ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, allow me to invite you to welcome our young, football champions of the world, as well as all the athletes who participate in the European Championship. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 137 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30015	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly states that meetings of the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. Today we started a session with 21 minutes late, and I believe this is a disdain for citizens of the Republic of Serbia from the majority who have 210 MPs. I accept your apology, Madam President, I can see that you are sorry, but I believe this is a demeaning of the citizens of Serbia by the ruling coalition that has 200 MPs, and it cannot be gathered to begin a session of 126 Members of Parliament and from day to day. So last session was the same situation. Please, the chairman, and the president is here to make an effort, to speak with the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr Babic, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, to make it possible to work and not waste time because of the fact that some problems exist in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30016	I agree in part with you, but according to the Rules of Procedure, the session is scheduled to begin at 10.00 p.m. Personally, I wish we had started on time, but I also have to say that I disagree with your finding that the intention of the majority's MPs is to disrespect the citizens of Serbia. It's a difficult qualification, but it's certainly desirable that we start on time. But it is your right to state whether or not to make a statement in the Voting Day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. ) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, Stefana Miladinović, Marjana Maras and Branko Ružic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Monday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on a common transit procedure; 3. Proposal for a law attesting the Convention on Simplification of Formality in Trade in Goods; 4. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (SEE-DPL Development and Restructuring Loan); 6. Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme between 2016 and 2020; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the conduct of paid jobs of family members in their diplomatic missions, consular representations or missions by international government organisations. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic, on the basis of Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2(2) and 2(2). 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1. Joint principle and uniform search on: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Simplification of Trade in Goods; - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Project for the Promotion of the Land Administration in Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; - Proposal for a Law on a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (A loan for the Development and Restructure of SOE-DPL; - Proposal for a Decision on the Official Statistics Programme for the period from 2016 to 2020; 2. Joint Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the abolition of visas for the citizens of the two countries; - Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the conduct of paid jobs of family members in their diplomatic missions, consular representations or missions by international government organisations. Does MP Veroljub Arsic want a word? No, I don't. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I put this proposal to the vote. Let's just get this over with, please. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 18 out of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30017	The Honorable Chairman, unfortunately, continued the practice of your colleagues and violated Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which states when a word is given in paragraph 3 which points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, gives the President the floor, which points to a violation of Article 1 immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed, with the presidents of the parliamentary groups having the advantage. I answered when you started reading the motion to unite the debate with a desire to indicate that the infringement of Rules of Procedure, Rule 157. You have now combined six points of the agenda by voting, which is five of the draft laws. I'm not going to count now and try to interpret the relationship between those laws. I'll wait for the Minister's presentation and let's hear about all the five laws, but the sixth point you've brought together is the decision, the proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme, and I'll read to you Article 157 as I see that there are questions – what's the problem? Item 2 says this - The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, and are conditional on each other because the solutions are connected, with each proposal being decided separately. So it's the law, not the law and the decision. The Rules of Procedure have been broken because you have combined six points of the agenda in this way. Point 6 - The proposal for a decision on the programme of official statistics cannot be merged in accordance with Article 157(2). Chairman, please, I don't know how we're gonna handle this right now. You will tell me, most of them voted. She could have voted today that Tuesday or that we started at 10.00 hours, not at 10.20 hours. These are facts and the Rules of Procedure have been broken, the first thing you voted for, and besides, because you didn't give me your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30018	Thank you. I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. I just couldn't stop reading the draft agenda and give you my word. It was normal for me to complete the procedure. Do you want in the voting day to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance, Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Natasa Kovacevic, Deputy Assistant Minister of Finance, Vesna Hreljac Ivanovic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Branko Drcelic, Deputy Director of the Public Debt Office at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Anastasija Tanja Djelic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Finance, Predrag Aleksic, Head of the Department of Finance, Sonja Nikolic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, and Jelena Simić, Senior Advisor at the Finance Ministry. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on proposals for actions from the agenda under points 1 to 6 and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of the MPs, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Articles 170 and 193. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure, Proposal for a Law on the Simplification of Trade in Goods, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A Project for the Promotion of the Land Administration in Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (A loan for the development and restructuring of SOE-DPL enterprises) and the Proposal for a Decision on the Programme of Official Statistics in the period from 2016 to 2020. Does the representative of the proposing Dr Dusan Vujovic, the finance minister, want a word? The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30019	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief. The main law in this package of laws and decisions is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. Under the law, these amendments propose three concrete amendments. One concerns electricity excises, and the other two concerns the exchange of excise duties on tobacco, i.e. tobacco products. The proposal is to tax the electricity tax on final consumption, to tax the fluids for charging electronic cigarettes and to tax the tobacco reprocessings that are heated in use, but not burned, so-called. non-burning tobacco, which still does not exist on the market, but for its introduction it is necessary to define excise duties. Let me first explain in more detail the first measure, which is the introduction of a excise on electrical energy. The reason for the adoption of the law is to achieve the objectives in the scope of excise policy, notably the gradual harmonisation with the excise policy introduced by EU rules, more specifically by Directive 2003/96 by 27 October 2003. This Directive provides for a whole range of products, the energy products to which the excise duty is introduced, and for the first time, we are now imposing a excise on electricity as part of harmonisation with this Directive. The second reason for this excise duty is to meet the commitments from the programme that we have defined ourselves, which is supported by the IMF programme, which is to balance, i.e. the convergence of electricity prices in Serbia with prices in the region, prices in Europe. To remind you, Serbia currently has a price of electricity, depending on the course applied to 4.9 or 4.97 dinars plus 1.06 dinars in all fiscal amounts. The first next country ahead of us, or up to us, is Bosnia with 6.9 dinars and 1.16 tax burdens, then Macedonia with 8.23, half the price, and the tax burdens, then Bulgaria with 7.46 and 1.49, means a total of 8.95 and then Montenegro with 8.67 prices and 1.21 tax burdens. And after the proposed increase in excise duty, Serbia would remain below and per tax burden and at the total electricity price by 20 to 25% at least. Why does it matter? Of course, we have brought this measure, not only because of the alignment with the parallel prices in the region, all other prices are priced on their own, by the force of the market, adjusted, but to provide a lasting basis for the development of the energy sector, to minimally burden the citizens. Our goal is for citizens to pay as little electricity as possible, but not to get into a situation where we don't have a basis for so-called. extended reproduction of EPS. Most importantly, these excise duties are used to release funds in the budget, to raise electricity prices that will provide both substitution and rational use of electricity, Serbia is the highest percentage of electricity use for heating, to boost austerity and substitution measures, to change electricity to all other sources available in sufficiently large quantities in Serbia and would have to be used much more. We originally planned to introduce this measure at the beginning of the year, but we tried to postpone it to allow citizens at least the end of the heating season and another period without increasing the price of electricity. According to the agreements reached in the government and supported by the IMF, for a three-year period, the decision was made to adapt the electricity price, including excise duties and price change, as part of the EPS restructuring programme, which was adopted in early June. The main result of this measure will be the increase in general revenues in the budget, which will fix so-called. The structural side of the budget. We've achieved very good results on the overall deficit since the beginning of the year. By the end of May, we had a deficit that was only 1.5%, 1.6% of GDP, with today we have a surplus in June, and we have a total deficit of only 18 billion dinars, as GDP 2000 is expected by the end of June, which is 0.8%, 0.9%. So the republican budget has a deficit of only 0.8%, 0.9% of GDP, which is five times less than in the same period last year. These results have also been achieved through permanent cost reductions and revenue increases, but also by temporary, so on. One-time measures. With this measure, we introduce one of the permanent sources of income, which will allow us to achieve the permanent objectives of this policy in the coming years, which is the return of all incomes paid from the budget, and salaries and pensions, to the level of trends after those adjustments that we had last October. It practically means that citizens will receive a reward for their sacrifice. We didn't have any other element in the budget besides the cuts in wages and pensions where we could start a consolidation programme, it's very important that people understand. The easiest thing to do would be to reduce a neutral item. Today, when we achieved these results, the easiest way to say was not to cut both salaries and pensions, but unfortunately it was not possible. The process has to start somewhere, and we started it very openly, in the most painful place today we already have the results. We have achieved a more than 75 billion deficit reduction since the beginning of the year, over 600m euros compared to what was conservatively projected. So this is the result that I think we deserve recognition and I think that we have offered the citizens of Serbia a reduction that will allow us to go on a sustainable path towards fiscal consolidation and economic recovery of this country. Secondly, very important, is the introduction of excise duties on these tobacco products that I have cited, which is also a step towards harmonisation with Europe and also allows for the products that are considered harmful to human health and the luxury of charging the relevant physics and thus provide sources of revenue in the budget. After the results achieved this year, we expect that the curved increase in social product debt will be reversed earlier in at least a year from what was designed by a programme adopted last fall. So, in 2016, and not 2017, we expect the beginning of the fall to reach a balanced level, i.e. to reach the criteria in both deficit and debt already during 2016/2017. years, not after that projected period. Here is an important element of debt. According to figures reported in the media and discussed, the debt rose from 31 December 2014 to 31 May 2015 from 22.8 billion, rounding up to 24.1 billion euros. This digit contains two elements. So 750m euros are equivalent to the exchange rate, and 523m euros is an increase in debt, which is only $42m in dollars, an increase in debt in Euros 210m, an increase in debt in dinars of 25 billion dinars and an increase in all other categories, including special draw rights, eight billion. Of which, only 25 billion dinars refer to covering the deficit, and all other categories refer to the withdrawal of so-called. project loans. Therefore, there are 100 million EPS that have been withdrawn and these are all project loans. Among other things, you will have two such loans on the agenda today as a subject of ratification. It's a relationship. The link is that the project loans in the 2015 budget are taxed with the amounts, purposes, etc., when they are realised they appear in our debt. Therefore, these debt sizes are activated by project loans that were approved several months or several years ago and when ratification and funds are withdrawn, only then appear as an integral part of the public debt. Additional information. With today, or on June 19th, that's the last piece of information we have, the debt situation is 23.6 billion euros, again with a notice that about 750 million are the rate difference, and the rest, slightly less than 500 million, are the shifts in debt. As far as the other laws contained in this package are concerned, I have already mentioned two project loans, one to the project that supports the reform of the catastra in Serbia, bringing the catastra into line with the latest world achievements, and in the way that the database is established, and in the way it is updated, both in the way it is managed, and in computer support, so there will be a complete electronic cadastre, as well as in the software for its monitoring. By implementing this project, we will bring Serbia, for relatively small funds, to the level of the most developed countries and the world's most orderly countries, from the point of view of the catastra. So we've been waiting for this change for years. There have been several attempts since 2000 to do so, and only now will this project lead to the final. I expect that this will significantly improve all processes, especially privatisation processes, restitution processes and all processes involving property legal relations. Without that, we can't move forward. You know very well that our structural reforms are late today because in almost every case of privatisation we have unresolved property legal relations that often concern the catastra. The introduction of order in this area is very important. The second loan that today is on the agenda for discussion and voting, I hope, on Wednesday, is a law that supports the restructuring of enterprises, so-called SOEDPL. So these are public enterprises, it's a structural loan to support the restructuring of public enterprises. The purpose and purpose of this loan is to support and finance the one-time restructuring costs of the company. As you know, these are the costs of legally and institutionally bringing these companies into a state that they can function on the market. Some of them will find new owners and find a new place on the market, and some of them will have to go through the bankruptcy process and find a solution in the bankruptcy process. In both cases, it is necessary to take commitments, to convert obligations into assets, i.e. to property. Third, to write off claims that are not charged. The supplemental component is the payment of workers' severances which in this process will urge them to step out of a working relationship and look for other jobs, i.e. to open their own companies. What's the advantage of this loan? It allows under very favourable funding conditions to first address all structural issues related to privatisation and bankruptcy processes, and secondly to transfer the financial burden to the future in five to seven years. So our plan is, and we take this risk very openly, to charge these loans to the current budget of these one-time costs and to transfer them from the beginning in five, six or seven years, and we finance it for the next 15 or 20 years. So, we accept this obligation to not only complete these processes, but then have one regulated economy that will function normally, open jobs and have economic work so that it can finance these costs in the future. So, we don't get into these loans and these responsibilities without knowing that these are obligations for the future, and above all, the obligation to carry out those structural reforms that we are carrying out today to the end, to have an effect. It's not the purpose of a catastra to spend millions on a cadastre, and after that, we have the process of issuing building permits or the process of solving property-legal relations as it was in the past. The two laws that go in the package here, according to our proposal in the package, are two laws concerning simplification of trade, simplification of transit, simplification of all processes of exchange with countries in the neighbourhood and all other countries. These are laws that have long been ready for discussion, but we were just waiting to bring them together, because it would not be rational for these laws to be discussed individually in the congregation. So these laws are sitting there waiting for the moment to join the larger laws we've passed today. I'm listening to your procedural debate, and I can't believe our intention to economically discuss all these laws is interpreted as some kind of conspiracy or desire to avoid a debate. On the contrary, it would be completely illogical to discuss small laws, small changes in separate discussions. Then the objection would be why we call on the Assembly to discuss a law that has two sides or three members change. This is how we're going to talk about a package of laws that are all in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. Finally, the official statistics programme is something that has been waiting years to be adopted. Serbia is a country that once had one of the most qualitative statistics and I can boast that I was a valuable associate at the Institute of Statistics, the Federal Bureau of Statistics, where 20 and a few years ago we had a modeling and a general analysis of the data that was on the world level. Today in statistics after all the integrations we are lagging behind. This programme needs our statistics to return to where it has been, to respect all the obligations we have made on ourselves, both in relation to Eurostat and in relation to the standards we have committed to the Fund. So general and special rules for the dissemination of statistical data, i.e. the dissemination of statistical data. It needs to ensure better quality economic decisions, it needs to provide a better analysis of these data and more reliable sources for you and for us, for all those in this process. Everyone in the world has statistics that are good enough not only to evaluate past events but also to project future events. We have moved on to a new method of statistics which, of course, is based on samples and no longer on the old method of statistics of the material system of production. And therefore, these improvements are necessary for statistics to catch up with the world, to be reliable for us and for all the countries that expect us to do this. These are, among other things, obligations towards the EU, and we have very complex obligations that we have accepted on ourselves so-called. a report on the economic reform programme, which we submitted to the European Commission in January, which we defended in Brussels on 12 May and very successfully. A set of measures, from data to modeling, to designing, analysis and monitoring of everything that happens in the public sector, including the budget, is something that connects all these laws into one whole. Two last laws, visas for Moldova and permits with Finland, were added for the effective use of your time. Thank you very much. I expect that there will be questions and that we will have the opportunity to answer each of your questions in more detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30020	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30021	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, you were not present, Mr Minister, at the meeting of the Finance Committee, where I asked the Ministry's representative to withdraw this bill, since what it says in this proposal is not at all in line with the reasoning we received. We have one law today, I'm talking about excises, so, which introduces electricity excises, and that's a law that will allow over five billion taxpayers' money to come into the state budget. For days, we've been hearing about how great the results of our fiscal policy are, how do we have a reduced deficit, and we can't hear who's the most responsible for who's contributed most to the deficit being that way? Mr. Minister, you didn't say, but I will say - Serbian citizens, because someone else boasts of what the citizens deserve. How? By increasing the first VAT, you've raised taxes on property, various taxes, I'm not talking about you personally, I'm talking about previous Minister Lazar Krstic, thus filling the budget has increased drastically. But on the other hand, the state was either very little savings. This is also evidenced by this proposal of the Excise Act. You are proposing, under the pretext of harmonising with EU directives, the introduction of electricity excises by taxing final consumption. Here is an EU directive dealing with electricity excises by taxation, and it says excises are introduced in a megawatt hour, half-euro, which would be a minimum excise, and in that amount is usually introduced where they are. Not even all EU member states have introduced these excise duties. You are trying to explain to us that we are more Europe than everyone else, both from Hungary and Croatia. Croatia has no electricity excises, but its citizens have significantly higher salaries than Serbian citizens. Also, there are 2.7 euros per megawatt hour in Hungary. That's three times lower than the excise you're proposing today to the citizens of Serbia. How many times is the average salary in Hungary higher than in Serbia? Why didn't you just tell us the worst examples? When you talk about the success of fiscal policy and say that the deficit has been reduced, why don't you say that the net exports in the first quarter have been reduced as well? Where are the results of the economy? They're not spoken of, but that's why citizens are still asked to bend their spines. Have you wondered how citizens with reduced salaries and pensions can pay new bills for electricity? How did you apply the EU Directive? You have applied it to be drastic for citizens and to further destroy the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, which the disastrous management has for three years brought into a state that will be unembarkable, Mr. Minister. You did not say that Serbia's Elektroprivreda has a billion euros in unguaranteed credit. They borrowed so much without your consent, while paying dividends to Serbia's budget through the Insurance Agency. Is that normal? Where does this reformed company work? How did the reforms take place in the company? Reforms started by moving branches from central Serbia and Vojvodina to Belgrade. It's not reform. These are not reforms that will bring this company in a position to be profitable and to pay real profits. The company notes by the auditor that the census reduced the value of its assets and thus reduced its liabilities by six billion and thus generates profits. That's, by the way, you're losing, and you know it, and they're paying the dividend in the budget, while Serbia's citizens are being charged excise tax. What do they get for that excise? What's the excise charge? You're an economist. We charge excise on final consumption. What's on that end-of-use account besides electricity? So we are a miracle financially, Serbia, which will charge the excise on the costs of maintaining the system, say, at manipulative costs. We'll charge the excise on that. You know, Mr. Minister, what is the excise charge? Your associates said it was tax. Well, you can say, but you should pay. It is up to the citizens of Serbia, to whom you have reduced wages and pensions and to boast about the reduced deficits they have made possible, to praise that success, they should pay for this and to withstand all of these reforms that cannot be affected by those that are meant to hit -- a party state, a party state that costs and the same citizens millions, party management, and the Elektroprivred and other businesses. Then we have a fictitious profit, so we're going to take a loan and invest in Serbia's budget some funds, we have non-tax revenues, and we're going to brag that it's a huge success, until the next election, and then it's going to be different. You said it was originally planned to introduce the excise duty at the beginning of the year, Mr. Minister. We originally listened to all sorts of other suggestions. Originally, Mr. Antic said that no consideration was given to the introduction of excise duties, he said in November of last year, because he said it was only media speculation and that it would not do the citizens any good. Then another, let me say, announcement, as you said, the original announcement that was planned, but it wasn't accomplished, it's 20 percent worth of the price. The former energy minister, now the minister of infrastructure, said in 2011 -- electricity will be cheaper by 20%. Then when we MPs asked here, when she came here and sat in your seat, why she didn't cheape the electricity as promised, she said – that's what the Energy Agency is asking. So it is clear that when something needs to be cheap or collected, the Serbian government wonders. This proposal that you are defending in the Serbian Parliament today is fully evidence that nothing means any request from citizens, their request or the request of the public opinion media to take care of socially endangered citizens. There's nothing. There are only fossils, only phrases about reforms that really aren't implemented, but because when it comes to reforming the citizens' pocket, there's always the ruling majority and the power that at all costs wants to show itself in the best light, but it only works in the media, nowhere else in real life you can really see it. Here, one more thing, to say, was the promise and what you say was planned, but obviously it also didn't happen, and these were also mentioned by Minister Mihajlovic, the first social map, and the new electricity and gas prices. There, and that was said to be how citizens live, how they can pay those obligations, and then to make a budget from which these citizens, or their spending, will be financed. None of this has really been achieved, and what you have proposed today in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to say is one mess. Indeed, I think you should withdraw this proposal. I call on fellow MPs not to vote for this, because indeed the citizens of Serbia can no longer stand it. I don't know if you have information, but Serbia is empty, citizens are going abroad, they can't take this anymore, and we're not saying this from the position of the opposition party's MPs, this is really a real picture where in central Serbia, entrepreneurs are barely making ends meet, they're barely able to survive, they're shutting down the shops. And there's no such thing as optimism that's going to get better. That's what the real sector's results say that you haven't paid any attention to. You didn't even look back on it, and you were talking about how great we are about the state's duties and how today we're going to be in charge of some project stuff. What exactly do we owe ourselves when it comes to the 90 million loan agreement for the restructuring of the public sector? We haven't heard any details from you, please tell us. Also, 50m euros, I also voted against the Finance Committee to improve the work of the catastra. Well, here we've been listening for three years to reform and the Minister of State Administration and how we're going to do it with our own forces and how we can do it all, how we have experts, how we don't need any new loan, how we don't need anything new to do. It's just that the order needs to be seduced, as we've led order into the Building Law, so here, the building is booming, everything is booming, and everything is great, and it's just not seen in the citizens' pockets, they don't see benefit except for the national frequencies that control power, there's no progress in other places. If we have such a good result in income growth, in expectations when it comes to budget deficits, why don't you rebalance. Do a budget rebalance, put this catastra reform into rebalancing, so let's finance ourselves. Why do we borrow if we're doing so great? Why the new $140 million debt? I've heard from my colleagues on the board, too, that these aren't actually new debts. The fact that you said it was 24.1 billion, that it didn't actually increase the debt, that it actually decreased. My colleague explained to me that there was so much growth in interest in the meantime that this debt exploded and that you didn't take anything else from the loans, you were just returning those old interest loans that someone else was borrowing. It's perfectly clear that it's one nonsensus, it's not even on joke level. Today we have a proposal to owe another 140 million. You told us that we borrowed 25 billion to pay back the deficit, that the rest didn't go to finance the deficit. This is certainly good, but the result is not a result of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the result of the savings of citizens to whom you cut salaries and pensions, increased VAT by 2%, introduced higher property taxes, introduced electricity excises now, thus increasing the prices of various taxis. That's what contributed to that result, not the Serbian government. The Serbian government has done nothing. The government of Serbia and its leader, the prime minister, just like to speak nicely in the media, like to keep on showing that reality as it is not, but essentially the only ones who suffer because of these reforms are citizens of Serbia and will suffer as long as this incompetent government leads the country will suffer and these proposals will arrive in the National Assembly, which will concern only the suffering of citizens and ways to take money out of their pockets and to finance some of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the directors of public enterprises that are not reformed, which are big consumers of public resources, resources that are less and less every year, and I have talked about EPS, and this situation is with others and with Serbia gas with Telekom and others. Does this policy relating to the EPS mean that you are preparing to privatise the company as you wish to do with Telekom. That someone who would get a little deep the way you treat the EPS can say that. The only way to prepare this company for privatisation, the only reason for the reforms that are now being implemented, is that all the businesses of Elektroprivred are combined into one to sell more easily. No other benefit will exist because all positions remain, all wages remain, all party functions remain, nothing changes, there is no saving. But that's why citizens are going to save, to pay for a excise duty they don't pay anywhere in Europe, although in many countries there is an electricity excise in Europe, I'm talking about EU members, it's not at this level. It's not because there's no excise charge on unnecessary costs, on manipulative costs, because it would probably be a precedent if anyone suggested that the manipulative costs of the electro-priority and the transfer of excise payments would be paid by the gunmen. That's really outrageous. I think you should withdraw this proposal, put it all in an ad act and try to find another way to make savings. To make savings in both the Elektroprivred and the state and the government, because it is clear that all those promises about these savings and savings are false, to save only citizens. When it comes to saving the government, it only comes to the media, and that never realising such savings comes except for the demagogue, the populist way to be on national frequencies, but never realistically and never through legal proposals. I think it is increasingly clear to the citizens of Serbia and that for this reason they really don't see the perspective, because a government that doesn't want to hear any message from citizens is a government that doesn't want to be good enough for this country, does not want problems to be solved realistically. You won't get anything of this. I saw the explanation that it would be said that in an effective way to secure the payment of five and a half billion in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it would make a significant contribution to the budget. Well, they won't, because citizens are already lagging behind in the payments of their liabilities and are not able to service what the state is spending, what irresponsible government officials are spending. Sixty thousand are most likely to increase the number of employees in the state administration in the last three years, and this is also paid today by citizens of Serbia, and then, under the pretext of obligations imposed by the IMF, introduce new and new taxes that turn the state into a parafiscal large apparatus that looks at all possible ways to get citizens' hands in the pocket. What are good examples? Good examples were some institutions that were also effective, worked well and then two or three years ago began introducing new obligations for citizens and taxpayers and turned, from institutions that were effective in parafiscal institutions, which create parafiscal burdens and only inflict damage on citizens and businesses. None of them citizens or businesses can win. They're just losses, and they're just distractions that make it impossible for them to function and make it impossible for businesses to achieve a good result. You say the deficit is down to 0.8 or 0.9%. You didn't say that realisation is investment, you didn't say that investments have the most incomparable worst realisation in the last ten years. No matter how hard the minister in charge tried to say that, that was winter, so it wasn't season, so there was winter last year and last year, it was winter for the last ten years, but still the worst realisation of investments this year. No tax revenues, no next year. Now, Elektroprivreda was able to borrow, so you paid off the dividend, and it's probably similar with other companies. It won't be next year, you'll bring these companies into a situation they won't be able to get out of. The state will have to help them or sell them, which is a more realistic scenario, given your latest approach, neoliberal that everything needs to be sold out and should be done as efficiently as possible. If it is possible, without pensions and without wages, that everything is very effective, that it costs nothing, that there is no right for citizens, that there is only their right and obligation to pay the state what is imposed. I think you should withdraw this proposal. The Democratic Party will never vote for him. We believe that this is how you are destroying the standard of living of citizens and destroying public enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30022	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30023	I thank you for being very exhaustive, but I still feel like a heterogeneous exposure. I don't want to get into controversy about things that aren't the subject of today's law and today's discussion. Let me just comment on those parts that apply to this law. First, we didn't increase VAT at all, property tax levels at all, it's an instrument of local government. Therefore, it is seen at the level of the general state, it is not seen at all at the level of the Republic budget that we are discussing in this House. So these are completely unrelated things. They shall have maximum rates at the level of the Republic and, within that framework, determine their local rates. Therefore, there are taxes delegated to them at local level. This is a tax that is the original source of local self-government income and it only respects the frameworks that are given. Therefore, it does not affect at all, only by figures, so Serbia currently has a price of electricity of 4.90 dinars going to EPS, and 1.06 dinars goes to fiscus, total. For the sake of comparison, Croatia mentioned has 10.13 dinars Elektroprivredi hrvatska and 3.11 dinar fiscus. After this increase in excise duty with us, it's only the result. Citizens pay only dinars, pay no political flossules, especially false accusations. Citizens will pay 0.36 dinars more for this excise. Therefore, without an increase in the price going to the EPS, citizens will pay 1.42 dinars more. So it's going to be a new fiscous total in electricity. That's what citizens pay for, at the level of the monthly account. Because everyone chooses to charge something, Serbia's Elektroprivreda because it has consumption very different from 100 kilowatts to tens of thousands of kilowatts a month, it charges the net especially as a fixed cost, since it has to maintain a network, electrics, etc. in all consumers, it thus decided to charge one fixed price and variable price, at the framework of the variable price depends on the tariff, etc. nighttime, daytime etc. What's important is that when all of that is added up, that's the price of electricity, when all of that is added up and divided by the number of kilowatts, that's the average cost of kilowatts. Some things are charged fixed, actually it was like the phone, like everything else, you have a fixed monthly amount, so then you pay after talking, or you have a certain number of conversations, like they have different others. Nothing's funny. It's so everywhere in the world. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place; It is tragic. ) There are 30 years at least in Serbia. So no one changed that. The tariff system in Serbia has not been changed. This increase raises the price of electricity by 0.36 dinars, at the level of the average consumer who pays monthly in Serbia 2,640 dinars per month and a half. This will be an increase of 325 dinars, combined and excise and an increase in electricity prices. It's one and a half packs of cigarettes a month. It's psychological, I think it's a cost for people, I think it'd be better if we didn't have to raise prices and excises, but it's very little compared to everything else. One and a half pack of cigarettes, that's one cigarette a day. If you think it's an expression of disrespect to the people or that it's a force on the fairies, I disagree with you. Another important thing, income. This year, VAT is 5.9% higher compared to the same period last year, and social product is smaller. It's the same nominally, realistically smaller. So we're getting increased discipline, VAT payments. Excises are 7.7% higher due to better law enforcement, due to the will to charge. It's the same base. At the investment. Investments are slower than we planned, they're slower than the previous years. The reasons we're trying to find and find out, from planning to realising. Within that part of the investments in the Republic's budget, that's 50 billion, that's the budget that you approved. It's spent 10 billion. Less is spent significantly on land expropriation and investment in so-called supplies and fuel and everything else. In fixed-fund investments, what we call real investments, most of these 10 billion went into real investment. At the level of the general state, and then except for the republic's budget includes the locale, both the duchy and the roads and the corridors and all other sources of investment and the project financing that we were just talking about, 20 billion out of 123 billion were spent. That's one-sixth about. I'm sorry, 20% is spent. So 25 billion or 20%. In particular, the project loans spent 34%, only a few percent less than the plan, and 37% were spent in the corridor. So that's where things happen almost as planned. At least it's implemented through the budget. Why? We need to find a reason. One reason is that late applications for payment of that part of the budget are usually delayed due to administration, because of evidence, approval of positions etc. But these are the sums of a few dozen billion most since the beginning of the year, and our savings are at 75-80 billion. I must remind you that the current is exchangeable as well as any other good we have. What we spend in the country cannot be exported and what we spend in the country is in Serbia today, I tell you – 30% below the first next country in the region, and even 50% lower than what Croatia is paying for here. As far as economic growth is concerned. You know that last year we had a lot of grim growth projections, and then there was a flood and growth in the third quarter last year caused, primarily by floods falling to minus 3.7%. If you're looking at quarterly dynamics, there's a slight recovery of growth, but not enough. For what? The projections have been carried out. The first initial projections were that growth in this year would be minus 0.5%, so it was raised to zero percent. Now we're talking plus 0.2 plus 0.5. I think we have a lot of unreliable models and predictions and everything else so we can swear, but the fact is that it's all so-called. The residual size is positive everywhere. So everybody says -- this is because of more favourable international flows, this is because of a variety of other favourable flows. If what we expect is realised, which is to increase Smeder's production, to provide sources of raw materials for so-called. a chemical complex, to find solutions for large enterprises and finally get rid of these 500 companies that take resources, and hardly produce anything. I expect that growth in this year can become positive, but more importantly, to start a positive economic growth trajectory in the next five-year period. If you look at the results here, I'm not trying to be a politician at all, not at all, until 2005, we had growth rates of five and a half to 6%, but if you look at the sources of growth, it was exclusively, so-called "aggregate demand" fixed from external sources. It's good, but what was bad is that it's unsustainable, it's increased debt and now over these interest rates we pay it, it's increased the external deficit, and it's led us to a big borrowing situation, and that's what's worst of all, produced relatively small effects in the domestic economy, because demand is such that it's asked for a lot of products from imports, which after 15 years of restrictions and normal. People wanted to buy imported televisions, import cars, clothes, etc. We are now in a situation where domestic demand is much better. I am pleased that the reduction in wages and pensions in the public sector to that extent is compensated by the growth of wages in the private sector, that at the level of the first four months there is no reduction in neither the wage tax nor the reduction in salaries for social and pension insurance. People say it's part of getting out of the gray economy, so be it, and that's good. But the fact is, there is no restrictive fact of the reduction in wages and pensions to the overall demand. We even have data on the growth of 3.5%, the growing processing industry with carbon and power outages. So that's for the first three months. So these are signs that are not for applause, but are good signs, there's a resuscitation and there's a twist. I expect that in combination with all that we have to do, because it's not just about the money that's paid, it's about what ends. We have huge funds that are approved and not used. So out of 4.9 billion approved total project loans, we used only 1.2 billion, 3.7 billion waiting to be used, hopefully productively, effectively, i.e. by achieving targets and effective cost ratios to create jobs, increase growth and do everything we all agree on. We should watch that part that's not party-colored, where all parties, where all the participants of this process and all the citizens agree. Finally, allow me a comment. We learned on Friday that all the results we submitted for execution during the first quarter of the structural measures were accepted with June 1st and that the report on the implementation of the programme, which the fund supports, will be accepted without discussion on June 26th. So there are a whole series of difficult measures to do, and I have to go back here and say a few notes about the EPS. The EPS has been deliberately delayed, changes in all things until we have reached one agreed program, so-called. ‘administrative, corporate, production, institutional and economic coordination’ of the EPS. It's corporate that asked to be with 13 so-called. ‘unit’ shall be reduced to 2-3. Six hundred directors were in the EPS, even if they will remain employed, at least there will be no more fixed costs, that each will have its own independent office, etc. Those parts that concern political divisions, whether a distribution unit is in a political unit or not, I would leave it to a political debate. The economic debate requires all of this to be conducted in as few optimal units as possible. It is important for us that the EPS operate efficiently, the EPS manages billions of social resources and state resources today, social ones, manages coal reserves, manages potentials that can bring billions into the future. As you know, this money that we're releasing, just to remind you of one practical side, "The Bones" is now being negotiated, that's 700 million that the state has to or 600, which the state has to guarantee. The guarantee is being made to us as an increase in debt. If we don't free ourselves of space for that, I don't know who else can. Serbia's electricity company is a state-owned company that spends capital expenditure, exclusively realises either through the state or with 99% state aid. So, these relationships you're talking about, it's not about spilling any funds to get the state's effects on better governance of the EPS. Without excise duties, it should wait at least a year and a half. Suppose, today we introduce the effects, they will be partly shown in this year, and mostly in 2016. This will be presented only in the balance sheet of success until June 2017 and will be available for distribution only in November 2017, a month before the end of this programme. So there are delayed effects so large that they have to look for measures. I have to point out, I really don't want to lecture anyone, but these are structural measures that are different from one-time measures, and that's where we fully agree. I don't brag at all about one-time measures, reducing capital expenditure, about ten billion, exactly increases success, but just an effect, let me tell you one thing, only the dollar-enhancing effect has produced 26.4% in exchange for the 200 million dollars we've paid since the beginning of January. We're running it for 110 dinars in our books, and we paid those dollars for 87 dinars in August last year. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What were you taking dollars for? What? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: What were you taking dollars when everyone knew... ) It's, let me tell you, very simply, I don't have the exact data here right now, the dollar debt grew the most in the period 2007-2012. So he came in, just to tell you the figures, that's very important, he grew from 1.8 to 5.9 billion in that period. From 2012 to today, it has grown by only three billion, one of which has remained unexpended, of which we are just paying for these loans. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No. ) No, well, that's the data, please, I'll give you the data and you'll look at it. So 5.7 billion were in debt in dollars between 2007 and today, and these were Eurobonds of missions, but in dollars. Who then decided that a dollar is the best currency for borrowing and that it is the most in the mood for borrowing, it is a matter of special discussion. We inherited the condition it is. Since we inherited it, debt in dollars has increased everything for this billion, of which we spent only 200 million, 800 million is still in liquid reserves, that's the bill, you know, I don't know what else to tell you. We're in debt in dollars of 2% per 10 years, and previous debts were in dollars of five points something to seven points something percent. That's not what I did, so I can't accept responsibility, we're trying to do what we can in the context of what we can do. If you're long, then don't get lost in the exchange rate because it's really not a real amount of debt. The real amount of debt is 8.8 billion dollars, 9.7 billion euros and 613 billion dinars, that's debt. How are you going to add that up if you translate it into dollars, it's going to be much less. If you translate into Euros or dinars, it will be much more, but in reality nothing has changed. What matters is, that's what I was going to say, that this deficit hides an increased cost of 20 percent of this 200 million, because we didn't pay it at that price. So we're running a 110 dollar-by- 110 in expenditures, and we bought it at 87 last year, you ratified it. Thank you. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the city, reporting for word? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30024	Mr. Jovanovic, are you looking for a replica? (John Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. I don't see the basis of Jovanovic. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place: I was misread. I can't hear you, I'll give you my word just to hear you. I'm interested in the basics?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30025	Will you give me or won't you give me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30026	I'm telling you, I don't see a basis for replication. Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30027	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina believe that this is another measure that will punish citizens and citizens of Vojvodina the most, given that they have paid the most regularly for electricity and I am pleased that Mr. Minister that you have mentioned an economic debate concerning the reorganisation of the EPS, which is happening these very days, because since July 1st, Elektro Vojvodina ceases to exist. This very economic debate is what we insisted on, because when you look at the profit of Elektro Vojvodina compared to EDB, which is 2.1 billion dinars and the loss of the EDB of three billion and the loss of the entire EPS. Then on these economic categories, we will be able to talk about our insistence that "Electrovodina" continues to exist because it is most modern, because it is most invested in both human resources and in the distribution network and citizens pay their obligations most regularly. That is why we insisted that the EPS reorganisation is now resting on political, that it is a political category. What we have been talking about for many years, which is that Serbia is neither a capitalist system nor a socialist, nor a democracy, nor a dictatorship, but we live in a system called bureaucratic centralism. When it comes to reforming the fiscal system and budgetary consolidation, against which we, of course, are no one to participate in the political life of Serbia, we hoped that the expenditure side of the budget would be taken into account, or that there would be some rationalisation, concerning the expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's budget, but then we would have to wonder what about the railways, what about the Ways of Serbia, what about Serbia, what about the end and the EPS, which is why the airport "Er Serbia" write off claims, or debts, so it makes it profitable, but in that, I say, the dark villa must not touch anyone. Then again, we come to the fact that the Belgrade budget adjectives are being fed again by subsequent revenues, which is impossible. We will never be able to bring order into our finances for the simple reason that on the bulky side of the budget we have a series of non-transparent outflows and citizens experience any new imposition, excise or tax as a harrassor, not as a tax. We've repeatedly pointed out that when you're a taxpayer, you want to know in a transparent way how the funds you pay are poured out, whether it's for roads, for schools, for hospitals, for pensions, or for a burglary, which means you have to pay to avoid the sanctions, and as money goes, it's none of your business. I think we live in a system like this today. When we talk about excises, it's an even sadder situation, because we live in a reverse economy. Much of the budget revenue just comes from excises, which means the state wouldn't have anything to live in if citizens didn't smoke, drink alcohol, gamble, and now they're energy-inefficient. What kind of system of values do we promote in this country when the state lives exactly from excises on these things? Of course, it's all over the world, but we need to get the budget into a situation where excise revenues won't play as significant a role as they do today. By introducing additional electricity excises, you are practically promoting, i.e. the budget directly depends on energy inefficient consumers. The bigger the consumption, the bigger the revenue in the budget. Of course, some other things could have been done, but we're going back to the fact that in some parts of our country, electricity charge is 30, 40, 50%. There's 90% in Vojvodina. The Elektroprivreda of Serbia has budgeted 430m dinars this year for some consultants, etc. I think a lot of other things could have been done before it came to increasing electricity excises, and it concerns primarily rationalization within the EPS. What could have been done in the Republic of Serbia's budget? They're going to repeat what we've been saying for a long time, ore rent. We don't see any reason why an agreement with the Russian Federation has not been redefined, instead of representatives of the NIS leg opening doors in the ministry, I think there's a way to finally pay the mining rent in the way they do in Russia's home country. We suggested taxing offshore ownership of enterprises. We proposed that order be put in place for the issue, or bidding of state land. We have suggested that a law be passed on the origin of the property, and we see no reason why we have private brokers importing gas into our country. These are all some of the ways that we could contribute to the introduction of fiscal consolidation and greater revenues into our budget, and that this is not in such a very regressive way. Our tax system is regressive, no matter how much you earn, or how little you earn, the tax rate is higher this way, it's another one of these measures, because the more you earn in Serbia, the less tax you pay. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to apply the measure linearly and to tax everything, no matter how much income they have. As LSV, we will not vote in favour of this bill, and we are more strongly opposed to this measure for the reasons that I have stated, concerning both the socio-hazarded groups within our society and citizens and the citizens of Vojvodina, who will again, after the shameful abolition of Elektrovodina, again, be exposed to the extent where they will pay the greatest burden so-called "Electrovodina". Tax consolidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30028	Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Kružević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30029	Thank you. Dear Minister Vujovic, with his associates, fellow MPs, at the very beginning to say that JS will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, and as all my predecessors have looked most at the law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, and I will follow that trend, because somehow the most important thing is to say. The law provided for in its amendments and amendments provides for changes relating to electricity, electronic cigarettes, non-burning tobacco and cigarettes and alcoholic beverages from imports sold in diplomatic and consular offices. As we know, fiscal consolidation was one of the conditions to implement and sign an agreement with the IMF, which has a value of 1.2 billion euros. It might not be too bad to mention that we might not have entered into that arrangement if we had found a situation that was slightly better financially for our country. Among other things, the legislation we adopt and change should be one harmonisation of our country's excise policy with the EU's excise policy. As regards electricity itself, which, as I heard from my predecessors, is somehow the most painful point, electricity excise is 7.5%, 7.5%, which refers to the total value of electricity that reaches the final consumer, which is clearly calculated by a specific calculation methodology, which includes all costs that go towards the final customer. What is well noted is that in some cases this electricity excise duty is not accounted for, and these are the cases in the production of electricity used for electricity used in the production itself, the electricity that goes towards consular offices and international organisations for which there are special agreements signed by our country. What is very important to say is that the electricity consumption on the surface is also not burdened with excise duty, and when we have a situation to listen to criticisms on this account, it might not be bad to say some positive things about our country in relation to, at least, the environment, and I can also say about the EU. Thus, electricity excises have mostly all Western European countries. It is not currently Hungary, Croatia, Bulgaria, Great Britain, Cyprus, Latvia and Slovakia. The minimum amount of excise duty in the EU, according to customers in the economy, 0.5 euros per megawatt hour, i.e. to translate, is about five dinars per kilowatt hour spent, and for households and non-profits is one euro per megawatt hour, i.e. ten dinars per kilowatt hour spent in the household, which, you will agree with me, is a higher price than the price of kilowatt hours we pay when we spend, and there is only a excise price that is twice as high as our price. As you announced with Energy Minister Aleksandar Antic, electricity will accumulate by 12%. These 12% is the aggregate value of excise and electricity collection by the EPS, which should, of course, be noted that citizens are not afraid and that someone does not abuse it that even the electricity collection will go to an excise rate of 7.5%. This collection, through excise duty, which so heavily burdens household finances, amounts to 0.36 dinars, as regards excise duties, and 1.42 dinars as regards the increase in EPS electricity. As a former EPS worker, I can tell you that these are miserable sums for maintaining the system and a miserable flow of money that can affect, and I don't know how, to increase the reliability of the supply of electricity, and in particular not to allocate from these funds funds that will be used to build some new power facilities. Since the situation is the way it is, I certainly want to welcome your efforts to ensure that the collection is not greater and that the burden of citizens' budgets is not more serious, and in the figure, it is approximately that at the expense of 2,500 dinars, the price of that bill and the electricity spent will be increased by 300 dinars. As for the comparison of the price with the prices in the region, and no one talked about this either, 15% after the collection we will have lower electricity than in Macedonia and 50% will have a lower value of electricity than in Croatia and Montenegro. Speaking of salaries, why aren't our salaries like in Europe, with countries with which we compare the level of excise duty? Here, we can compare with Macedonia, Montenegro, Croatia, where we will eventually have a much lower price, and in Montenegro and Croatia we will have a 50% lower price paid by the citizens of the two countries. It is also very important to note, and what I have not heard from my predecessors, is that the increase does not apply to the most socially vulnerable, for which the government has provided six million euros in budget this year, so that they will count on free kilowatts from 120 to 250 kilowatt hours per month and free heating over heat and gas. These are the same measures we must greet. The price of electricity without tax on added value for households will be 6.1 dinar for the rolling hour, and for the industry 5.84 dinars. If we are talking about some positive effects of this law, we should certainly say that we will have an increase in tax revenues of 17 billion dinars and we will have a reduction in electricity consumption, a more rational consumption of electricity, which will certainly preserve the supply of fossil energy that we have in Serbia. Speaking of charging the budget by excises, I would like to point out that European and world budgets are mostly filled with excises from oil derivatives, cigarettes and alcohol. Speaking of which, I think there may have been more space in this indicated than in the current, but that can be talked about in some broader form. Speaking of cigarettes, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law relating to electronic cigarettes tells us that it will be taxed, i.e. that excise duty will cover something that has not been often in our free sale so far, which is called the liquid for filling electronic cigarettes and will amount to four dinars per milliliters of liquid. In Europe alone, Italy and Portugal have introduced this type of excise duty and in these countries the excise duty is in particular in Italy, 0.3 euros, and in Portugal 0.6 euros, far above what we are introducing in Serbia, and this excise will lead to an increase in revenues at an annual level of around 200 million dinars. Also, another new product is being introduced into the market of the Republic of Serbia, which is a non-burning tobacco, that is, chewing tobacco, sniffing tobacco, orally used tobacco. What is generally good is that the state will benefit from traffic and this type of goods. What I'd like to draw your attention to, Mr. Minister, to express some kind of warning is exactly the excises that apply to alcoholic beverages. In this law, we had only the part that relates to the sale of diplomatic and consular representations. I don't know if you know that the excise stamp used on alcoholic beverages looks identical to the bottle of one liter of alcohol and a bottle of 0.05 liters. Why am I telling you this? Because the price of these excise stamps is about 100 to 300 dinars. Roughly, from one euro to three euros and is charged by quantity. When you buy an excise stamp for a bottle that is 0.05 liters, or 20 liters, you pay the 20th part of that price. In particular, if we have some imported whiskey, as an example, where we have an excise duty against the state on a literate bottle, i.e. a liter of that drink, we need to pay three euros, we have a huge abuse and disqualification of all those businessmen who produce alcoholic beverages in our country and who work in accordance with the law and buy excise stamps in that amount, i.e. the value of how much the packaging of the bottle they sell. You have the abuse to label that same bottle with an excise charge that's 20 times less paid. Therefore, here is perhaps one suggestion from us from the Single Serbia parliamentary group, it might not be bad to at least paint that excise stamp to change, so that we can get into a situation to prevent this banal type of abuse that is certainly happening. I would like to point out once again, as far as the Single Serbia parliamentary group is concerned, we will support these laws in the voting day. We join our fellow Members of the Assembly and the chairman in congratulating young footballers at the World Cup and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30030	Thank you, colleague Kruževic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30031	Thank you very much for the discussion and for this specific note about excise stamps. We'll check it out one more time. As far as I know, they pay excise stamps by number, pay a fixed price in dinars, by number, but the excise cut is determined on the basis of production data. So if he produced it, I don't know how many thousand hectolitres, he's paying for so much excise, even though he's nice the same stamps. Maybe it's not a bad idea for stamps to differ, although it would complicate things for them, because then they have to buy different stamps. Do you understand? He is in debt based on production data and the moment that a liter of alcohol left production, at the moment an excise obligation appeared to him, and the fact that he is putting an equal stamp on it just means that it has passed the process of determining the excise. You might want to think about it, not having a dilemma, that a liter of whiskey stamps is different from the one on the plum bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30032	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30033	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman. Mr. Minister, it was interesting to listen to your presentation, the explanation of this great law as you called it, waiting to enter into the debate, the great law of the 14th point on the amendment and addition of the Excise Act, to continue and put into debate these little laws that look like this. They have 300, 400 pages, which should facilitate trade, transit procedures and things like that. And of course, there are not many words in the debate on these other points as well as on this new debt of over 120m euros. We're talking almost exclusively all the time about electricity excises because it's something that all Serbian citizens will feel in their pocket and then you tried to explain it. I've written some things here that require an increase in electricity prices to restore the EPS. That's what you said, we're talking about excises today, excises will go into the budget, they won't come to the EPS at all, whether and how much the EPS price will be increased we'll see. There's something you and Minister Antic said, but there's not much to be trusted. Whether it's going to be 12% or 12.5% at the end, or I don't know how long it's going to be when you add up the electricity price to the excise, so you add VAT, how many citizens exactly per wallet, in percent we don't know. You gave one interesting bill that the average bill would be more than 325 dinars, you said it was a pack, a pack and a half, I'm not a cigar smoker, I don't know, you said one cigarette a day. Perhaps this measure is to introduce electricity excises within these other excise duties to reduce the number of smokers in Serbia. If you'd said so eventually, we might have gotten some support. But that's not the point, because there are people who don't smoke, like me, now I'm gonna be able to buy four ice creams less for my kids a month. That's about 325 dinars, so much I'm going to have to give up less, but for me it's a minor problem, there are citizens who are and that's a very good expression for the first time I've heard from you today, there's been an adjustment of wages and pensions. That's what you called it, a decision in October to cut the salary by 10%, and pensions by five, 10, 15, some and 20%. Adaptation. That's a very good expression. I'll have to use it more often. You said you'd now reward the builders and here's the reward, citizens of electricity excises 7.5%. It's your reward. You've had a reward in the past months, an increase in the price of all possible property taxes. The Minister says, well, it's not part of the state. So what's the part? It doesn't go into the Republic budget, but there, it's also part of some state-owned apparatus. That's what citizens pay for. They have 10.15, 20% less money than October last year, but they have higher costs and now they'll have higher electricity costs, 12 or I don't know how much, we'll see. You're here all the time, what's not in the law doesn't say what the expected effect on the budget is. I couldn't find it here, but you didn't even say if it was about 17 billion dinars, I was trying to find 17 billion dinars. Then you were talking about how great our budget is. Since, I don't know how much you said, 50 billion less than we planned at this point, we're at 8.09%. If we're so good, then why this new income? How do we explain it to the citizens? There's obviously something wrong with it. Something is wrong when you introduce income that will significantly fill the Republic of Serbia's budget and you claim that the budget is in great shape. That's what's wrong with logic. I would ask you to explain that to me, because obviously it's not such a good state of mind in the budget. You've justified this increase in the story of how good the budget is, it's illogical. Among other things, you said VAT increased 5%, excise 7.7% if I wrote it right. But is it true what was said at the session of the Assembly Committee on Finance and Budget, a few weeks ago, that tax collection today is not at the level of 2012, still. And that the level at which she was then, since in 2013, a major decline was made, even though VAT was then increased, to remind you of the ministers. You didn't raise him, but this political majority that formed this government is in which you are the minister. The VAT has been increased, as have many other taxes 2012, 2013, in 2014. But the charge is smaller, the total effect is smaller. The gray zone increased 30% in 2013 and that's where you should concentrate. If you had new taxes today as it was in 2012, you'd have 20-30 billion dinars more in the budget. That's what the president of the Fiscal Council said at the committee session. I'm not an expert in economics, I'm looking at what some people say who aren't just telling this story of yours that we're great and we're great because it's not. The citizens don't feel it, that it's wonderful and great and that they should now be rewarded by collecting electricity because we're so good. (Alexandra Tomic, from the place: That's not what he said. That's what he said, listen. I listened very carefully and wrote here. What's very interesting and what's great... People's MPs are getting it. I'm asking you to be the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30034	I ask the MPs not to receive the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30035	Don't beg them, punish them. Your first statement, that this is done because of the gradual harmonisation with the EU and Directive 2003/96. Can you say that in all EU countries there is a excise duty to be charged, since there are countries where excise duty exists in the EU, but the rate is zero. Do not act as pro-European politicians, to justify all things with euro integration. This thing has nothing to do with Euro integration. This thing needs to replace your incompetence. The inability to run the country's finances and don't talk about how we have a problem, how citizens lose their patience in euro integration. Of course they lose patience in Euro integration when they hear the story we pay expensive electricity because Europe says so. That's not true. That's not how it's in Europe. You spoke several times about the case of Croatia, how the electricity is twice as expensive there, right, but the salaries are double that. Double the salary, including in Bosnia, Bulgaria, Macedonia, all that I have stated. Unfortunately, there are higher salaries everywhere than in Serbia. Who's responsible for that? Your government in which you are a member and today you represent her here and responsible for the last three years of the minister, although I know you haven't been b or in the government for the last three years, but a little over a year. You spoke here, that was particularly interesting to me, you explained the debt situation. You talked about it, you said the debt was created based on the exchange rate differences in dollars, then you said that from 2007 to 2012, the highest debt debt was in debt, and that debt difference occurred. But to me, you asked me the question I asked why "Srbigas" in December of last year took a loan from the domestic banks of $200m in December, when you were the minister? You were here, you were sitting, we were arguing. Then I asked you a question here - why in dollars? The dollar then increased almost 20%. It's for your term of office. All right, not much, 40 million euros. You'll tell someone else she's not sure how many billion. This is not the minister's responsible relationship, 40m euros in domestic banks took credit for "Srbigas" in December of this year, this assembly then ratified it. In response to the parliamentary question you told me – we do not deal with the risks of course and course differences. Who does that in this country then? It's a very interesting story about the EPS and how it's going to restructure the EPS and what the effects are and what's going to happen to the EPS. It's a very serious topic and I've been waiting a few months for that last Thursday of the month for the minister or possibly prime minister to come and ask some questions about it because these are very serious things. You said 3.7 or 3.9 billion, now I'm going to apologize, 3.7 billion for which we have unrepaired assets and I wanted to ask the Minister of Energy here -- what about the 200m euros that the Japanese bank needs to deupport the thermal power plants in Obrenovac, to end the tender and do the job? Where do you care? Why has it been extended for a month, and now an additional three months for a job that needs to ensure that the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower plant works in the future? Citizens should know that if the desumporisation and denitrification of Serbian thermoelectric power plants are not completed on 1 January 2017, we must shut down the blocks of the thermal power plants, or they will only be able to operate a certain period of time over the next six years, and then completely shut them down. Will the country that has the potential to be an exporter of electricity, the main producer in the region fall to import and whether what it does with the EPS is deliberate to bring down the value of the company, in order to privatise, as the Prime Minister said and announced in his exposé, for small money, that the most valuable Serbian company is not worth 10, 15, 20 billion euros, but, as three, four, five billion are now said, that we give someone not only existing power plants, hydro and thermopower plants but all the coal supplies that are being talked about here too? Is that a real intention? It's a lot of serious questions, but we can't talk about it. We'll see, the last Thursday is this week, and maybe we'll talk about it. I have no doubt that the majority will adopt these amendments to the Excise Law and that Serbian citizens will pay a higher electricity price since 1 August this year. I just hope that this is the final prize of this government for the citizens of Serbia, that the government will no longer reward them, and that if this is a reward, then maybe the citizens will suffer the greatest punishment, which is that this government is gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30036	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30037	I didn't think it was part of a normal dialogue in the Assembly to assess anyone's ability or incompetence and I'll ignore that comment. As far as jurisdiction is concerned, you've approved the Ministry Act here and you know very well what the Ministry is responsible for. I'm in charge of the Department of Finance, and I'm willing to answer for that part. The ability can be seen in how much results have been achieved. I repeat, change thesis, combine thesis, etc. There is no acceptable argument in the civilised debate. I didn't say anything that was great and wonderful. I said the results were excellent and I said that all these results were not part of the change in structural balance, i.e. structural deficit. That's why we continue these reforms. To achieve initial results on the overall deficit, I think it's very commendable. If last year in July when I became a performer of duty and on 4 August when you elected me here, if I had said I would reduce the deficit from then estimated 8.8% to 0.8% with the state of June 20th this year, you would have told me or you would have told me – God forbid, even if we had done nothing else. I'm very honest with you. Regardless of all the other difficulties that I had said at the time that we would reduce the deficit ten times in a country that was facing a fiscal crisis, you would say that I am too optimistic at least, the mildest. Secondly, I think it's very important that this effect that I said and that I don't keep secret. Serbia wants to get closer to Europe. We choose at what rate. The excise rate may be within the range that Europe predicts, as the colleague said very nicely, and may be higher than some other countries, but I note - in Serbia right now, and these are absolute data, electricity is being sold. Find me another product that is sold, which is a homogeneous product and is sold on the world market where the price in Serbia is 50% lower than in other countries, and it is a product that everyone can freely spend on heating, on anything else. Serbia has 1.06 euros of total physics per kilowatt time of electricity. In Europe, the only lower fiscus has Britain, but it does so at a price of 20 cents per kilowatt. It is the intentional policy of the UK to cut electricity taxes because it wants to subsidize because the price is already so high. Among countries with a similar price as we do, BiH has 1.16, all others 1.49, 2.44, 1.93 Albania etc. The comparable countries are ours from the environment. Macedonia has 4.09 cents tax per kilowatt time. Therefore, with this increase, Serbia will remain at a price of 15% to 20% behind the lowest next country and will have a total fiscus of 1.41 cents per kilowatt hour, which is a perfectly normal price. I don't want to talk about future years, about plans. The moment we achieve the results of fiscal consolidation, we will adapt it to dynamics and what we need. As for the EPS and the EPS reform, I repeat, the final simple, short and clear EPS was the second currency in Serbia. For ten or fifteen years, the EPS has been with "Serbigas" the place where all debts are collected. It's a place where no one paid. This is where the state, by signing guarantees and giving loans, defacto funded companies, utility companies, heat and everything else. That has to change. In order for the EPS to change, we said – a medium-term restructuring plan must be adopted, including corporate restructuring management, organisational restructuring, efficiency raising and loss reduction. The EPS has 14 to 16% of losses and has 14 to 15% of outstanding claims. All of these are things that the EPS must put in order to then have a policy of approaching prices to countries in the environment and Europe, attracting investments and achieving Serbia's strategic goals to use coal as a resource while it can. The moment we, I hope, are in Europe we will have serious restrictions on using coal as a source of energy. Therefore, there is a long-term strategic interest. What we politically agree on or disagree on should not contradict our long-term common strategic interests. Growth VAT rises in charge rate rises. There hasn't been a change in rate in our period. The rate changed in December 2013. When we compare this period to last year, the rate hasn't changed. The social product hasn't changed. Therefore, the tax administration's efforts to charge for it are growing and all citizens are companies. When I say this, I say we do all this on behalf of the citizens. Otherwise, if we weren't working, we'd be guilty of all this. Therefore, VAT is growing because companies are reporting better and paying better, thanks to the fact that there are places where excise duties have not been paid in the past, and this is getting better and better done. It's not great, it's not great, but it seems to me to be a necessary step, and so I'm going to tell everyone who's looking at this on the side, a necessary step in the economic consolidation of this economy. In order to attract third generation investments, we need to settle fiscal discipline in the country and that is a prerequisite. I agree it's painful, it's unpopular. It would be best if we didn't have to cut anything, but out of three categories, you know our budget, our order of size 500 billion is pensions and transfers, 400 billion are your salaries in the public sector, 130 billion are your interest due to the debts we've made, together, I won't at all, I don't want to scare it, in the past, 50 billion are your investments, it's part of the total investment, because part goes past the budget, as you know in Article 3. You have a complete list, look at the budget we've adopted, and you have the material costs and that's it. You in that budget, because foreigners don't want it, it's called bankruptcy, that we haven't paid interest, the only place, the only surgery, fiscal surgery was possible on salaries and pensions, which is why it's a politically courageous move, which is why it's an open move. So, we've done, under the assumption, pain to people for the better. What we've done has resulted in more than expectations. Nothing great, nothing great, more than expectations, we planned 110 billion, 107 billion deficits at the end of June, it'll be 20, it'll be 30, maybe when we pay the interest, and those 30 will be increased by four to five billion because we're counting on the accounting standards of our "cash billing" in the budget, we're counting four to five billion more paid interest than we should, which costs us, because those are the rules. We're paying interest rates in the dollar liquidity, which we have since August of last year, which we paid 87 dinars for a dollar, and we're taking in books of 110, 111 dinars. We're taking nearly 30 dinars more every dollar. So it's an artificial deficit that isn't actually real. It's more or less the same, that's half of what we spent less on the side of the investment. I agree, we were supposed to make investments as planned, but we're not. I hope we speed up, hope we catch a step, hope we spend that, at the Department of Finance's division, there's five billion expropriations. We're ready to help, but we're being held back by different legal and other obstacles that don't allow these things to be realized. I'd like to talk to you today about what's the important side of this process. The important part of this process is that we need excise duty on the structural side of income. Alternative is an increase in VAT that affects everything. This is a little increase that is given by the target effect that is necessary to close the square of the circle, not to reduce this deficit that we are facing, but to reduce the structural deficit, which we can discuss in some particular debate. These are the elements of the promised expenditure and the constant income, it's a structural deficit. What we're looking at right now, it's a liquid deficit, and that's the difference. The difference in that deficit is that you have promises and things that happen extraordinaryly. It is a minor consumption of investments, it is extraordinary and increased dividends, it is an extraordinary series of things, and we have to provide for a second and third year of the programme that we have structural elements that will allow us to do everything we want to do for the sake of Serbia's economy and for the benefit of the people of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30038	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Granny, you asked for a replica? Yeah. Do you have a basis? Here, I wasn't in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30039	Mr Vujovicu, first of all, I will thank you for the very comprehensive professional response you gave to my colleague Đurisic. I'm going to try to answer those procedural objections, which, I really listened to very carefully, literally the whole speech was about procedure. I will remind you and Mr. Djurisic, as I see that he is missing the Prime Minister in the National Assembly Hall, I will remind you that from 2012 to 2015 Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, in this room, has been answering all questions, representing both laws and exposures and answering questions, spent 215 hours compared to four years in Mirko Cvetkovic, who spent four years in the hall, this same 74.5 hours, so we missed Mr. Cvetkovic, who was hiding in the halls of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not only was he not in the building of the National Assembly, but he was not in the building of the Republic of Serbia. Since I have not heard a single complaint, no argument is needed to impose excise duties, I will remind you that probably fellow Djurisic, preparing for this session, watched and read his speeches that supported the increase in electricity prices, say on March 1, 2008 by 7.6%, then on August 1, 2008 by 8.4%, and on March 1, 2010, by 10%, and on April 1st, instead of "aprils", Serbian citizens received an increase in electricity of 15.1%.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30040	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30041	Well, then the "perpetum of the mobile" that occurred, that we had a cumulative increase in electricity measured in hundreds of percent, and the effect on public finances was nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30042	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Djurishic, you have the right to a replica. I'm sorry, since I took over the presidency, I saw by reaction that you didn't think Mr. Babic had the right to a replica. I'll take a look at it in the stenogram in the synopsis if that's what it was like. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30043	Thank you, Your Honor. It'll be interesting when you look at it, what measure you'll give yourself, because you gave Mr. Babic the word completely unwarranted. I haven't mentioned him in a single word. The practice continues that Mr Babic can always get the word to answer each of us, and when we are trying to lead a democratic discussion, we do not have the right to replicas, because our right as MPs of the opposition is not strong enough to provide us with an answer. I'm not going to what Mr. Babic is to waste a lot of time because he obviously needs math lessons. These percentages he spoke of, which I believe are true, were never discussed by the Assembly, I never had the opportunity to say anything, so I invite him to find one of my only statements on the subject of how I support it and vote for it, and then come to this Parliament and when he finds that statement, I will apologize to him, and I expect him to apologize to me, because he will never, of course, be able to find it. I should know the math, that when he's added all these percentages, they can't all be hundreds of percent of the increase, they're not hundreds. But, well, there are classes in elementary school when these things are taught. Maybe it was a long time ago, and I don't remember everything I learned at school, it's not bad to remember sometimes, so if not here, maybe somewhere else. I was talking about citizens paying for electricity from August 1st 12.33% more if the electricity collection is 4.5%, these 7.5% excise, VAT and everything when added. It will be paid by citizens and it was my theme, Mr. Babic, I haven't dealt with a single second.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30044	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. I apologized in advance, you realize I can't deny anyone the right, because I can only see the synopsis in 15 minutes, and since I wasn't in the O.R., I couldn't tell if anyone had the right to reply or not. I apologized if I was wrong, but I'll still see to it by looking at the synopsis. Thank you. Now the rights to the replica has Mr. Babic, because it is mentioned by name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30045	As far as learning mathematics is concerned, I have passed my mathematics and one and two and three and studied with respected professors Rajović, Jovanic's mathematics two and with respected professor Simonović's mathematics three and I don't need classes in people who have studied mathematics in the 40s. The percentages of power increases are not collected simply, but here, as my colleague pulled me by the tongue and pulled me by the word, I will remind me of the increase in electricity on 15 March 2001 from 36.9%, then on 1 June 2001 from 40%, then on 9 October 2001 from 15%, and on 1 June 2002 from 50% and 1 July 2003 from 15%, and 1 July 2004 from 13.1%, and again on 1 July 2005, somehow before the annual vacation, from 9.5%, from 1 April 2006 on 15%, these percentages continue to start, yes, 15 May 2007 also 15%. It's nice to hear that no one is responsible for this, that Mr. Djurisic or has heard of this, can take my word for it, but don't take my word for it, you have official data and official statistics. What you should believe and what you were preparing for is the announcement by the CEO of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, the truth, by 2012, Mr Dragomir Markovic, who said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30046	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30047	... that the company's business plan did not provide for an increase in electricity prices in 2012, of course the election year, but by 2014 you planned a 60% increase in prices. You're probably not responsible for that either. Who's responsible?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30048	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica. You are mentioned and I ask you to close this circle of replicas and not open new replicas. Here you go, Mr. Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30049	Thank you, Chairman. We've been going since 2001, and we could go back to 90 or I don't know what year, so let's add up all the collection. But there were no electricity excises in all these gatherings. For the first time today, the government is passing a law that will take money from all citizens of Serbia who pay for electricity in the budget, to spend as the minister has already explained, how many parts of our budget, where we can change and how much we can change, how flexible they are, etc. The minister said -- it's a topic for another debate. I agree, Minister, we should talk about it. So, I expect we'll have a debate about rebalancing. If this is such a good budget, and now with this new income, we won't have a deficit at all probably there in August, September, when these revenues start. So we're going to be zero, if we're planning a deficit of about 5.5-6%. At the end of the year, we have to do a rebalancing. I guess we'd be having this debate then, see what the results are, or what led to that. You said it nicely, you call it structural reforms that need to be done, and these are current, short-term. We criticise that you are making a picture of the job being completed by not spending money on investment, by some of the extraordinary revenues in the budget. You're talking about it, and you're boasting that the deficit is smaller now, and then you admit that this measure is because it has to be structurally balanced. Tell the public it's not so great in the budget, we're not so good, we're embarrassed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30050	I thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word is by Dr Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30051	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, today we have had the opportunity to hear different points of view, especially when it comes to amending and supplementing the Excise Act. But in addition to these, we need to say that we have confirmation of conventions relating to the common transit procedure, as well as the part relating to formalities in trade in goods, and we have proposals for legislation on the confirmation of the loan agreement, which are very important because one refers to the part involving the land cadastre, and the other to structural reforms of the general public sector and public enterprises. Finally, what caused the surprise is the proposal for a programme that is covered by the work of the Republic Statistics Institute from 2014 to 2020, which is essentially the basis for all of this, because that programme does not simply have adequate data to be available when we bring legal proposals here in the Assembly. What we are talking about today, excises, shows essentially that many who are against such a law do not know essentially what European integration is and where we are obliged to make certain directives, which are still from 2003, and today is 2015. So it took 12 years to bring the budget into such a position that we could talk about harmonising regulations, especially when it comes to excises. This directive now covers taxation policy through excise duties and regarding electricity. I will tell you that our colleague Kružević very well gave a systematic one analysis of the essence of the price of electricity that is in the region as well as of us, as well as of how it grew. Somewhere, my colleague Babic touched practically how the price of electricity grew. But if we were to sum up the results from 2000, the price was 0.44 dinars per kilowatt hour by 2012, when it came to 5.95 dinars per kilowatt hour, which is a very large collection. But if they were to follow in four years, in 2001 and 2000, there were three gatherings over the year. But don't forget that the practical inflation at the time was several times higher than today, so the practical increase from 2000 to 2004 was 166%, from 2004 to 2008 was 53%, and from 2008 to 2012 was 42%. Now, there's a lot of things being forgotten. It is forgotten that new cover and new "Colubares" fields have been opened, that there has been a rapid exploitation of coal and natural resources in one way that has essentially increased by three to four times the practical exploitation of coal and electricity consumption, that there have been no unremembered floods as yet, that there has been no such damage to the energy system. But don't forget, after European integration, we've committed ourselves to virtually taking 27% of electricity from renewable energy sources by 2020, and now we're at 21.2%. What does that mean? This means that the Serbian Power Network system will have to improve to receive an additional amount of electricity. That's part of it. The second part, when we talk about which countries in the region, or in the EU, have such a system of action, we talk about that they are not Croatia, are not Great Britain and are not Hungary. Why? Because there is a huge inflow of electricity, which is the very same thing as renewable energy funds that have fully developed systems. By 2012, practically neither the legal nor the plans were included in the plan of new systems that should strengthen the production of the so-called ". green energy. Otherwise, the price of green energy is one of the highest prices, especially in the EU. The European Union says - the moment you enter the EU, electricity prices should be leveled. So we're far, far from equating the price of electricity. We have the lowest price of electricity, not in the region, but in the EU. Maybe that's why we're interesting to many investors, but that doesn't mean that at such a price we can simply put up with budgetary subsidies and support for citizens, because otherwise, the price of electricity has its so-called. the social dimension. And what was done in 2012 is to really list the entire social category nomenclature for which it will have practical support from the budget and which will not fall under this electricity billing system. This means that, counterpart Kružević explained it nicely, sixm euros from the budget go to support those social categories when it comes to electricity prices. When we talk about Croatia, their price is twice as high as the price of electricity in Serbia. What we say in general is that we should start to think seriously, is to raise awareness in the public how to be energy efficient, how to act within the scope of our homes, households, and then also in the context of small and medium-sized enterprises in the private and public sector, simply to use all mechanisms and all innovations that will practically save 30% of the electricity based only on our behaviour, and above all on the application when we talk about our homes, the construction of new technologies, new materials, which involve energy-efficient facilities, and then also when we talk about electricity and the application of new ice technologies and light bulbs. Believe me, only if you leave your house and spend that time will you have certain savings. But, simply, we're used to it, we're a people who, until the pain hits us, we don't want to save and we just live out of our options. These may be really small figures when we talk about a certain consumption and an account of two and a half thousand dinars, but they're significant savings when we talk about larger accounts. What needs to be said is that the excise duty on liquids and the charge of electric cigarettes is something that is now being introduced, which will be about 10%, but it has been observed, based on imports of small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with the sale of these cigarettes, that increased imports of cigarettes. This means that Serbian citizens who are smokers are crossing, practically, into new forms of buying cigarettes and that shows, simply, that they are also in a long-term sense saving on consumption. How? So because one analysis was made, and through this law was given, that practically one milliliter of this liquid replaces 20 cigarettes, which turns out to be essentially one pack, according to this, cost 38 dinars. Thus, the introduction of these excise duties will not introduce a large consumption of people who actually consume these electronic cigarettes, but everyone is aware of that, when they go anywhere abroad, that simply a pack of cigarettes cannot be bought below four euros. Therefore, the price of cigarettes, when we speak here, is somewhere again as a social category in Serbia, somewhere and not all citizens of Serbia are affected equally, but simply in the area of luxury. What we need to say today when we talk about conventions on a common transit procedure, it's that we get by ratifying this convention a new computerized transit system. Otherwise, the government decided on 15 January 2009 that, following certain European directives and the signing of the SAA, the European Commission had sent one delegation, first, to check whether essentially Serbia is capable of introducing such a transit system and practically computerising the entire goods transit system through the customs terminal. What is important is that the EU has invested very much through IPA funds. In 2011, she invested around 1,925,000 euros, plus 224,000 euros, and in 2015 – 147,520,000 dinars. Why is the need at all, like this other convention, that speaks of the simplification of formalities? So just because we're going to provide less waiting at the border crossings, simplified procedure, we're reducing the costs of all those in the system of trade of goods across borders and we have a new application of information technologies, which is very important, especially when we're talking about modernising the work of small and medium-sized enterprises, especially when we're talking about export-oriented enterprises. When we talk about these loan agreements, it should be said that, in addition to what we have today, it is one of the results of the US Prime Minister's visit, but it should be said that this creates greater transparency, especially when we talk about supporting the new agenda for the reform of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about market development, especially when we had laws relating to the Law on Planning and Construction, the issue of building permits as soon as possible, we want to reach higher rankings in the world list, both at the World Bank and at the World Economic Forum. What is important is to say that the IBRD granted only the first loan of $44m, i.e. 36.2m euros per 15-year duration of this loan for four years of grace periods at an interest rate of 0.25%, with what we have and a share to start paying off in 2019. When we talk about the loan agreement for the development and restructuring of enterprises, then we talk about 100 million dollars, or the loan for 20 years, eight-year grace periods and 24 wars that are practically starting to pay off from 15 June 2023. Why are we talking about this? Because so far we have had the care of 2,700 companies, since 2012, we have practically taken care of 1,300 companies that cannot possibly cope with their debtors. This is what we found in 2012 and these debts show that the state was in debt. The very fact that in the last ten years, from 2002 to 2012, interest has risen from 140m to 1.4 billion euros annually, shows essentially that the major problem is the public sector and public enterprise reform. This is one support that is really given by the European Investment Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the best possible conditions. What's important in all this is that 280 thousand people working in these companies practically have their own future because they're all in fear in the public sector that they're going to lose their jobs, especially in those public enterprises that are doing business freely on the market and when the state wants to simply reform their work, and when we talk about the EPS, I'm really behind and I'm giving full support for the EPS reform, which had 600 directors and who, from 1 July, will be aware of all seven executive directors and consolidate, practically, my business on the part relating to electricity production, the part that concerns distribution and especially the EPS supply, so only if you cancel 600 directors, 600 drivers, 600 vehicles, you've already saved a lot of things, and simply, that concept should be supported and supported by all the political options. When you speak of excise duties, you must not be underprivileged in all of this because when it is said that citizens will actually receive a gift, it will be given the moment when they feel the improvement that will, of course, go slowly, but when pensions and wages are returned to the level that was before they were reduced, it shows that in that time this government and this country have indeed made a major reform of the economic system, consolidation of public finances, and of course every citizen will feel it within their own household. Therefore, many things, when we talk especially about electricity, need to be changed. We need to change our minds about how we're going to spend, how we're going to rationalize our accounts. You've made a very good suggestion here about what it should look like. When we talk about a decision concerning work in general and a programme of work of the Republic Statistics Institute, we should commend first and foremost the way this plan was done. Essentially, it is supported by both the UN and the EU, and this activity review gives us first and foremost that it has been done according to the standards of the 2013-2017 statistical programme, that therefore we have this statistical programme that will be accepted by the passionate Eurostat because only if you are one of the parts, practically, of European statistics, can you, in a certain way, through European funds, provide for co-operation with all EU members, including those who do not because they have a very good picture of how you will design your financial plan for the future. In the end, it should be said that this set of laws in the SNS voting day will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30052	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30053	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I will try to make clear arguments in favour of the discussion concerning results and effects, whether they are positive or negative, structural reforms that the minister spoke of, but also of which the MPs spoke before me. So when it comes to arguments, when it comes to data, I believe we rule out macroeconomic analyses and trends. I believe, to the man who just sat here in this hall, so Dr. Miladin Kovacevic, and I'll make it clear what's going on with domestic exports, what's going on with the business climate in our country, and what are the real values that we have as a result of the first quarter of this year. When it comes to exports, we have an annual increase of 3.7% or 5.6% more than in the same period last year. In the case of exports of capital products, the average of 6.4% during the first four months of this year and the increase in exports of durable and non-permanent products for a wide consumption of around 13%. So, in the same month, I have to point out that in order to be realistic and correct with other colleagues, we have an annual reduction in exports of intermediate products and energy exports by 41%, which is due to major floods and major disasters that hit our country last year in May. When we talk about electricity excises, we can't view this problem as a partial problem, but as part of the so-called. The second phase of structural reforms that the minister himself spoke of, which led primarily to a deficit recorded in the first quarter of 19.3 billion, with 75.9 billion in 2014. That we had a surplus in April, and it is that April is the so-called economically speaking month and speaking in that cliché spoken of by the businessmen, so the big month when the three-month VAT is charged, but it is also the result of an unspeakable and unspeakable fight against the grey economy and the result of legal solutions and greater control and greater tax discipline that has led to the fact that the additional value tax being charged in relation to last year's first quarter of 8.9 billion dinars more, that excises are charged more, so that the first stage of structural reforms obviously gives good results. When it comes to electricity excises, it is simply necessary that, if we want to have a market economy, if we want to have market prices, of course with a strong and strong component that exists in this law, and refers to socially endangered categories in consumption up to 250 kilowatt hours, we must in the right way and open the electricity market, because we have, but not in full capacity, for the reason that we have and that the electricity has so far had electricity, electricity offers at a price lower than the market price. Given the fact that there are more than 70 players in that market to participate and that they should contribute to the price, service, quality of electricity being better, of course, primarily for citizens and for the economy, we still have a situation for simple electricity to be below the market price and that we cannot develop competition and a competitive match in this area. So this is just that second phase. I will say one more thing in favour of this and as my party's position is a very important aspect when it comes to implementing this second phase of structural reforms, it is a reorganization of public enterprises, it is a reorganisation of "Serbian Gas", the Elektroprivreda, the Ways of Serbia, which must be more aggressive, which must already have clear deadlines and the effects that they want to achieve, and I hope that we all want to achieve that these companies are more efficient, not being liquidity generators, as they are now, to be urgently corporated or, why not, to make a proposal here that, as Croatian HEP has done, 25% of the bonds on the stock market. To try to get to some strategic, private, big partner who's going to improve management, who might bring some new technology, a new hall, since it's obvious that this, as it has been, is not working. It's not just 600 directors, it's going to cut 600 directors to 300 and we're going to have another 300 advisors with the same salaries and we didn't do anything. The biggest problem is in approach and the problem is corporate governance and an attempt to make these companies efficient in accordance with the highest standards and procedures of human resources management in these companies, with a clear vision of human resources planning, recruitment, selection, motivation system, management performance that we can either do, or we are able to do so, if we are not to see that we find strategic partners who can or can capitalise these companies and ultimately lead to these companies being more efficient, to be better on the market and to be competitive with those in the region. I must say that public investment has, unfortunately, failed, which, of course, needs to be fixed and we expect, in any case, this liberalisation, when it comes to electricity prices and the general electricity market. And, well-respected ministers with their team, we expect, eager and this third phase of implementation of structural reforms, and we hope to be honest that we will be able to implement it, and it refers to the reduction of the burden on profits and to stronger, better and more quality exploitation of state assets. It is precisely this that will lead to, in our opinion, higher economic growth, to this percentage of 5%, to new employment, to the opening of space for new foreign investment, but I ask you not to forget domestic investors, who can hire, whom and how it could be an open space for greater employment for diversifying their business, for an extended reproduction that we should generally pursue as an economy, and for, of course, what it is, the focus of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Parliament itself for more aggressive growth and more aggressive strengthening of the private sector, which is, of course, one of the main preconditions for the overall development of the economy. It is very important in this domain to take advantage of public property, attempt, and I don't know what you personally think about this proposal to tax property, therefore, in terms of trade and putting into full capacity of state property in order to better manage, better quality management, but the prerequisite for it is to see what state property is, which we have. This job, when it comes to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, is done. We can't conduct any savings. We can't talk about improving efficiency and efficiency if we don't know what we have. According to some analyses and information, there are dozens, hundreds of thousands of square meters, not to mention state-owned land, therefore owned by the Republic of Serbia. For which model we will decide, this is now the question of the government's assessment, you as finance minister, but there are many assets standing, which are failing, which are not being used, which could be exploited and which could bring income to our country and, of course, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's the part, the third phase that needs to contribute to making us a strong, modern economy and making fiscal consolidation work at full capacity. And when will it work? It will succeed when the economy starts to work, when we stop, which we already have, which is very important, when we stop borrowing, because then banks will not have a greater interest in lending money to the state, which is now in force, but will in fact start borrowing money from the economy. It will start and more competition will be opened and, of course, we hope to reduce interest rates which will be encouraging both for the businessmen who currently exist in our country and our market, and for everything that our country needs very much to become an entrepreneurial society. To make that famous transfer from an official to an entrepreneurial society. So, full capacity SDPS supports the liberalisation of the electricity market, but for what reason? Because that's how competition opens up. Because we know that both the prices for the economy and the prices for the citizens in that open competition, the competition will be the way they should be and how the market dictates. This, of course, is based on the system of combined courts in the economy, will give good and positive effects on the work of the economy, on the creation of new investments, and thus end the so-called third phase and the creation of an economy that is competitive and which can mate to competitors, not only in the region but also at EU level. Of course, I would like to say a few more sentences on the bill to confirm the loan agreement on a project to improve the country's administration in Serbia. This is the key thing when it comes to investment, that is what will build up the electronic administration, which is more difficult, of course, for the government and Parliament, and I hope that in the next period, we will have a very soon-to-be e-parliament that has been developed at a high level of i-guarment that has been installed and implemented in all state institutions, in this way, of course we will attract more investors, we will save large funds for our budget and we will, of course, be more competitive than other countries in the environment. Here I have to mention, as one of the very good examples, when it comes to i-guarment, it is Macedonia, but it is only an example of us being able to do it very quickly and dynamically, because if Macedonia could do it, if and how it has contributed to the additional value tax being paid to 98% in Macedonia, I see no reason for us to do such a job in just a few months as a model of the same Macedonia and also to get electronic building permits as quickly as possible and thus the Law on Planning and Construction and all other investment laws to live in one real and quality way. Of course, I also support this Law on loans, reorganisations and assistance to these enterprises in restructuring, which is also related to co-operation with the National Employment Service. Of course, this is one of the key problems and key things that the Government and Parliament should be dealing with and simply because of this creation of ambience and educational aspect when it comes to people who, because of the possible bankruptcy of these companies, will be left without a job so that clear programs, good programs, educational character that will refer them to any other option or model, whether it is the launch of a new job with certain state subsidies or proactively seeking another, does not matter. We have to create a simple one ambience, where people will take their fate into their own hands, where they will work clearly and work daily on their completion, because it is at the end of the product of the market economy where everyone is trying to do the most for themselves, all of this other thing, every other story is an orderly story, every other story is a story of collectiveism that, of course, is not good and that has led us to this level that we are now in this economic sense absolutely not in an envious situation. Once again, I repeat, SDPS will vote in favour of these bill proposals, as always for the social-market economy, for the competition match, of course with respect to the fundamental foundations of the social and social democratic values that exist, so in these laws, which we are very pleased with, where in one quality way, the socially endangered members of our society will be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30054	Thank you, Professor. Marinkovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30055	I would like to thank the chairman, honourable ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, at the very beginning, that the SPS parliamentary group will vote and support and vote in favour of the proposed set of laws that we are discussing today. First, I will start with what was, in fact, the first item of the agenda of this session of the Republic's Parliament, it is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Action. Dear Ministers, you have said of the opportunities which are the objectives of this law, and we in the SPS parliamentary group consider them multidimensional in any case and achieve at least three objectives, with the adoption of this law. The first objective is no doubt the harmonisation of excise policy with the EU's fiscal policy. The second goal is to complete the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the third goal is to create preconditions for the EDB and for all those who, from these funds, are being charged with excise duties, can achieve certain positive effects. There have been a lot of criticism here today, especially since the opposition, when it comes to price hikes based on excise charges. Comparative observation with countries in our close environment with Croatia and Slovenia. Well, then let's demystify that story. Come on, let's just start with these parallel ways of forming or systematicizing how this excise policy was set up, how was the excise charge and on what basis? Let's go from Croatia. Croatia, it is said, has a much better standard than Serbia, that it has a much higher salary and that is true. But in 1994, I will remind Croatia that it introduced excises on energy, primarily on electricity, in 2010 Croatia started harmonising excise policy with EU fiscal policy, so that this harmonisation would be completed by the Excise Taxation Act, which was brought into Croatia in a painless way, which fully implemented the harmonisation of excise policy with the EU fiscal policy. What's going on? Croatia and the Croatian government, after harmonisation, adopts a regulation that increases electricity excises. Why? Well, because he takes care of his budget. This is the opposition's response to the country's precisely responsible governments, whose fiscal policy is being protected, taking care of the protection of their budget no matter how stable their fiscal systems are, how stable their financial structure of the entire economic and financial system is whether they are stable or not. The same situation is in Slovenia. In Slovenia, there was an increase in excise duties, i.e. excise charges, following the harmonisation of 2007-2009. Why? Well, again, in order to protect the state's budget, as Croatia did, Slovenia did. The question arises, dear ministers, so why would we be greater popes than popes and why would we be made smarter than those who have done in a smart way and let our budget system go to one of the verseal ways of filling or better say not filling. That is why the government has the support of the SPS, because it has been participating in the government and is responsible for taking part in the government and therefore considers these system solutions to be good system solutions. We in the SPS parliamentary group and how well we know that Serbian citizens are not happy to accept this concept and that this is an unpopular measure for Serbian citizens, because any increase in prices paid in terms of spent electricity, in any case citizens do not experience it in a positive way, which is both logical and natural. We, as a party that and how it takes care of social justice, from a social point of view and social point of view, think that citizens in this direction should understand. But also citizens need to know that this measure is precisely something that will be a prerequisite for a positive effect in some future period. Therefore, we will agree with you, the honourable ministers, when you said in the opening statement that this is a kind of sacrifice that the citizens of Serbia are making to expect, precisely positive effects for the citizens, for some foreseeable period. But those who don't know, and neither do you, in the opening statement, are the next fact. What was planned to change the excise policy of the Republic of Serbia is the announced introduction of electricity excises that should have resulted in a 15% increase in prices for end-users. You correct me if I'm wrong. It is precisely, thanks to the prime minister's efforts and you personally, that 15% of the increase did not occur, but it was 12.5%, and if we talk about this relaxation, the biggest damage suffered precisely by the EPS, because 7.5% in any case goes into the budget and of 7.5% will in any case benefit citizens, no matter how, whether through the pension-inhabitation fund or through other effects, but in any case the citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel the benefit. "Electroprivred Serbia" suffers, but the EPS, on the other hand, can expect effects in terms of or restructuring from this way too, which will be stated later on, otherwise the state of Serbia should have, not only when it comes to EPS but also other public enterprises, and precisely from the effects expected of this law. These are the reasons why Serbian citizens should recognise that this unpopular measure is indeed an unpopular measure from the social aspect should be a kind of burden that, in some foreseeable period, I repeat, can achieve positive effects and in this direction we consider and share your mood that is optimistic, that even with further measures carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia will come to these positive effects. As far as the other draft laws are concerned, I would first refer to the bill confirming the loan agreement for the development and restructuring of companies and public undertakings. Dear Ministers, the SPS parliamentary group here provides unreserved support. Absolutely all “unbelievable Tom, ” no matter what political option or implementation they belonged to, whether ruling or opposition, there are some facts here they cannot in any case object to, or these same facts cannot be questioned. For what? Because there are a huge number of problems at the level of public enterprises, which is why this loan law must be passed. Some problems are common to most public enterprises. Others are characteristic only of some public enterprises. I will mention those that you have not taxed but are well known to you - the low cost efficiency that is expressed through excess employees, the conclusion of harmful contracts, the performance of social functions at the level of public enterprises, which is not in line with fiscal consolidation and financial consolidation, over-sponsoring by public enterprises that are otherwise more or less present in all public enterprises. From the state's point of view, the biggest problems concern public enterprises that generate losses that are then covered by the state budget. That is why this law is necessary, because it is certainly not known to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that out of 800 public enterprises only a dozen operate positively. Just a dozen companies from 800 public companies. At the height of the loss, no doubt the predecessor of "Srbijagas", "The Railways of Serbia", "The City Transport Company of Belgrade". The most important measure from the point of view of what we are doing today through the adoption of system laws, at least as seen by the Socialists and the SPS parliamentary group, is for "Srbigas" to stop this company from delivering gas to customers who do not pay them, to stop delivering gas to non-payments. It is important to eliminate and non-productive costs related to gas trade intermediaries, as well as to urgently privatise dependent companies outside the core activity. In the case of Railways. This problem is far more complex. The solution to this problem is really complicated, and it implies closing a large number of non-productive railways and the concentration of resources on key highway routes such as Corridor 10, the Belgrade-Bar track and others. However, the division of enterprises and the dismissal of surplus workers should be carried out. You have already said that in this direction it is necessary to provide money for severances, which we fully agree on. As for the city's transport company in Belgrade, a solution may exist, and you will consider increasing the profits and the cash to pay the profits with a reduction in the surplus workers and a stronger involvement of private entrepreneurs. As far as privatisation of public enterprises is concerned, it is possible to privatise all companies operating in conditions of competition. In these conditions, it no doubt operates Telekom, Danube Insurance, or the Danube Group and others. The state-owned should remain natural monopolies such as Serbia's Elektro Networks, part of the infrastructure-based Railway, Post office, utility-based water supply, sewerage and other enterprises. What is indisputable here is that all these companies as losers, without financial assistance being provided precisely in the way I hope to vote, will support all those who have good intentions towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and because of the citizens of Serbia all this is done, is the adoption of these laws because, I would like to remind myself of statistics, public enterprises whose founder of the Republic of Serbia are in the structure of the next – 25 are in the status of public enterprises, four in the status of action societies, seven in the status of companies with limited responsibility. These companies have about 93,000 employees and receive subsidies from 27 billion dinars. Dear Minister, what's the burden? Twenty-seven billion dinars of subsidies. Is it at all necessary to answer the question to anyone in the opposition who gives criticisms that I think are unargued and unfounded that this problem must be addressed urgently and urgently? Maura and this is exactly the beginning of solving this problem. Finally, I would also like to point out what is related to the law relating to the confirmation of the loan agreement for the settlement, i.e. the improvement of the land administration. Let's be a little more open here than we normally are to the public, which is that this is one of the neural dotscads is about a lot of what, starting with traffic, infrastructure, economy, privatisation, and hoping I don't count. Why the neural point? Because right here in the disorder or disorder the land of the administration stands the generator of all problems relating to the inability to issue building permits in the way that the law has prescribed, the inability to implement privatisations in a way that the law has also prescribed with the effects that privatisation is expected and many other things. But, ladies and gentlemen, I hope, given your undoubtedly extremely high professional reference, you will also continue to address another problem in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this problem is purely normative. We, with the services of the catastar of immovableity in practice, have an unprecedented number of problems, but the biggest problem is no doubt the slowness of the immovableity cadastre services, no doubt one big problem is the inability to carry out in a transparent way everything that is expected of the catastra, so that citizens have the opportunity to respond adequately to all the problems they face in the catastro. Why am I saying this? Because we have a systemic solution to decide, according to complaints, on decisions made by the Immobility Catastrophe Service, the Resolute Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Construction. This ministry is burdened with not a few tenths, but several hundred thousand complaints, and can we expect the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Construction to make an effective decision with such congestion, on the other hand, that citizens experience legal certainty and that within a short time or within a reasonable period of time they get a decision by appeal. We can't until that problem is solved. It is necessary to restructure the catastres, to bring new system solutions that will be organised in a different way, so as not to repeat errors from the periods that this government inherited, which we inherited, from the times when the generators of the problem were the Republic Geodetic Institute, and now for the Catastre of immovableity in another way, without the intention of talking about subjective responsibility, because if something is not systemically solved, we cannot talk about individual guilt until this system good is resolved. Of course, for all other laws that have been proposed today, or proposals for decisions, the Socialist Party of Serbia Group will vote in the voting day and support and support the government of the Republic of Serbia and you personally in efforts to overcome all these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30056	Thank you. As we are done with the authorised representatives, we are moving on to the order of the MPs by application of the word. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30057	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fellow Jovanovic spoke in an exhaustive little discussion about all the legislative proposals and decisions that today are the subject, without reducing the importance and importance of the remaining points of the agenda. In my presentation, I will only make one further review and once again try to state the reasons why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, along with the remaining points of the agenda and legislative proposals and decisions, wants to support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. So that's what we're talking about. It is true that the reasons for the adoption of this legislative proposal are to achieve the objectives of, as stated above, the scope of the excise policy, the harmonisation of the excise policy with European Union rules and, above all, in the context of the extension of excise taxation and electricity. It is also true that the reason for adoption is, among other things, the reason for the adoption of this legislative proposal, that it is the basis for the implementation of an agreement that leads to fiscal consolidation and which is the precondition and basis for the implementation of the agreement on the International Monetary Fund. It is also true that this legislative proposal, on the one hand, wants to allow for a greater inflow of funds, a greater income in the republican budget. The minister spoke of it in the opening statement. So it's going to be about 17 billion dinars on an annual level. It is also true that it will make savings more economical, more rational electricity consumption and thus create a lasting basis for the development of the energy sector, i.e. the energy sector. Of course, we are fully aware and we are looking at the needs and situations in which the citizens of Serbia are. Of course, every collection is and is difficult for the citizens of Serbia, that this collection, which will average around 325 dinars, will be difficult for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, it's never the right time to increase prices, especially increase prices and raise electricity. But what I'm saying is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken one, I would say, seriously and socially responsible approach, in talks with the representatives of the International Monetary Fund, and that the government has succeeded in achieving those goals it wanted to achieve during talks with the representatives of the International Monetary Fund. Here, above all, I think there is the least possible, looking at the increase in electricity prices in Serbia, and on the other hand, looking primarily at the social situation, the social economic situation in Serbia, to protect the socially most vulnerable categories of the population. Of course, this is not about someone in Serbia trying to force something or the IMF trying to force electricity collection or any other decision. I don't think that in this context neither the IMF should be seen as an institution, but neither should the talks held with IMF representatives. The International Monetary Fund is an institution that wants Serbia well, which together with the government of the Republic of Serbia is working to find the best possible solutions leading to a sustainable budget and leading to economic growth. Of course, the positive attitude of the IMF is very important and significant. As important as it is for investors, it is so important and important for the citizens of Serbia and it is a encouraging and positive message to Serbian citizens, that Serbian citizens have a government that does something concrete and works in their interest. The government of the Republic of Serbia must be persistent and continue to implement reform processes, as without reforms and the reform process there will be no positive shift and there will be no improvement. The reform process also involves making bold, difficult and once unpopular decisions, but this government has shown that everything it does and does is not done by a choir of political parties making up the ruling coalition, but because of Serbian citizens, because of Serbia's future and the future of each Serbian citizen. I've already said, reform processes can't stop. The government has to be persistent about it. That means, I'll repeat, both brave and difficult and once unpopular decisions, but that's something that leads to a sustainable budget and growth. The goal is a sustainable level of deficits and debt participation in GDP. You, Mr. Minister, were talking about the first fiscal results this year and they are encouraging, they are good. Positive news for Serbian citizens, we expect the deficit to be on average 500m to 600m euros below planned at the end of the year. When it comes to fiscal consolidation, we fully agree that it is important that there is a permanent source of income, which is also achieved by the legislative proposal that we are talking about today, therefore, by electricity excises. You also talked about it in the opening statement. The annual income planned on this basis is about 17 billion dinars, and those funds from the Republic budget want to be directed exactly, so we want to believe that they will be directed towards the citizens of Serbia, precisely towards improving the lives of Serbian citizens, in terms of the provision and quality of all those services that the state provides to Serbian citizens. That's where we think about health care, education and social protection. The state still wants to protect the most socially vulnerable categories of the population through a programme of protected customers, which gives the poorest part of the electricity consumption free of charge. I believe that this year, around sixm euros for this purpose, i.e. for the energy protection of the most vulnerable customers, has been defined in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think that electricity in all countries is an excise product despite the purchase of the electricity price, which we are talking about today, in Serbia is still the lowest price of electricity in Europe. Also, I want to say that we believe that at this point there is no fear that this increase will have an impact on the rise in prices of goods and services in Serbia. Speaking of the ratio of electricity in Serbia, according to some neighbouring countries, it has already been said, but I will repeat, Serbia is cheaper on average 15% than in Macedonia, 12% than in BiH, twice as cheap as in Croatia, and about 50% in Montenegro. Legally, it is the right of any political option to have a critical reference to the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That right no one can take away any political option. We believe that we should not be in a political context and that it is not good in the political context to talk about the subject we are talking about today and to bring this topic to the level of day-to-day policy issues. Security of supply and the future of the EPS and reform processes, which in Serbia cannot stand and which must continue and which lead towards fiscal and economic consolidation, are very important and important topics for us today. What we are talking about today is part of the measures that are, in our opinion, a rescue for the Serbian economy and part of the measures concerning Serbia's future, and I will repeat, part of the measures concerning the future of each Serbian citizen. There were few words, when we're talking about power collection, you correct me if I'm wrong, but I think that by the formation of this government, the price of electricity has accumulated as much as 1000%, or 10 times more, and in the period, let's say, in 2001 to 2008, 726%, correct me if I'm wrong in this data. When we have a stable fiscal consolidation, we are convinced, of course, that at that moment we can discuss a correction that would lower the excise that we are talking about today. Otherwise, we fully agree that Serbia and the energy system must and should enter the labour regime that is marketable. It must be entered into a new investment cycle, as I will repeat the electricity system and Serbia's electricity needs to be stable. The EPS must be encouraged to behave more responsibly and to manage this company successfully. Also, this was discussed by Mr Jovanovic, the authorised representative, the process of restructuring the EPS of the sea, and should be completed. We expect more efficiency, management restructuring, less costs, and, of course, what is most important, we expect far greater revenue to be achieved. Once again, what Mr Jovanovic said when it comes to public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, you have our support when we talk about rationalising public enterprises. Rationalisation must continue, reforms must continue, it must be considered in the direction of management that will be professional, because it is the only way to have more efficient public enterprises and cheaper, i.e. public enterprises that will operate more rationally and in the direction of a clearly defined concept, which is public reform and strengthening the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30058	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30059	Thank you very much. Why does he collect electricity? This is a question, not a question of whether the excise duty is greater or smaller in Croatia and what is the situation in our finances. What's the state of our finances you can see here. This is a public debt counter with the coat of arms of Serbia. So it's official data and it's currently written 25 billion, they change all the time. It is very sad that a world voice economist must defend such a thin story of excise duty in front of the Serbian Parliament. Why is the excise being introduced? Because our finances are very good, so we don't need to be introduced, then we need to get rid of bio-fuels and bio-fluids, because it was introduced into excises two years ago with a completely pointless reason. If someone produces and if someone spends bio-fuels and bio-fluids, they should be stimulated, not punished. What is the problem with the price of electricity in Serbia? It is true that it is the lowest in Europe, but it is not true that it is 4.9 dinars. It's just bad statistics. This is due to Serbia having several hundred thousand numbers that are not measuring anything, which stands in vain. Otherwise, real consumption cannot be below 600, 700 kilowatts a month. Who can live a month with 250 kilowatts? No one, of course. If we apply that level of consumption, then the average price in Serbia is almost eight dinars, not 4.9, and that's real data. Why is the EPS in bad shape and why is the IMF asking to increase the price? If the costs were reduced in the EPS, the IMF would not ask for an increase in prices, and it is clear as day. Why are the prices so high? Because there are 15 to 17,000 extra workers. Changing 600 directors is pure demagogy. The sixth director, those people stayed behind to work at the EPS with the same salaries just aren't called directors anymore. Their secretaries are still secretaries. Their drivers are still drivers, and no one sold any cars. Therefore, there is no cost reduction. If the level of EPS employees were brought to the needed wage cuts at the annual level would be over 200m euros, which is more than an effect in the budget expected from the introduction of the excise. The other thing is theft into the EPS. In 2012, three billion kilowatts is the difference between delivered and invoiced, or not technical losses are three billion kilowatts. After the change of government in 2013, the matter changed significantly so that it was no longer three billion, but became 4.6 billion. Vukic said in September last year – do not come to me with a requirement to increase the price of electricity, but show me who steals 18% of the electricity, quote. It wasn't discovered who was stealing it. Public procurement for EPS is a circus, especially with numbers and here check what happened with the purchase of Czech numbers that don't do anything or why they're changing numbers for five, six years without any reason in some parts, and they stay very, very long somewhere. These are the reasons why the EPS is at stake in Serbia, not because Serbian citizens are boastful and have extra money, which is why they should be rewarded with this excise, as the minister said, but because this hides one incompetence, first of all, and crime in the EPS, which is not since yesterday, but is not an excuse, and the inability of this government to actually make a consolidation of public finances, but rather uses various financial tapes to show great progress. Tell the citizens of Serbia how much better it is, don't tell us about it. Finally, the debt in dollars is, let's say one example of the loan in dollars is a loan from the Emirates. It wasn't someone who owed it two years ago, it was a two-year-old task. Finally, teach the Prime Minister there is no gross domestic VAT. When he wants to say that there is an increase in gross domestic product, then let him say gross domestic product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30060	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30061	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 107. - insulting Parliament's dignity. You had to react because someone put a counter ahead of him, claiming it was official data from the Republic of Serbia, even put a coat of arms, among other things, the Republic of Serbia, which is usually a criminal responsibility, because it is an imaginary NGO. It's a miracle she's close to some organizations at the Faculty of Political Sciences, which makes me wonder why she put that counter there and presented it as allegedly official information about how we're growing public debt and thus panicking the people. If you look at this NGO's website, which you don't even know the address, or who the representatives of this NGO are, you'll see that some other websites are very so-called. oppositional, same structure, absolutely the same domain, from the same center someone does, invents such things. I pray you, in the future, to warn him who brings it forth, for it is not proper for the people to lie, to be deceived and to panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30062	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Mr. Zivkovic, you know there's no replication to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I haven't even answered.) I'm sorry. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30063	Thank you very much. Let me start from the last finding. Firstly, I think it is important to clarify for our citizens, there is an import VAT which is always gross, that is to apply VAT rates to import products after customs and other costs of imports are applied. There is a gross domestic VAT, that is the amount of VAT on all domestic transactions and there is a net domestic VAT, that is gross domestic VAT reduced for VAT refund either in domestic transactions or in export. So it's about terminology. This has nothing to do with the social product, this is a tax on extra value. As we can give you the data, all data is kept, what we follow is gross import and gross domestic, as a total charge. Since the size of vomiting is difficult to predict, we are also monitoring the gross and net movement of VAT in these reports. So when we talk about having an eight billion surplus with the last day that we have in the report, which is Friday in June, then we count both gross and net VAT, and that's how we get the net sum. As for the prize, please do not quote incorrectly and do not repeat incorrectly. I said the citizens of Serbia have submitted a sacrifice for fiscal consolidation. The reward for that is to reduce the deficit. For every dinar they've sacrificed, they've got two to three times more deficit cuts than they've sacrificed. Let me repeat the numbers so there won't be any more numbers here. The deficit has been reduced because taxes have been raised by 13.8 billion. Tax revenue has increased by 13.8 billion, VAT is 6.9, that is net VAT, excise tax 5.7 billion, customs 1.8 billion and other small things. Non-tax revenue is 28.5, a total of 42.3 billion are higher budget revenues in January – 31 March. Secondly, on the side of the expenditure, we have a 26 billion reduction in current expenditures, of which the salary, an additional two and a half billion on top of that 10% pay cut. Three billion on top of that, first of all because of the drop in energy prices, but that's also savings. Interests two billion less without calculating this effect are revaluation of interest, social contributions 2.7 billion and transfers to funds minus 18.5 billion because contributions are better paid. The total capital expenditures mentioned here are smaller, but by 8.5 billion. The total expenditure reduction is 34.5 billion, 42.3 and 34.5 totalled 76.8 billion less, the deficit was reduced compared to a plan supported by a three-year reduction in fiscal consolidation. So we've transferred the plan to 76.8 by these categories, 42 billion by revenue and 33.5 by expenditure. A key economic matter, why am I talking about excises? Because a lot of these things are liquid reductions that we can't guarantee next year. These excise duties offer us structural income in the coming years to maintain our plan for three years and two years to achieve it. That's the point, that's how you ride a boat. By making short-term cuts and then supporting them with structural measures over the longer term. So, if we switch, we're going to do our duty to the EPS or reduce the excise duty when the time comes, when we get to a situation where we have a debt reduction in the social product and a deficit that we can maintain below the level of mastery. That's 76.8. At the end of May, that would be instead of 90 projected 25, that's real data, and we expect to do the same at the end of June, so instead of 107 projected deficits, we'll have only 30. That's the 75-76 billion we've saved, distributed evenly to all these categories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30064	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30065	I thank you for your generosity to get me a replica. First of all, about terminology, what you said is true, but the question is, is the prime minister when he brings up that information and when he mentions it, he means what you said? I don't know what to say, why should we brag, just a little bit... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: What is this now? This is an insult. Would you like to silence the nervous messengers from across the street? It is absolutely pointless to brag about the increase in VAT collection if you do not have an increase in GDP. You cannot boast of something that is short - term, i.e. the consequences of what you have said in the short term. You said that I quote you wrong, look at the media, five minutes after you said all the headlines of your speech today have it. It's a title, citizens are rewarded with excises. It's got nothing to do with me. I don't run the media. As far as this website is concerned, if you're arresting her illegally, brother, don't make any noise and complain about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you haven't said a word in general about what the essence is, and that's inefficient criminal business in the EPS. It is an absolutely dark villa in Serbia where absolutely nothing is known what is done, who is hired, what is bought. In each purchase, prices are 20-50% higher than market prices. No one's paying anyone's bills. These are the reasons why you're going to the power collection, whether through the excises plus the accumulation, do you like this. You didn't tell me anything about the average price of electricity that isn't 4.9, I told you, look when the numbers that have zero consumption are down, and that's 200,000, you're going to have a second average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30066	The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30067	Article 107 is injured. We just saw that Mr. Zivkovic doesn't know what gross domestic VAT is, but he's already rising to a higher level, so he wonders, I don't know with what right, whether the prime minister knows or doesn't know, the prime minister who's been dealing with these facts and the exact data and everything they're talking about. We just heard that gross domestic VAT doesn't exist and that's what Mr. Zivkovic claimed. Now instead of making an apology to the National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the next indictment goes and the next insult of the National Assembly, but also of the prime minister. As he doesn't know there's a gross domestic VAT, so he doesn't know that covering up a crime is a crime. Since it's full of information about what crime is done in the EPS, and I think the biggest crime scene is when someone brings a storm in the middle of Nis and says, instead of paying the EPS's bills, you throw the bills into this barrel and burn the accounts. I think it's criminal political behavior. If anyone knows there's a crime within the EPS or anywhere, there are organs that investigate and do it. It's not a congregation speaker's place, it's in the Special Court of Organized Crime. The post is in the prosecutor's office, so Mr. Zivkovic can present these flat-rates. If there was evidence of such a thing, that there was a justification in all of this for certain that these charges would have both a name and a last name, and they would have had both the indictments and they would have court proceedings, and not the flat-rate, as they do not know that there is a gross domestic VAT, so I'm sure they don't know that there's a crime in the EPS, because if he knew, he'd probably say the name and name of those people who are dealing with it, and not just a blank charge on anyone's account. Please sanction it in the future, so it doesn't bomb us as it probably will in some next display, that it supplies the barrels in which it puts the bills on spent electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30068	Let me just repeat the rules of the Rules of Procedure. It's not my place to determine whether someone's telling the truth or not. Secondly, it reflects the knowledge, knowledge, or ignorance of anyone who speaks. It's his cheek, to say or his level, so I'm not going to get into it. You said what you had. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30069	Article 103, abuse of an infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the previous speaker who used it for replication, and you did not prevent him from doing so. On the contrary, you let him rephrase for two minutes and speak lies. First of my personal life, no barrels, never me, nothing about electricity, no matter what kind of character after me to come forward and say something about it, it's completely irrelevant and I never said it, and I can never say it 100 thousand times a repeated lie to become the truth. Secondly, whoever knows a little bit about the right, the competent prosecutor for knowledge, and I've given him the knowledge now that I've told him there's a crime in the EPS, knowing when the MP, even if the opposition, has to investigate and inform the public whether he has a basis for it or not. And I can tell you everywhere in the normal world there's an objective responsibility, and it's always because of that responsibility that whoever's at the top at this point is called Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30070	So, I'd like it if someone resents the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, then neither should he. You also used the last part of it to replicate. So that's a problem that's usually present. As for the very injuries of the Rules of Procedure itself, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured for the simple reason, it is Babic, as I followed him, partly replicated him, but he wasn't trying to tell me that I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I didn't respond to certain questions. I answered the way I thought it was okay. So it's not my problem to determine who's telling the truth here and who's not. So, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and your right to declare injury in the voting day? Yeah. ( ) You want to make a statement. Injury of Rules of Procedure Markovic, too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30071	Thank you, Chairman. The 107th speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Mr. Chairman, you have missed the opportunity to sanction the harshest possible term that violates the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly. So the previous speaker used the term “species ” that would come after him, referring to someone’s MP. So I really think that at the very least you had to give him a warning. I wouldn't be dealing with the ignorance shown by the previous speaker. The minister tried to explain it to him, but he obviously didn't understand it, such as the term "speak" of his home education. But I believe that counterpart Marijan Risticevic will explain to him in the best possible way since he is the next speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30072	I wouldn't comment further. Would you like to make a statement? No, I don't. ) He has the word Minister Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30073	Yes, since Mr. Zeljko mentioned two specific questions, I will give a brief answer. I don't know if you've been in the O.R., I've explained in the same words that mean the same, but I'll repeat, that the program where we've been waiting to bring the E.P.S. Business, Corporate, Organizational, Restructure Programme to find solutions to technical loss issues that are enormously high 15% to 16%, unpaid claims from 14% to 15% of the irrational corporate structure, the irrational system, inefficient high cost level, etc. That's what he says about the same things that you're talking about, and I'm just saying it from the point of view of the profession. The programme will therefore be supported by a multi-year structural loan from the World Bank to engage top experts and parallel IBRD loan on corporate restructuring of the EPS. It's all planned. We've got that in mind and we're doing it. That's it. Those programs are on the move. The first recording of the situation last December, but it lasts and it ends, it seems to me, somewhere it was planned by October, in November of the month. It is on the board of directors, and afterwards on ratification in this Parliament, a structural loan that will support restructuring primarily of public enterprises, primarily EPS and Railways, and then in the second cycle and other enterprises. So much for that. So we're considering structural transformation of the EPS and we're seriously considering it. One of the elements where we got the most reserves is how long they think it takes to change the system of public procurement, which, of course, you assume, in the previous regime was run into 13 separate companies. It's one of the concrete things. Whether there are violations of the law or not, it's the subject of someone's more detailed research, not our speculation here. As for all these other things we talked about here today, I wouldn't say it again. I have to tell you one thing, because of the long figures we're quoting, we're quoting very exact. The numbers are exaggerated, I repeat again, only for "Delta". "Delta" is an increase from January to the end of May. So from 22.8 billion to 24.1 billion. This increase consists of 750 million exchange rates and 523 million debt increases. Of which, only 25 million dinars go to finance budget deficits, and the remaining use of project loans that were part of the budget. They're effective. They were used by "The Way of Serbia, Corridor of Serbia" and other structural projects. These are all projects that were previously evaluated, which have been ratified in this House and which are now withdrawing and at the moment of withdrawal, appear as debt, or debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30074	I thank the ministers. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, do you want a replica? You have no basis for replication. The minister has quite clearly answered your question and I don't think there really is any basis for replication, especially as usually replicas are being performed in some other direction. Thank you very much. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30075	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the famous Pythagoras said - there is no way to show wisdom how much nonsense can be kept from us. I think Pythagoras was psychic and knew what a farmer would say one day in an attempt at the National Assembly. Also, there is a saying – not everyone can insult you; not everyone is worthy of you to pay attention to it and to supplement it – that he can humiliate you and insult you only better than you, and not worse. I do not know who to refer to, but I am grateful to Mr Markovic and the minister who appeared after my fellow farmer, so I believe that this insult, which tried to refer to me, did not deserve to them, and therefore I apologize to them because I believe that this was not meant for them, and that by running into the speech after my fellow farmer, they received a sanction they did not deserve. I believe that my colleague, except that he understands the pelcation of chickens in the village of Pukovce, is a false solution, except that he changes balls under matches, that he understands the electrical energy of the team before he warmly recommended to the citizens that the electricity should not be paid, so that political pressure would be applied and the regime of Slobodan Milosevic was destroyed. I believe he will try again to recommend that no electricity is paid, but I will confirm his words that the EPS is in very poor condition, in poor condition for the simple reason that we found one abandoned, abandoned, broken economy, devastated state in which the party of the former regime has raised numerous power plants, which thermal power plants, which hydroelectric power plants, which power plants to renewable energy sources etc. I tried to find at least one of those many, and I couldn't find wonders, but by going around one in Fruszca Gora, this was supposed to be a solar power plant, it seems to me that Mitrovica municipality, this is one slope on Frusca Gora, and this is a photograph two days ago. Instead of that solar power plant made by the party of the former regime and the Prime Minister of Vojvodina, etc. I found this weed that we call a cyborg in Srem, it's got ambrosia, etc. Except for that weed decay slope, I couldn't even find an "E" from the power plant. I think it might be good to plant a vineyard that Prime Minister Vojvodina now as prime minister of the republic when his mandate ceases to be planted by a vineyard and tries to withdraw some 525 thousand-euro subsidy. I think this place is the ideal place for Fruško Gora for the vineyard and because of that intention there is no solar power plant, there are no solar panels that have been planned and vehemently announced. I also have texts here...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30076	Mr. Risticevic, please go to the law, to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30077	I'm talking about electricity excise. I'm talking about why it's being introduced, why now the electricity has to collect, because we've found electricity production is flat zero, because we've found social rights broadcasting with an economy that's been in ruins, with an economy that spends 2.5 times as much electricity per unit of GDP and with housing, or with households that spend twice as much electricity as the average in Europe per square metre. That is why I think that excise money should be invested in energy efficiency, because this party of the former regime has not worked, that electricity consumption per square metre per unit of GDP is approaching the EU average. I think we've missed a lot in the energy policy. Perhaps if we had done this before, we wouldn't have had to impose on electricity, but the former regime's party didn't think to combine agriculture and energy. Only when they left power did they start copying something from our programs. In fact, I'm pushing for the integration of agriculture and energy and for us to produce as much electricity as we can from renewable sources. Serbia currently has over 400,000 hectares of abandoned agricultural land, which is, of course, the result of the former regime's party, and in order not to continuously increase those electricity excises, I recommend that we process this land, which is that we raise energy farms from the excise money by combining agriculture, livestock and the production of biomass electricity, so that we can produce electricity of 1,300 megawatts on 400 thousand hectares. On every 300 hectares, we can raise 200 to 300 head of cattle and produce one megawatt of electricity, if we sow, or plant for the feeding of cattle and for the production of renewable energy. So, I think we need to combine agriculture, we need to connect energy, so that before we use the energy produced to make primary agricultural products, that meat, milk, eggs can be managed using this electricity to process into one food or more brand of food products that we can place on domestic, surrounding markets, etc. Earlier, nothing was invested in this regard, and therefore the price of electricity should now be raised, excised, from this excise, money should be invested, on the one hand, in isolation, thermal insulation of buildings, etc., to consume as much electricity as possible as possible as a household, since we use more than half of the electricity as a household. The second half we use as an economy must also raise energy efficiency, as we use two to 2.5 times more energy per GDP unit than in EU countries. That's where I'd bet money, and that's my recommendation to the minister, too, with a recommendation not to listen to the former prime minister, who, apart from throwing the electricity bill, knew nothing else. I think it's time to invest the money we get in production, in livestock, in agriculture, and in this way to make energy farms, to raise our capacities in electricity production, and so farmers, through the production of meat, milk and energy production, more profits, and that the state has more GDP, and out of production, to raise wages and pensions, not to live as we did during the party of the former regime, but to live from the earned and that the situation that was found, as on Mars, was conditions for life, and there was no life, to overcome it. Electricity isn't expensive, but wages are cheap. We need to raise the economy, from which it will grow, in one efficient way, from raised up, higher values will grow and wages and pensions, and I think it's the only way out this country has, and everything else is demagogy, even if it's said by the former prime minister, agriculture expert, or farmer for a certain time. These days we are witnessing that a party of the former regime is trying to place itself as a power producer and you must have heard the news of their intention to outrun Tesla. Their project is called "Let's Light Serbia". I don't think they'll turn on the light in Serbia, but I believe they'll shut down the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30078	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradic has the word, and then Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30079	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, my dear Nišlia, a few days ago, when they told me about this session and when, before I looked at the agenda, they said that the Ministry of Finance was coming, I thought, Mr. Minister, that in the spirit of our conversation, when we discussed the economy, the enterprises in restructuring and when I insisted that a couple of companies that are on that list from Nis remain to be and that these people have a chance to work and create their own income. You have explained to us that this must be the case, that this time you will come with a draft amending budget where you will listen to the party's proposal "Together for Serbia" and our parliamentary groups, and that you will invest money in the launch of energy efficiency in Serbia, because we know that 1.5 million apartments in Serbia need to be isolated, that this is a terrible engine of a builder of a construction operation, companies that are working on materials that need to be installed in the insulation of façades, that you will invest part of the budget in the activation of biomass that is collapsing in our forests and reduce imports of gas and oil generators by billions of euros, which is one of the main causes of the deficit, besides others, but is one of the main deficits of our budget, that you will invest money in the activation of the mining development plan, the action plan adopted in 2012 and so that we will start mining, that we will come out of the "Hos", large firms that we will have to the future, in order to increase our budget, and to the future. You said here that I had 50 billion less deficits than planned, but you didn't say that between 15 and 20 billion benefits that we received by adopting a transfer of 2% of the health contributions to the Pension Fund and that we have so much less pension contributions, so that this introduction of excise duties, which will be most likely, judging by the mood of the congregation majority and those representing the Government, Serbian citizens will be additionally burdened at a 14.5 billion yearly level, if I have good data here, no, 17 billion, I apologize, and that by the end of the year, as of August of the month, the excise charge starts on electricity, that it will be 5.4 billion. What do I want to say to this? All of what you have positive in the budget is based on "dry drain." Do you know that in the town of Nis over 400 residents and an unknown number, an unnumbered number of private owners of buildings with a request to reduce the price of heat, i.e. remote heating. The only alternative they express if the price of remote heating is not reduced is the exclusion from district heating. They seek this for a simple reason, fearing judicial perpetrators who have begun to confiscate property in the payment of claims by "Toplana" and other public enterprises. If that happens, the entire "City Heat" system in Nis will collapse, and then the problem arises both local self-government and the assembly and government. What are we going to do with over 40,000 people winters that won't have heat? The only alternative was, at least I heard, the price of electricity. Here, now to cheer them up, to congratulate them on June 22nd, when we adopt the first time, we change the Excise Bill and adopt the electricity excise, where, as I have listened, it will be good for everyone, because the budget is being filled. There is only one problem, dear friends, there is Serbia outside Belgrade, there is Serbia where currently 38% of the working population is not working in Nis. What are they going to pay from? That's why I insist that the National Assembly and the Government make the most of their budget to start what we have, which is our resources, not waiting for big companies, because big companies can't employ hundreds of thousands of people. They are necessary, but without the launch of agriculture, without increasing the surfaces under irrigation, which give three to four times more products than they are in the state of their present state, without the start of the construction industry, without the movement of the chemical industry, without the start of the oil industry, and we also talked about it, Mr. Minister, on one of the past sightings, that it is necessary to insist that NIS adapt its processing capacity to be able to process so-called. Deep oil when our reserves are exhausted, so we don't lose the oil industry. So this is how with this party's proposal together for Serbia, and we believe deeply my SDS and Green Serbia parliamentary group, we will not support this proposal, because we think this is just an additional imposition on citizens of Serbia, which they can no longer pay. Serbian citizens want to pay their taxes, want to meet their obligations, but there is one basic question – from where? I totally understand you're fighting for the budget. You're looking at that side of the medal, and I'm telling you, get out of the ministry and walk the cities to see what the state of the city's budgets is, what is the state of the economy in Serbia. Whoever it was before, you're responsible now and you get the mandate of Serbian citizens saying it would be better, not to whine as it was worse, so it can't be better. No, you've been given a mandate to be better and it's your obligation to be better in Serbia. Come see what it looks like in the city of Nis, where we have a debt for public lighting over 200 million. Should they cut the power again? That's what you need, Mr. Minister, to take care of. Get rid of increasing costs on the burden of Serbian citizens, because, at least as far as Nis citizens are concerned, there is nowhere to be paid. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30080	The word has a folk MP, Momir Stojanovic, and then Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30081	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is expected to share in today's debate on the Amendments and Supplements Act of Excises such a harsh controversy, because it is simply, surely, I share the opinion of all my colleagues here in this room, this is one of the unpopular measures directly related to the standards of our citizens. But when a man listens to my predecessors, above all from opposition parties, he asks himself the question - how much are we hypocrites when we earnestly advocate the harmonisation of excise policy with EU countries, and even with regard to electricity and other regulations, on the one hand, declaring ourselves to support and pursue a once-arranged system like the EU, and on the other hand, we use every opportunity to make every move of this government that is aimed at achieving these goals so strongly? So the question is, are our goals true and are our intentions sincere? Because if the signing of the Energy Community Treaty between the European Community and the countries of Southeast Europe created a single, stable and regulatory framework for cross-border energy trade, because the countries of the signatories, including Serbia, have accepted the applicable general rules in the field of energy, these rules also include the harmonisation of energy prices, such as Mr Minister and said that this is an integral part of the package and the Agreement with the IMF. I would like to see if representatives of opposition parties, by which case or opposition parties today were in power, would they accept the same measure if it were an integral part of the Agreement with the IMF and if it was aimed at the implementation of three objectives, as the president said at harmonising excise policy with EU countries. Secondly, the reduction in losses, and here there have been a lot of words about the losses in the EPS, and I agree that there is space, and we heard from the minister what measures are planned to restructure the EPS, and I believe that some bodies related to the numbers Mr. Zivkovic was talking about, but I can't forgive him at all, all of them, and that I will, which some problems have arisen by the irresponsible behaviour of some political leaders in the past, Mr. Zivkovic, in Nis. You won't be able to deny me that you haven't called on citizens not to pay bills for electricity, so these losses have been dating and these losses are going through the cost of energy, which they jump every day, they can't cover. In accordance with the contract signed, the harmonisation of the rules and on this basis was also adopted by the current Energy Act, which regulates the efficient functioning of market electricity. The increase in electricity prices, which will take place, as the minister said, from 1 August and by a proposal to amend this law, will be 12%. Four and a half percent is an increase in electricity prices, and seven and a half will create conditions for investing in our country's energy system. Only four and a half are planned to reduce our losses today in the EPS. Based on the current price of electricity, some of the experts I tried to consult these days say the previous 10 years have been lost due to the inadequate price of electricity from seven and a half to 20 billion dinars due to, you will agree, the social policy that has been led over the past 12 years, rather than the real economic price of electricity, which has also affected the reduction of investment in electricity facilities. All this leads to even greater technical and non-technical losses specifically in the southeast, in Nis as one of the EPS companies. Five billion dinars are paid on an annual basis only on the basis of losses, while the cost of total losses at the EPS level is due to this social price of electricity, at some estimates of around 30 billion dinars. This problem can be multipled unless we resort to the proposed solutions in the amendment and addition of this law. The collection of electricity, although realistically not responding to the current economic situation and the poor material situation of our citizens, will create preconditions for a stable and efficient supply of electricity. I would refer to some remarks here regarding the requirements of the Niš Assembly, where I come from, as well as my colleague, Mr Bradic. I would remind Mr. Bradic that he knows that at all these gatherings and in these tenants the same people who are politically manipulated and manipulate the citizens of Nis. We have assessed and analysed, even at the level of the party from which I come, at the city level, and some measures will be taken in terms of subsidies to the socially most vulnerable citizens of Nis, what the Nisa City budget can endure. You said 38% of Nish citizens don't work today. Mr. Bradiæ, whether consciously or unconsciously, you do not want to present another fact. Is it possible for 12 years to devastate Nisha's economy to rise in two years? Do you know, and you know, and I know that you are well informed, in what state the political option that I belong to in 2012 took over the management of the city of Nis, with what losses in the city budget? Who made those losses? Do you show a degree of impatience for all these measures that the Government is taking, even in the area of harmonisation of electricity prices? Do you really not think that the moves in the right direction or perhaps, which I am inclined to think, you and some representatives of the opposition parties in this House are aware that the measures that this government is taking faster than the citizens think and expect will bring improvement to their standard, so you are nervous, because it immediately means that all the criticisms that you are currently exhibiting about this government will fall into the water, and thus your political rating and influence in this society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30082	I ask the Members of Parliament not to address other MPs during the discussion. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Zoran Zivkovic, do you want a replica? I don't see a basis for replication. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I was mentioned twice! Mr. Zivkovic, don't shout, please. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: So what are you playing?- I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Zivkovic, you won't scare me at all. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: So who scares you?- I'm sorry. Then don't yell. So what do you think, I'm gonna be scared of your screams? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, you're doing your job! Please, Zivkovic. I followed well. Mr. Stojanović... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Don't stall any longer, give me the replica! I won't give you a replica, because you have no basis for replication. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I was mentioned twice! That's not enough reason, let me tell you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: And what is it? ) Mr. Stojanović mentioned only your name because of the call for non-payment of electricity, and that is true. What do you have to replicate more? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What? How can you not be ashamed? ) The Republic has Mr Blazic, he has a basis. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Who are you to judge what is true?- I'm sorry. Mr. Zivkovic, I have enough patience, if you continue to do so, I will give you a warning. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Bliss. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: The injury of the Rules of Procedure! I, Mr. Zivkovic, have already given my word to Mr. Blažić, and you cannot just answer as you wish. Have a seat. (National Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic approaches the speaker. Don't come near me, please. Mr. Bradiche, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30083	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An esteemed colleague has provided some information, and I am aware that the current political majority, either in the City of Nis or here in parliament, blames everything that happened in the City of Nis, is probably some sort of manner of all governments, including yours. Just one piece of information, as far as the assignments are concerned...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30084	Excuse me, Mr. Braddick, please, just one minute, I'll give you time. Because of Mr. Zivkovic's misbehaving, I give him a warning. He approached an unauthorized speaker, although I told him not to approach the pay phone and yet he insulted me. He said: “This army was strong for you. “ I am proud of that army, Mr. Zivkovic. I was an honorable and honest general. Therefore, Mr. Zivkovic, I ask you to take care of your conduct. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I wish you good health. Mr. Bradich, I'm asking you to re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30085	I did. Thank you. So, just a few data. Citizens of Nis and Serbian citizens should appreciate who is right. So the Nish City Assembly just over a month ago voted a loan of over a billion dinars, so much for borrowing. Is everything going to go... I'd ask my colleagues, I listen to everything carefully, not like sitting heads and intellectuals to earn. I'm really asking you. I still have to concentrate on what I mean, people are watching. The way money's gonna be spent, it's gonna show time. Your congregational majority and your government in the city allowed the soup kitchen to not work for a year and a half, allowed the primary and secondary schools that are in the city's control to be blocked, and today they are in a blockade, allowing Nis for the first time after the bombing to be without electricity for a few days due to unpaid bills, allowing the debt to be measured by public enterprises by hundreds of millions. I can only get that data out, and you gentlemen blame everything that's happening now for what's happened in 2012, 2010, 2008, 2006, it's your right. God willing, we'll see each other in the election, so people will say who made more mistakes, whether you ever did it to me now. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30086	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30087	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished ministers, respected citizens, Mr Vujovic, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I assume the SNS, you said that citizens were rewarded for new duties, when it comes to electricity prices. As far as the reward is concerned, just to remind you of all those that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, citizens, already had the opportunity to process, the awards, when it comes to the increase in the tax on property, the increase in electricity prices, then the increase in electricity, which you are proposing today to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and free textbooks have been abolished, the VAT on basic life supplies has also been increased, we have reduced, on the other hand, wages and pensions, local self-governments have abolished social benefits, including the City of Belgrade, the price of medicines has been increased, and we have finally come to a large shortage of the same. You're saying that it's not a related thing and that all these increases in prices and increases in loads are not related things. Personally, I don't think the citizens know from what levels the SNS burdens their wallets, home budgets with some new imposings anymore because they can no longer connect from 1 to 30 in the month, Mr. Minister. You're saying we're doing fine. And who's doing so well? To you, as ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, your business environment supported by the SNS? Who's doing so well? I don't think anyone in Serbia is doing well without it being directly linked to the chaires of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're reducing, you say, the deficit in the state budget, and you don't understand or you won't understand that this increases the deficit in the domestic budgets of Serbian citizens. Citizens no longer have money and you are constantly giving us statistics, as if someone in Serbia lives in a table of some financial analyst. You may also be able to reduce the deficit in the state budget, only to warn you that it is entirely possible for us to run out of citizens, Mr Vujovic, because they will not have anywhere to live, they will have nothing to pay for electricity, thus paying for basic life supplies, they will not eventually have the opportunity to, together with some other generations coming to Serbia to form life in this country. You're talking about being so-called. Excise, which is just another additional imposition, is needed to exist when it comes to electricity, electricity used daily in Serbia for basic living needs, it is not a luxury to be further taxed. Electricity in Serbia is neither alcohol nor tobacco, and if it has a special excise duty, it is not oil derivatives imported, so that there is a special excise duty, or a special price increase. Then why is electricity excise goods and why is it subject to a new tax cut? You say that's the case with EU members. Whenever there is no additional argument, we are calling on the EU. Serbia, at this pace, will not enter the EU for the next 20 years. Half of the EU member states have no force when it comes to electricity. Here, Romania and Bulgaria have pro forms for, it's zero percent, and I'm sure you know that. Then why is Serbia with 12% additional burden on citizens, despite increasing the tax on property and VAT and many other things burdening the budget of citizens, while salaries and pensions have been reduced, Mr Vujovicu? What are the awards that you give to Serbian citizens, at a time when Serbia is struggling not to end up on the edge of poverty, like many third-world countries? This is the direction in which your economic policy and finance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is going. I end up reminding the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS that the IMF programme agreed on the collection of electricity not only for 2015, but also a new collection for 2016. Then what kind of government has succumbed and caved to IMF pressure, and contrary to the interests of citizens? I think the total debacle has experienced this government. I believe that citizens are those who are damaged and your economic policy will definitely lead to only one percent of people in Serbia having the means to live with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30088	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30089	Please, don't repeat the constructed, not accurate, malicious statements, or writing in newspapers that have nothing to do with facts. Please don't do this. That really doesn't make sense. You were here, or if you weren't, you were obliged to be here, I, what you're saying, I didn't say, someone wrote it somewhere, and I don't follow what happens while we're in this room. That's one. Therefore, I said that citizens will be rewarded for their sacrifice and they are already rewarded by reducing the deficit by two to one for every dinar they have saved, we have reduced the deficit 2.5 times. That's how we prepare the ground to heal this country, to get out of the problems we inherited, we didn't make them ourselves. Please overcome your party frameworks. Whom the people, Serbia, support, are seen in the elections, this is seen in a public opinion survey. I think this government enjoys much more trust than you would want. I'm sorry, but that's right. As for Bulgaria and Romania. They have a price of 9 cents in Bulgaria, of which 1.49 cents refers to the fiscous, in Romania 12.5 cents per kilowatt, of which 3.42 cents refers to fiscal fees. Serbia has 4.9 and only 1.06 relating to fiscal duties. Therefore, you calculate the amount of burden, whether it's called tax, or excise, it's perfect for citizens anyway. So it's got twice the price of electricity and almost twice the rate of fiscous in it. Those funds will be necessary to achieve the structural side of revenue increases, I must repeat and repeat. So the structural side is important in order to achieve all those objectives that we have entered these reforms, which is a temporary reduction in wages, pensions and wages to solve the structural problems we inherited, to get to the clearing, to attract third-generation investments and to provide the future for this country, which has been wandering for 30 years, is not known which way and which way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30090	Thank you. Mr. Bozovicu, you want a replica? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Yes. On what basis? Please to Bozovic. I mean, let's face it, I followed the minister well, he just responded to your discussion and gave the answer. He asked you to base your discussion on the words he said in this assembly, not on other means, to say, informing and I don't think anything else is. So I don't really see the basis for replication. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30091	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, you know, Mr. Vujovic, ignorance is always ready to admire itself. That's not what I made up, that's what Nikola Boalo, a famous French writer, said in the 17th century, and you proved today that you didn't need us here at all. With so much noise, no arguments, no knowledge, no nonsense. I think that today we lost one day that we could certainly have spent much more productively and among our citizens, talking to them, because you proved that you couldn't hear anything smart on the other hand, something meaningful, except that they showed the citizens of Serbia and the whole people that they didn't know any economic terms or economic logic at all, or what was done in the state, and that they were just about to mention what they had left for the citizens of Serbia. I'm sorry that the previous speaker escaped from the O.R. because I had a lot to tell him, when he was already talking about the increase in electricity, taxes and everything that the country took with severe measures and painful measures to save our economy and take the country out on one straight path and leave for generations to come to a normal state, a state in which to live with dignity. Has DS raised and increased electricity bills in the past? Yeah, for a thousand and something. But by raising the electricity bill, by raising taxes, by all charges and by small, medium, large economy, for all citizens of Serbia and the country's deficit was not smaller, but more and more. Well, I don't understand where that money was going and in whose pockets it was going. Today, when we want to coordinate something with the EU, the European community, etc., and again we have a far lower price of electricity in our country, on the other hand we show responsibility for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the deficit of 8.8% today, in June, 0.8% which is a historic success thanks to Alexander Vukic, and thanks to you, Mr Vujovic, because you had the courage, without political calculations, without anyone, to squeeze the loop, and to tell the people the time has come for us to change something, what others have done in the first place, when they dragged our hands into our pockets, it's time to change it. Mr Bozovic, who escaped from this hall, mentions local self-government, that social benefits have been abolished, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30092	Please, Mr. Jovic, don't call the MPs of the other party. _Other Organiser
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30093	Who aren't here? All right. Chairman, if you will allow me to proceed. When I'm talking about the city of Belgrade. Well, who's proud of the Belgrade policy they've run in the past? You managed to reduce the 8.8% deficit, leaving a 21.5% deficit in Belgrade, a historic deficit in Belgrade's history. Well, be careful how they acted, and they had, say, social contributions and help the most vulnerable and so on, by leaving us with incredibly high debts. You're talking about local self-government, and I'm sorry that the previous speaker left, what kind of social givings you're talking about in Belgrade's territory in municipalities, or local self-government. Well, I can talk about how much you rob. You know, when you talk about corruption in Serbia that flourished until 2012, it's easy to say DS, but I would call all the problems in Serbia and all the affairs the right name and I wasn't afraid to always call them, which is both Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas and everyone else today Pajtic in Vojvodina. And I come from the Palilula municipality where I talk to our fellow citizens every day, so there I heard about some new names on the political scene, or old but not enough, and these are also some king of illegal construction Danilo Basic, so some Beca, Stojan Nikolic, who robs people who can barely survive for any permission he needs to get in the way of legalization and everything else. I'm willing to call everyone what they call their last name when we talk about corruption and crime and robbing our people. It's not enough just to tell DS or any other party. Also, if there's information that someone is doing it from the SNS or that anyone is protecting someone from another party who does it, I'm also going to call it a real name and I'm not afraid of it. So I'm fed up listening to great experts who had 15 years of time to change Serbia, to fix the deficit, to fix the state register, except they knew they were robbing it, to give a lecture today. You know what hurts me even more, the Honorable Chairman, and when they talk about the people, about the citizens, there's only one demagogy and one great act. You can't see anything behind those phrases behind those words that can feel like some emotion they might feel. And to feel that since 2000 they have filled only their pockets and that account that will increase by three or four percent, it is easy for them to pay, but how much they took from that EPS pair, how much they took from the Ministry of the Army, how much they took from the City of Belgrade, in all possible tenders that they worked and conducted in this country, none of them were clean. Today they find it appropriate to give a lecture to people who have certain and visible and tangible results and who say it's not great, it's not great, but that finally the state is starting to recover and that in this most important segment and citizens will feel it as soon as possible. I wouldn't go any further, since I have no one left to talk to, everyone's gone. I just want to tell you, and I want to welcome that you have managed to act as a gathering that is certainly not easy in this assembly to vote on, nor to support, but it is necessary that we continue to recover our budget. I want to thank you for looking at it to be minimal, to the least possible extent as an increase, and we had some before us who raised it 20 and 30%, and not every year, but three times in one year, and today they teach lessons and lectures. Congratulations, Mr. Vujovic. Congratulations to the Prime Minister. We're going to support these measures, we know they're not easy, but I expect that with these results that you've just delivered in one really responsible way, and the other on the other hand has shown enormous ignorance. I think Serbia will finally move forward, and we will finally recover our budget and what others have been destroying for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30094	Thank you. Replica, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30095	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I really don't understand why such a pointless subject is opening up. What was the price of electricity in 2001? What was it like in 1999 or 1998 or 1997? What was the price of electricity, we want to talk about it today or are we going to talk about the future? If we talked about how public money should be spent, if we wanted the efficiency of the Elektroprivreda, if we discuss it as MPs of the opposition and rarely have the right to replication, then it is not necessary to respect us every year when someone else was in power before? The gentlemen were in power in the '90s and I don't think we should discuss it today. We need to talk about how we will make life easier for Serbian citizens and raise their standards. But we won't do it by the director of the Elektroprivreda filling the third building in Belgrade "Governmental building since he came to new employees." If the reception of new party personnel had been stopped, if only only for the natural outflow, Mr. Minister, we would have had a sufficient number of employees at Elektroprivreda since 2012. Elektroprivreda would make profits without accounting acrobatics and you could have budget benefits. Now, just because of this party state that has reached its peak under the authority of this and the previous government, I think we have a situation that public enterprises are in a far worse position, that we must today, through the savings of citizens, finance these things. When it comes to alleged exchange rates, and now they're unfavourable course differences, they're unfavourable interest rates. That's what you're all for sure. They were more unfavourable interest rates earlier, they're more favourable today, and that's something that doesn't depend on Serbia or our system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30096	Thank you. You've wasted your time. I thank you, MP. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30097	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. When there are no arguments for discussion, then we have insults. He insults that someone doesn't know he's stupid or that he's running away. Unfortunately, all these insults cannot hide the fact, which is that today we have a bill that will introduce excise for the first time in Serbia's history. Electric energy in 2015, so it becomes a luxury commodity, because excises are usually, I say, taxing it's a kind of tax, luxury goods. It doesn't always have to mean, but the rule of one by definition is that it's that kind of stuff. But, Mr. Minister, I, here, listen to the debates here by my colleagues who support and will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30098	You're replicating, I'm sorry. Please, MP, listen to me. Replicate, so you're not talking to the MP, you're not talking to the minister, you're just talking to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30099	I'm talking about arguments I speak in replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30100	But I know very well what it means – Mr. Minister. It's a direct address in the Serbian dictionary. Be kind enough to respect this business remark. Thank you very much. I'll give you 10 seconds back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30101	Madam President, here I speak to you directly. Thank you. How, with such spectacular results in the budget and major reforms, unprecedented results, we introduce a new imposition on citizens to fill that same budget. I understand your arguments, but your arguments are not repeated by fellow MPs who will vote for this law. They tell a different story. They say it's great and wonderful and that I don't know what the results are, and they're not, they're temporary, so the money isn't spent in that budget, but something else is filled. Tax collection is not yet at the level of 2012, make a plan, so you will have more money than you introduce these excises.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30102	Thank you. I counted you in for 15 seconds. Thank you very much. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replication or violation of the Rules of Procedure, I don't care. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It doesn't matter, it can't do that... ) Please don't yell at us, when we can communicate nicely, and the MP will tell us if he wants a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure, don't always be you who are going to yell at us, who are going to warn us how we are going to work, calm down, please, for the sake of democracy and this Parliament. Just calm down and everything will be fine. Please tell me, on what grounds? I thank and return the time, 35 seconds. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Make it a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30103	Of course, thank you. It is not only clear to me why we are suffering senseless insults here that something and that the speeches of the MPs are pointless, just because they return in time do not have to return at the time of 2001 or 2002, but I would like my colleagues to explain to me why they supported, voted and wanted to talk about it affirmably, the increase in electricity from March 1, 2008. It's not that far, it's not 15 years, it's so close. We remember Mr. Cvetkovic. So on 1 March 2008, 7.6%; on 1 August 2008, 8.4%; on 1 March 2010, 10% and 1 April – April 15.1% increase in electricity prices. Whether it's called excise or not I don't know how, the electricity price has increased, you've increased the electricity price in 2011 by 15.1%. Since then, there has been no increase in electricity prices. Citizens who are watching us now, whether it's called excise or not, what matters to them is how much they're going to get at the end of the month. You with your perilous policy, because in one year alone, in 2011, your director of Elektroprivreda Srbija, only for a media campaign, beware, the marketing of public enterprises and the only company that distributes electricity, paid the marketing of 343 million dinars, 343 million dinars or 2% of what is expected throughout the year to increase excise duty. What about how you spent that money, what were you giving it for? I see people having such a happy chat here in the O.R., they absolutely don't care what someone else is saying and they're only dealing with the things they're saying, but they're saying more about them than they are about us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30104	Thank you. Ambassador Djurisic, you signed up in the first second. Why? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Can I have a word? Since you said it in advance, I'm going to replicate, and I don't see what you're doing here. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: There is the same base as Mr. Babic. It's not the same base, you were saying something and challenging a replica. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: He spoke the same way as me. I don't mind, we can keep going, I don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30105	Dear President, if this is now a debate on how the EPS system has been run all these years until 2012, we can also talk about it, although I think it deserves a special session and a special topic, because a lot of different things are done now compared to that time. By 2012, it's not the 15-year power that you lightly attribute to someone, because you seem to be in power today, and you've been in power for three years, but somehow forget it. By 2012, all the blocks in TE “Nikola Tesla” were revitalised and this installed the new 250 megawatts of power and it is a complete block. What was done in these three years in the EPS? Has a single block of thermal power been revitalized? Is a new megawatt of power also created in a thermal and hydro facility at EPS power-generating facilities? Have regular big remonts been made? No, they're not. There won't be money, because this power increase isn't going to EPS, there's no EPS development. There are budget fillings here, a hole in the budget that hides from the citizens of Serbia talking about how great and great we are, by not paying the commitments that the state has, by paying the VAT for more than a month, and then there's some money in the account and it's said -- here's a smaller deficit. You can see, I have no idea how money is spent in the budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30106	Thank you. So this was a replica, but more of a follow-up discussion. I don't understand who you're replicating right now, but the minister answered because you're talking about something, what you wanted, to be honest. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30107	It's very important that we talk on the basis of facts. First, the EPS has spent most of its time, energy, and money over the past 12 months to restore production that has been questioned by floods. So the return of the Dark One and all other plants to the plant was what was achieved. As you know, we're in charge of the World Bank for ERL, the so-called emergency loan that gro went to the power company, getting spare parts, pumping and everything else, and it's all going through the budget. Therefore, it is the first thing that has happened over the past 12 months, where the state has largely taken over guarantees and liabilities and imports of electricity to ensure a smooth supply during this critical period. We expect only in July that the production of coal and electricity will return to last year's level. So it's a comeback, it's a big effort, but we're going to go back to a zero point from last year, unfortunately, that's a fact, because we had to remove the effects of the flood. Secondly, as you know, "Kostolac B" has been agreed and will be realised again with the guarantee of the state of 600 to 700 million. You're absolutely right, there's been nothing done for a whole series of years, but now it's done. Under the circumstances, the additional capacity was not necessary since production was at a lower level. We are now preparing ourselves, all of what we are doing, to free up capacity and open new capacities, expecting an increase in production, more electricity consumption and everything else. Not only that, we want to support electricity savings, electricity substitution, we want people in Serbia to have a bill to buy light bulbs that save 7-1 by 11 watts give light to 75 watts, etc. what all countries in the world are doing. We're the only ones who don't care about doing it, so it's sold in a few small shops. It's being sold all over the place, including fiscal incentives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30108	Thank you. Time's up for the replica. I give my word to Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30109	Mr President, the Honorable Ministers' Movement for PRECRET will not support this law amending the Excise Act. You, Mr. Vujovic, can call this the Law on Change and Complementary of the Act on Excises, but you can call this and I call this a harrassor and impose on citizens of Serbia. As of tomorrow, you will be in favour of Mr Vujovic, or when this law is passed in this National Assembly, and I see that the MPs support this imposition and applaud you, from tomorrow on, parents will have to impose when they want to cook the child's milk and will think carefully about whether they will cook it. Just laugh at Mr. Vujovic, you might find it funny because parents will pay the excise because when they want the child to bake an egg and do you think it's a normal state and a responsible state? You speak to Mr Vujovic when you explained this law this morning, that it is also true in the European Union that there are actions in the European Union on electricity. You have not said in one word how much wages are paid in the European Union, that they are 10 to 50 times higher in some countries than in Serbia. Why are you hiding this truth, Mr Vujovic, and why do you say that you reward the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by imposing electricity on a light bulb that you need to light up to teach the child for school? Do you know, Mr Vujovic, when you compare Serbia with the EU, that we have not reached standards in the field of environmental science, in the field of justice, in the field of health, in education, and that you are compared here to raise prices and bring new charges. Just compare yourself here, and every time you come to this Assembly, you come with such solutions and your colleagues and raise VAT, taxes and pay and pension cuts, and now by introducing electricity excises. No government has ever tried that in Serbia, but this law is, we could say, shameful for the reason that there are certain provisions in it, you're liberating some people from excise duties. You free from excise duties on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages owned by airlines and shipowners, read: Etihad. And don't you ever come here in the Assembly or Prime Minister Mr. Vukic, without bringing any benefits for a foreign company, the type of "Beograda on Water", the last time you were here, and the last time Mr. Vukic spoke about electricity he spoke about – pay the electricity Kamberi. And how much, Mr. Vujovicu, is the electricity charge, which is the percentage of the electricity charge in Serbia, you know? Did you talk about it this morning and who's going to pay for this electricity? Fifty, sixty people who pay, will your tycoons pay for electricity, which they don't pay now? Will Mr Vujovic be resolved, do you know how many party personnel have been employed in Serbia's electricity industry? Did you talk about it this morning? You haven't said a word. Now be angry with the press, that you said – Serbian citizens will be rewarded; by not being able to bake an egg to the children, Mr Vujovic. Where are your reform measures? Where's the production lift? All you know is that you cut and cut, load on the back of Serbian citizens, Mr Vujovic, and that's your policy. And do you know Mr. Vujovic how those who encourage you have done this before? Look at this. You know what this is? This is a bill that was "paid" under quotes while they were in power, up to those years when they said electricity prices went up. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven zeroes, I don't know where you were at that time. Michaela Pupin is on this bill. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight zeroes, Jovan Ducic. Mr Vujovicu, Mr Vujovicu, this may be funny to you, but Serbian citizens are not funny. You brought unrest into the Serbian citizens' houses today. In every house that lives from its work and past work, or pensions, Mr Vujovicu. Pull this law, pull this law, Mr. Vujovic, this is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30110	I thank you, MP. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. You can't have a replica, he didn't mention you. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the town: The memorial. Nothing, I have to give the minister a head start, that's what the Rules of Procedure says. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. And you can't change your mind, then this, then that. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: I don't have to... This is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, you can answer it, don't argue. Here you go, Minister, I'll give it to you later, and you can't tell the replica, and then this, it's abuse. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30111	I don't know who he was when he was in the O.R., but I need to repeat some facts that are very important. Prior to the proposed amendments to the Excise Act and afterwards, Serbia will be among the countries with the least participation in the price of electricity, it has been used for eggs either for milk or for anything else. Therefore, Serbia remains to have the cheapest electricity price in Europe. Secondly, the capital costs of Serbia's Elektroprivreda are mostly borne directly or indirectly by the state and so will be in the future, as I mentioned earlier. Thirdly, our goal is to get closer to the standards, as I said at the outset, of Europe according to the directive that I set out in 2003, and we don't want to exceed that, we're going to be a country, or at the moment we're a country with the lowest rate after Great Britain, but it's not comparable because Great Britain has almost 20 cents per kilowatts of electricity price. Serbia certainly has the lowest price in the region, and after this increase it will continue to be the lowest with comparable countries in our region and across Europe. Why does it matter? For saving. Why does it matter? Because of the signal for everyone to invest in energy savings, in energy substitution, introducing, if you want, more efficient windows, a more efficient heating system and everything else, we need to release capacities for future growth of industry. As far as budget deficits are concerned, what is the role of excise duty in the budget deficit? We achieved 76.8 billion less deficits than planned, and that was planned on a three-year fiscal consolidation line. This is evenly distributed between tax hikes, to round up, 14 billion, non-tax revenues 28 billion, with lower current expenditures of 26 billion, lower capital expenditures 8.5. Yeah, they're smaller, but they're only 8.5. So that's a little bit more, 12% of the savings are reduced expenditure on capital investments, and that's what we're going to try to fix, but that's not all. From your discussions, it looks like that's all. That's how we achieved the result that I find impressive, but it's in current savings. In order to qualify next year, if you want to talk here, to make Serbian citizens feel better, we need to achieve an increase on the structural side of the budget, which is achieved either by permanent income sources or by a permanent cost reduction. Since we want some spending, so-called. The cost of social consequences, we revise and make a correction, if we can, I talked about it, not about the reduction as a correction, but about the correction to allow citizens to feel better about these results, then we have to have permanent sources of income, very simple. That's what I mean by structural deficit. That's the difference. So the structural ones are different from the current ones because the current ones include all the savings, including one-time savings. We don't know if we're going to make this kind of savings next year, that is, this amount of income, non-tax revenues, because it will depend on the company's success, and it depends on many factors. Secondly, I don't know if we're going to make that kind of savings on transfers, PIO and RSZ funds, because they also have the effects of many things. We can't control how many people are going to retire and how much we're going to be able to collect taxes and contributions to the salaries that go into those funds. So this year we improved it, and that's why we had to transfer 18 billion less. The PIO and RSZ address us based on the state of their incomes. What they fail to collect, they replace from the budget. So we're getting old, but I don't know if we're gonna make it next year. That is why we need to achieve more sustainable sources of income in order to re-examine the situation with or without the Fund and enable Serbian citizens to improve both in pensions and in public sector wages and, above all, in investment, to start production. So there's a whole series of old people that you're talking about where we absolutely agree, but it's our turn -- first we have to clean up the fiscal side, so we can move on to all of these other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30112	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30113	Thank you, Your Honor. I have never really abused the Rules of Procedure, nor will I do so in the future. Under Article 104(1), in any case, I have the right to replication. It is not possible to undermine the social responsibility of the SPS at the time it is called for, in fact, by malignancy and pulsism, who said MP Janko Veselinovic. At the time of sanctions, at the time of the huge exodus of the Serb population, at the time of the Serbian population's misery, we preserved social peace, and his party in 2001, when we are already talking about social responsibility to citizens, did the following. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure... ) In 2001 alone, at the same time, the government had three adjustments to electricity prices, and for these three adjustments, through three increases in electricity prices, which we are discussing today, the price of electricity is increased 100%. One hundred percent, honourable MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are also talking about this social responsibility of the SPS support and parliamentary group to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is now headed by the state, Minister Vujovic, who is authorised by the legislator of these laws, this set of laws, and I repeat, these are the reasons, in addition to the highlighted, as the authorised representative, I have already brought them out, to support these laws without reservation. And because someone doesn't like it and what makes a populist story in real facts, let the citizens evaluate it in future elections, no matter what the party's name is, to whom the one who brought these insinuations belongs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30114	You didn't understand. This was somebody else's replica. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, the same violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30115	I'm not sure on what basis you gave Mr. Ned Jovanovic your word. I didn't say that he made these zeroes on a bill that was paid for, while it was, by all accounts, he was the one who decided in Serbia. But I won't waste my words on it. I'll answer what the minister said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30116	What member? You said it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Be kind, tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30117	No, I was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30118	I didn't give you a replica. If it didn't turn out wrong to me today, you cried out: "The violation of the Rules of Procedure after the first four or five words." I'm following it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30119	I said - Mr. Nejko Jovanovic took the word by the Rules of Procedure and spoke as a replica. That's what I drew your attention to. He's replicated, and you gave him your word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30120	Well, well, I don't fit on my back. I guess I know who yelled at me at what point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30121	I don't know how you guys hook up, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30122	The lady who catches the notes knows exactly when you cried out, at which point, after how many words said "The Businessman", you, and later Mr Babic. That's why you got the advantage. Don't use that kind of stuff. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30123	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President, Article 106. I respect your research, which we share, and all the other MPs, when Mr. Janko Veselinović spoke, because he spoke as if it were monetary policy law or, at some point, I thought we were in a channel describing recipes or where the kitchen or some food storage is. In any case, after this presentation today, I can understand what made him choose and why we have a very often EPP here for a turnaround. Now I understand, because at the moment he exercised power, he was pleased that he increased the electricity price twice in 2008, by just over 16%, and on 1 August and 1 August. And then milk was cooked, and then eggs were fried. And then the citizens of Serbia used electricity, but that was fine. For Mr. Vesenovic, until he turned around, it was also appropriate for him to increase electricity by 10% on March 1st 2010. And then the eggs were cooked, and then the milk was cooked. And on April 1, 2011, by 15%, and then, Mr. Vesenovic, until he turned around, he was comfortable with the EPS, imagine, one football club, for one year, giving 80 million dinars. Whose money? All citizens of the Republic of Serbia and those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who cook milk fry their eggs to their children. At the time, he didn't ask why the EPS, a large public enterprise, needed an advertising campaign for only one year worth 343 million dinars. How many cooked and fried eggs are there? How much milk is that? But until he turned around, it all worked out for him. Now that it's turned around, now something's not right for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30124	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30125	I only have one addition, since Mr. Vesenovic asked the question of the formulation in the law, which refers to the treatment of duty-free goods. I just want to point out that the old formulation in the law was – the excise duty is being released by those which the manufacturer, i.e. the importer, is being shipped for sale in airplanes and ships. Only a change has been made to the formulation – which the manufacturer dispatches, i.e. the importer puts in a customs warehouse, opened in accordance with customs regulations, for sale in aircraft and ships, or for the supply of aircraft and ships that traffic international lines. It's just precision. It's a standard formulation. You know it's a juti fri in airplanes, ships, in all other places that are legally defined. Nothing in the law has changed, it's just being precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30126	Let's move on. We talked a lot about fried eggs, hot dogs, we're back on the subject. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Ambassador, that's enough. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30127	Thank you, Your Honor, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not, as an independent MP, persist in bypassing what is the subject of today's agenda, I will not be making a fuss, I will not speak false, nor any nonsense. So, I will stick to what is the agenda point, and today it is on the agenda of several laws, of which it is certainly the most important proposal for a law on amendments to the Excise Act. What is most important to point out in the beginning is that this is certainly the continuation of the responsible policy carried out by the Serbian government, a policy that does not close its eyes to problems, a policy that does not deal with demagogy, a policy that does not allow it to be carried by the momentum of political practice from the past. It was a practice of aligning all state and national interests with the mere interest, i.e. the rating of one then ruling party, and now fortunately the party of the former regime. How much a failure we felt as citizens, as well as that party in the elections. We cannot say for them now that it is too much damage, but Serbia's citizens suffer the consequences today anyway. I notice with one of the previous speakers, an independent MP, an attempt to get away from that and such a policy, an attempt to get away from that party, but it can't do that, Mr. Vesenovic. You're out of that party...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30128	Ambassador, please speak to me, do not replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30129	I'm sorry. Madam Chairman, he got out of that party, and then he got out of another party...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30130	It doesn't matter. You've been given your word to talk about the bill. Let the MP out, enter whatever party he wants, because that's his right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30131	So, for all the reasons I mentioned earlier, this government has to implement today and, what one would say, unpopular measures, and these are certainly unpopular measures, and I would add the necessary measures and therefore, Mr Vujovic, I do not really envy you at the position. To me, the most important thing here is to highlight a few things. First, these measures continue the programme of active fiscal consolidation, consolidation of the state budget and recovery of public finances. I think it's clear to everyone and I don't think there's any dispute about it. Furthermore, these and similar measures will result in a reduction in the budget deficit by increasing general revenues in the state budget and, most importantly, this represents a final and unsustainable source of budget revenues. I support these measures for the purpose of providing them with a permanent basis for the functioning, but also for the development of our energy sector, and for these citizens to be at least burdened, or damaged, in the least possible way. Despite the fact that this measure has long been delayed, what is for me, and I believe Serbia's citizens, the most important fact is that despite this electricity collection, Serbia will remain among the countries with the cheapest electricity price, if not the convincingly cheapest country. The amendments that have been incorporated into the text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Excises deal with the extension of the Taxation and Electricity List for Final Consumers. Therefore, when electricity is used by end-users, i.e. buyers and legal persons and natural persons and entrepreneurs, but also suppliers, if used for their own use, then liquids for filling electronic cigarettes and tobacco processing. The bill also provides for a list of exemptions which do not violate the effect that a law should be achieved with certain consumers, such as for production on surface spears, and then for use by the DKP, the diplomatic consular representations that have so far been exempt from this tax, which has been regulated by international contracts. It is very important to point out that the application of these measures begins from 1 August 2015, which means that the first payments will be detached from the month. The expected tax revenues, as we heard, are 5.4 billion by the end of this year, or 17 billion at the annual level. From the need for further compliance with EU standards, as well as with all the positive effects that we have listed according to the state budget, which this bill should produce, I will support this bill and vote in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30132	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. I gave the MP five seconds and then he was interrupted. Since it says that the replica could be up to two minutes... (Janko Vesenović, from the city: He talks to me all the time. It's not all the time. Please listen to me. I can give you a replica of how long it took and his pronunciation of your name. So, up to 10 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30133	As the price of electricity grew during the DS, wages grew twice as much, and now wages are falling, and electricity prices are rising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30134	The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today we are discussing a full set of five draft laws and one proposal for a decision, however, it is obvious that the interest of all MPs is only directed at the draft law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, and that is to say, in the case of the introduction of electricity excise. That's understandable, because this affects all citizens and, of course, that interest is great. But what intrigues us most is that we are dealing with this topic because this affects citizens who have reduced salaries and pensions to reduce the deficit in the budget. This government has not been able to apply any other measures, to maintain tax collection, at least at the level of 2012, but the level of tax collection has fallen, and the largest taxpayers, according to the lists published by the tax administration, are the ones with the highest capital and which are not the problem with paying electricity, as ordinary citizens. Also, the investments promised in the pre-election campaign have not been realised, there has been no building of buildings and the creation of new jobs, so citizens are becoming more and more difficult to live and each imposition is becoming more and more difficult to endure. Minister, you said that, if I understand correctly, I am not an economist by profession, a physics in the price of electricity in Serbia is the smallest in Europe and that it does not matter what it is used on, on eggs, on milk or on anything. It is important for citizens to pay everything they are used for, because this excise, as a type of tax, will be used to fill the deficits in the budget, not to restructure and modernise the EPS. This is only followed by an increase in the electricity price already announced, and we'll see about that. I agree with everything my colleagues have brought out, so I do not want to repeat it, and therefore MP Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia will not support this bill. I would like to refer to another bill, and this is a bill on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement – a project for the improvement of the land administration in Serbia between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as this proposal also concerns all citizens in a direct or indirect way. I will remind you that the basis of the functioning of a society is to define their own relations and to know what is whose and to protect everyone's property, which is what our Constitution declares. In order for that to be possible, it is necessary to have an orderly cadastre that will work effectively, economically and at all times to have the data that would have to contain. This is a necessary basis for regulation primarily of property-legislative relations, for creating conditions for investing foreign capital and for building economic facilities, for implementing legalisation, for which the law was also passed, for issuing permits for construction, reconstruction and adaptation of residential and commercial buildings. I will remind you that there were land books in Belgrade and Vojvodina within the courts that have now been taken over and united within their services. However, there are no conditions for the disaster to work. The takeover of land books has significantly increased the volume and documentation and work on it. I will only point out that the Vrsac cadastre works in a space that was built in the early 1970s for those needs and the size of the business. They are forbidden to increase the number of employees, and the size of the work has increased significantly because many buildings and many infrastructures have been built and because they have taken over land books. We really support this proposal for an agreement and this project to improve the catastra, because we think it is necessary to ensure first and foremost the necessary conditions for work, provide them with the necessary equipment and provide them with the necessary space. Please colleagues from the ruling coalition who have now managed Serbia for more than three years with minor or larger personal changes, do not constantly repeat that the previous government has been guilty and that everything has been corrupt since 2000 and here. I had the opportunity in 1992, 1993 to attend the presentation of our young experts' programme at the Sava Centre which created a catastre program that meant to record all the built infrastructure, all the buildings built up to every tree and every traffic sign. Our Republic had no money for this project, it had no understanding that it should be done and these young experts, as they are now doing, went to America, sold their project there. So I urge this to be realised as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30136	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I have listened with attention to all previous speakers and I would like to thank my colleague Biljana Hasanovic Korać, who recognised that the law confirming the loan agreement for the implementation of the project of improving the country's administration in Serbia, only one of the evidence that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is headed by Alexander Vukic is doing well what she promised, and has promised reforms that are not just a sweet list of wishes, which are not always good words. I believe that it is very difficult for many citizens in Serbia to change the way they have worked so far, and when I say so, I especially think about those who work in public administration, those who work in local self-government, on counters, those who should serve as a service to citizens, rather than making it complicated for them to issue even the simplest demands. You can remember how many times you've stood on a counter, how many times you've come back for another document, one more piece of paper, that you just didn't know what you really needed anymore. Of course I'm not talking about corruption, because it's always come as the last shred of salvation to offer that clerk a bribe on the counter to suddenly get that simple request. This is how this government got in the way. I cannot responsibly argue that something like this may not be happening in Serbia today, but this assembly majority has also passed the Alert Law, so I call on all those who may encounter these cases that I am talking about, that these cases are being reported, because this government and this assembly majority will no longer allow such a thing. The project of improving the land administration in the Republic of Serbia can be freely said to represent only part of the package relating to the issue of an electronic building permit. Last year, in November of the month when we adopted amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, we promised Serbian citizens that construction permits would be issued in 28 days, unlike 264 days, as earlier and we promised the citizens of Serbia that from 1 January 2016 construction permits would be issued by electronic means. This means that Serbian citizens will send all necessary documentation by electronic means from their home, from their computer, and in the same way receive a building permit back. This may sound impossible now, but it sounded impossible and a construction permit in 28 days, and so the majority of the Serbian government proved that such a thing was possible. As I said at the very beginning of my presentation, the responsible Government had already planned these funds, and by the 2015 Budget Act, the funds from this loan were planned to do so in the amount of $50m as a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These are funds that will benefit all citizens of Serbia, because what does this mean? The implementation of this project on the RGZ site will provide all data on the immovableities in Serbia, thus making all those citizens who need information on immovableity freely access the RGZ site and make all data available. As I said, the total value of the project to improve the land administration in Serbia is $50m, but the total value of the credit debt of the Republic of Serbia under this loan will be $44m. That means six million dollars less and only because this time the government has been conducting serious negotiations, unlike some before, this government has taken exactly as much money as it takes for this project, not as much as they've offered, and they couldn't return later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30138	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow Members of the People, listening here to the argument of the government and the argument of the quasi left sitting here on my left, they are only physically on the left hand side, I can remember and think that the government insists on walking along that saying of Dostoyevsky – if everything was reasonable on the ground nothing would happen. It's very important to you that something happens. The problem with Serbian citizens is that you keep saying something is happening, and it's only at their expense. This is one of those situations. To return to the topic, Serbia's citizens should know this way that 7.5% of excise duties will be added to their otherwise burdened shoulders and a small home budget, the situation is almost unsustainable right now and a total of 12%. An electricity excise is being introduced even though you and your government have promised to cut the price of electricity. I don't like going back in time, and I don't want to talk here about how many times DS has increased the electricity price, because that's except in that percentage sense that you've been exporting exactly, but the electricity price has increased. Both salaries and pensions increased. Soon I'll read what you said in the election campaign, be patient. This is usually the first time in history, as you like to say, and you often say, that electricity tax is being introduced to Serbian citizens who, I repeat, will pay 12.5% more for electricity. The Serbian government does not know that it saves and applies the neoliberal concept exclusively to citizens, not to itself. Serbian citizens must save, and the Serbian government does not have to save. Because, if she had to save and wanted to save, only by stopping the party staff, including stopping the reduction or disabling of employment in the state sector, would it be worth over 500m euros, which would be enough not to cut wages and pensions without talking about this direct increase in electricity prices. Your EPS director, who says the prime minister, is the only party member of the ruling party in Serbia, which is completely false, just to go a little bit after Serbia and hear how many party personnel are in public enterprises and in public-public enterprises, just as we talk about filling the third administrative building in the city of Belgrade with party personnel. Third building full. Five EU countries have no electricity excise and this is not an obligation, Minister Vujovic, as several colleagues have already said. No exceptions were made, at least I don't see them in the text in the social, health and education fields. But an exception has been made to the payment of excise duties for Etihad, de facto because the only air carrier with an airline with an abroad is Etihad, i.e. "Er Serbia". Why are you saying you're helping the EPS when he's got a profit that's paying off the budget or you know that that profit is fake or credit? Serbia's electricity has a billion euros in loans not guaranteed by the state of Serbia. Serbia's electricity is in debt and re-indebted for privatisation. I am taking this opportunity to ask you, Minister Vujovic, that clearly, decadently, precisely, tell the citizens of Serbia – will you also want to privatise the EPS and if you will, and I know that you will, to tell us why you will do it? Why, what is the concrete benefit? Bad management in the EPS is not being reformed. A set-up of tenders and a robbery doesn't stop. Party employment does not stop and these are questions and facts you do not have an answer to. You can get up a hundred times and talk about how many times the price of electricity has been increased from, let's say, 1991, but what benefits do Serbian citizens benefit from that? Nothing. They know that since August 1st, their account will be increased by 12.5%. They know there's no exception except for the government's friends. They know you filled the EPS buildings in Serbia with party people. They know that strange companies have been pumping water out of Tamnava and Kolubara, that “a purse-mad” company of your friends has been pumping water. They know that, and what Mirko Cvetkovic said and what my party did in the past, twice paid the price, I agree, maybe not enough. We did not give up poor economic neoliberal policies and ideologies. We haven't given up what's going to pull you to the bottom. Just wait and you'll see, in a positive sense, I'm not threatening anyone. You're proposing new responsibilities, and you're constantly justifying yourself with an inherited condition from the previous government. That's a saying. Serbia's electricity should be our comparative advantage, not a gathering centre for the party army. If our energy is a strategic branch, that's how we're supposed to manage it. Public property should be in the role of the development of the Serbian state, and EPS is the backbone of the development of the Serbian state. When you tell me or tell us – I don't see any argument that can be objected to by an increase in electricity, a respected colleague, along with that – you increased in 2001 and 2002, I see how gradually you became separated from life, apart from reality. You see only the projection of the leader who says – saving for the citizens, privatizing everything and everything, and that will one day get us out of transition. I'm responsible, he'll never get us out of transition. There's no long and gold coffin at the end of the road. There is only failure, unemployment, abandonment of Serbia, collapse of public systems, partitionation, corruption, inequality and banks. And your tycoons and your friends. It's the only thing left in Serbia today. If you disagree with this, we can look at the exact data that says that we have a recession in Serbia, that we have a decline in production, that we have a drop in employment and that we have an increasing burden on the citizens of Serbia. This is the last one in a row...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30140	Mr. Stefanovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30141	This is the last in a series of intrusions. So, excise duties on Serbian citizens, a new imposition, is right, a respected colleague, it doesn't matter what it's called. The important thing is that the citizens of Serbia will feel it fat. Many of you, not present here, but from your four-, five-paid parties, set up floors, will not feel it, but those who trusted you, and I end this, on 8 and 10 August 2011, Zorana Mihajlović – when we come to power, the SNS will reduce the price of electricity by 20%. That's what you said, and now an increase of 12.5%. Furthermore, on November 25, 2014, Minister Antic, another false leftist, says this - we are absolutely not considering any proposal to introduce electricity excises. It says – we have a clear and professional dimension why such a thing is not good for the citizens of Serbia, says Minister Antic. Whoa, what is it now? What is it now, my people? You want the market at all costs, privatisation at all costs. You want it, less wages, less wages, more unemployment. What efficiency does one monopoly go from one hand to the other? Explain that to us. What market, what efficiency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30142	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30143	Let me just answer those facts. It's not 12.5, it's 12.33, and if it multiplys, but well, it's a little bit. Secondly, citizens save and the government doesn't have to – it's not true. Look at the budget. This is where we adopted him. We've cut material costs and you see how much we've cut public sector wages. We made everything happen and transferred by two and a half billion. So that's incorrect. Is the government effective? That's the question we're trying to answer with this so-called program. Public sector reform, public sector wage reform, system reform. It takes time. We've run a lot of things. We're going to record the situation on various ministries. We can't, we don't have a magic wand to watch who had a party book, when he was employed, in which ministry, in which agency, in what period. It's a complex problem. There we can agree that the problem is complex, that the problem is not one party, it's not six months or a year or two. The problem is completely different. We will have the problem of solving by trying to reform ourselves by being a state of competent officials, fewer officials, a modern state, transparent, based on the principles of the "e" state, and "geament", based on transparent all procedures. I think it's something that should be the priority of all parties. What happened here? I think it's very hard to dig for things individually. I don't think that's the point. The goal is to have what is called a functional analysis of all ministries and agencies that, looking at achievements in the world, we have a country that will be competent, which will be able to respond to modern demands with a minimum number of people, to provide services in all areas where we agree that public services should be provided, not that the state provides services that it has set for itself as a goal, but to provide services that citizens seek and expect, above all, in education, health and everything else. So there's no dilemma. When and how we're gonna do it, it's a lot harder than we think. What we're trying to do is change the pay system, change the position definition system in the public administration. You won't believe how much resistance there is from everyone, including party resistance here. I don't think we should ask that question if it's necessary, but to ask the question how do we do it. So, for me, the most important issue in the media about this debate is here, one day we hear the question – there has been party employment since 2001 or 1995 or 2007 or 2012 or 2013, and then, after two days, when we propose a public sector rationalisation programme, the main issue of media and all political parties is – how many people will you fire? He can't do both. So we need to agree not to fire anyone without a basis, but we need to have a system in which we will clearly recognize what the functions of the ministries are, what who is doing, what people, what level of expertise and everything else. That's where we'll make an easy deal when we're on the right track. I didn't say it was an excise duty, it's our voluntary adjustment. I think the state is much more exposed and gives more resources to the EPS than it gets from the EPS. Among other things, because for years and decades in Serbia, it has been a policy for the EPS to serve as an alternative social assistance channel. I'm in favour of having social assistance, but I'm not in favour of subsidising everything in Serbia, and the richest, and the tycoons, and the embassies, and me, and you, and everyone else, to give the cheaper electricity to that segment of the population that deserves help. So we predicted in this package that one part would be directed to help. We can talk about being more than that. We can talk about people, like when we define the level of pensions and everything else, going from some fixed level, we can talk about it. It's a good argument, to see that this doesn't hurt those people, but people who deliberately heat up on electricity, and they have trees around the house that rot, or people who don't want to burn any other source of heating besides electricity, I think we need to send them a signal that they need to save electricity exactly as much as everyone else is saving. You know very well that any kilowatt we save can be exported at some price. Well, at that price, we'd have to deal with it here. Why are we introducing excises on a short period of time? Because it's the only way to send a message of savings, send a message of rationalization, make revenue for the budget, because we're going to have budget costs. We already have this year about these intervention loans that we took to pay for the imports of electricity, pay for the refurbishment of kopov and pay for that pump. The World Bank seems to have answered enough, so I wouldn't get into it. The World Bank has controlled public procurement for the occasion. They had a chance to agree a month before the loan was signed. They've answered the media a few times, and I don't know why the media can't handle it. The World Bank complains to me that the media does not transmit legitimate answers to the press. Let's let people professionals answer that, I wouldn't go into those questions. As far as the EPS issues are concerned, I've already said, but I want to point out that we want things in the EPS to be resolved as part of a multi-annual EPS reconstruction plan, where, in the best way, it's going to surface. We had to ask directly at meetings why it took three years to change the rules of procurement. Obviously, there are interests in the existing procurement system. So, that's where we all think the same thing, we're asking ourselves the question of how do we do it? I do not want to chase political witches, but to establish a system that is transparent and in the best possible way to ensure the functioning of the EPS. When the EPS is good enough to attract foreign investment for the sake of joint investment, electricity generation and selling electricity at world prices, then we'll have a firm that's a good firm. We don't have to sell it, we can attract additional capital, but we'll have a criterion when it's a good company, when it's a company that doesn't have party employment, or concessions to union organisations that are there, not to work and produce, but to protect their interests. We all know that and that's something we have to live with for now, but we also have to solve for a longer term. As for the recession, the decline in production and everything else, I said one thought earlier -- we had a rough growth in social product while we had extreme funding based on supporting aggregate demand. We misjudged, I don't want to be judged individually by anyone, but we misjudged that macroeconomic sizes were enough to avoid the effects of world recession and crisis. Turns out that's not the case. I don't think anyone was being maliced, I just think that people underestimated the tectonic changes that the recession caused and that she hit us. We had high reserves, a stable macroeconomic situation, a high growth rate and everything seemed great on the surface, but it happened that the sources of funding had dried up, that the demand for our exports had dropped, that all the most unfavourable things had happened. What the Americans say is, it's called the perfect storm. So, the worst possible event happened between 12 and 18 months apart, and we ran into a crisis. Look at our growth rates, they crashed from 5.5-6% to -3% and we can't go back. What we're doing, and someone can slow it down. As an economist, I want to tell you that we want to clean up our finances, clean up everything that is our negative legislation of the past, to attract third generation investments without which there is no job opening and long-term growth. So our potential growth is three, four, and maybe five percent, but once we solve 500 plus companies in restructuring, we solve the efficiency of public enterprises, we solve the efficiency of public administration, and that's exactly what we do. I don't think there's supposed to be a dilemma here, that we have to do it to get out in the open, where big investors are going to believe us. So far, in 2000 and in the first five years there have been investments that have been buying markets, tobacco, cement, cigarettes, coke and so forth. It's been a while. They came, they bought the market and it's okay, but it has limited range. Then came the investments that chased the conukture. "Juestil" when he came to Smederevo, he did not buy Smedereva because Smederev is well, although Smederevo has its advantages, but because Smederevo needed to respond to extremely favourable conditions on the world market. The moment those terms disappeared, they paid one dollar and left. They say it may have been the wrong decision, but now we leave it. Now we come to a difficult situation, in which we must first continue to sell good infrastructure stuff. When you sell Telecom, you re-sell the market, but no longer the elemental market, but you sell a hole in the Balkan Peninsula and the question is to find a strategic investor who will valorize it in the right way and much more. Here, we have now heard in America, watch out, you have the interest of Microsoft and NSR, which after so many years, it started at the beginning of 2000, 2001, 2002, in 2003, first contracts, and then now people in the world know that in Serbia there are 500, 800, 1000 engineers who can work by world standards, deliver software and everything else. That's what we need to valorize, and that's not easy. It requires a lot more things that we have to do both in systems change and in education and in everything else. Therefore, Serbia cannot be an exception, we cannot compete in the world with simple industries and earn income. We're in what's called, we've written about it on a lot of advice, middle income growth crisis. We can't keep raising productivity in this way forever. We need to move to a better level of investment organisation, large investments. Now that's what we're trying to do to these things, to change the environment, to change our attitude to things. This primarily affirms the approach to Europe at a price level and this affirms the efficient use of energy and this affirms responsible behavior towards everything. For us affirms a permanent source of income that will repair the structural deficit and enable what we all want, and that is to make a partial reverse, correcting those income cuts that we were forced to do in the first step. That's what the point is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30144	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Stefanovic, I'm sure you don't have a replica to present this to the minister. Before I give my word to Mr Kovacevic, the replica has a National MP, Zoran Babic, at the presentation of Mr Stefanovic. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure! After this, we would certainly have a replica. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30145	Mr. Chairman, you just violated Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the MP in his presentation did not in any way pronounce the name or political organization of the person you just gave the word to before I interrupted you. On the same basis, as I accept, I would not have the right to a replica and you have properly assessed it. However, it is your right and your ability to do so, but I ask you not to give your colleague on the other side of the line now, because neither his name nor his political organization has spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30146	Mr. Stefanovic, I'll ask the service for a synopsis of your presentation and you'll get it. Read it again, and if you say after that statement that the SNS parliamentary group has no right to replicate, then really... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Not mentioned. Then you have to give it to me, too. I think you'll see that I did the right thing when I gave my word to Mr. Babic. Mr. Babico, did you answer the Rules of Procedure or are you looking for a replica? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: The Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30147	Article 106(1) - The speaker can only talk about the point of the search. Mr. Chairman, it is not enough to say just – forgive me my ugly past, and let that ugly past be forgotten. It's not enough to say just -- yes, and we've increased the price of electricity, yes, and we've given 353 million dinars for marketing purposes, yes, and we've given sports clubs and hands and hats, and to forget. What's much more dangerous, and it's said here, and it's just a violation of Rules of Procedure and Articles 106, is why are they easier, why are some of the reliefs given to Er Serbia? Excuse me, please, Mr. Chairman Er Serbia is mostly owned by the state of Serbia, mostly owned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see that connection between left-wing ideas and telling the citizens of Serbia that it's bad. The dangerous statements they say – strange companies have pumped water from the Colubara, although I do not see any connection to the agenda point. Yes, strangely enough, 23m euros made a cheaper offer than any other company involved in the whole process. Yeah, when it's said, your tycoons, and what about your left-wing tycoons? A team sitting behind you. What about those tycoons that also have a building in Banović Strahinja, they also have cafes on Toplica Venac. They gave all these great places to help their party, it's legitimate and normal, and I would do that, but how were those bars that you guaranteed to pay back the Democratic Party's debt? This wealth and these political tycoons, which were rapidly created at the time of the Democratic Party's rule and the left-wing ideas that were scattered here and swept away, are populistly siphoning the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that cannot possibly be combined.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30148	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Stefanovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? You called before Mr. Sutanovec. Well, it's not exactly like that, Mr. Sutanovac, but please, it's not a problem if it gives you the advantage of Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30149	Mr. Becic, you have violated Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In fact, you gave the right to an esteemed colleague to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 103 states that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the president, immediately after the injury has been done. So, we have a situation where MP Stefanovic spoke, after which the word is received by the minister, after which you immediately give a word to your party's MP, and the minister has not done any harm to the Rules of Procedure. So, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure on purpose, not to mention not to remind MPs who speak of tycoons, property in the old town, I'm not talking about the property of some hotel typhoon in Vranjska Banja. So, no one else but the oldest MP here is yawning. It's really quite rude, but good. So, Mr. Chairman, it's true that some strange companies are pumping out Tamnava, exactly the government gave five months...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30150	Mr. Sutanovac, I will not allow further violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The moment you're trying to use that as a replica, I won't let you go any further. Mr. Babic resented me for not warning Mr. Stefanovic as chairman when he called a renowned company from Novi Sad, which has been known for 30 years by the company "a purse and a bow". I didn't do it at that time, as I didn't do to you who recognized yourself in being Mr. Babic, I didn't recognize you when you were talking about these properties, according to the Wizard, but if you recognized yourself I couldn't do anything there. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Thank you. He'll come out. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30151	Mr. Chairman, Article 104 has allowed the majority MP, the majority leader, to speak for over two minutes, completely off the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30152	Mr. Stefanovic, I still owe one explanation, I apologize to Mr. Sutanovac, as I gave my word to Mr. Babic. You saw that Mr. Babic was supposed to get the word and I called him, but in the meantime I gave the word to the minister and it was my fault that I gave priority to the minister at that time, even though Mr. Babic asked for the word. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I don't think that in any way can deny the fact that you have injured Article 104, because you have allowed Mr. Babic to turn his apparition on the breach of the Rules of Procedure entirely into a replica, entirely. You have not warned him once, as you now warn me, for no reason whatsoever, rather than let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30154	Mr. Stefanovic, I did not warn Mr. Babic, who also spoke about the injury of the Rules of Procedure and partly used it as a replica, because before that you used the whole time of the Rules of Procedure's injury as a replica. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) I thank you. The word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure has a folk MP, Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30155	I thank the chairman. I appeal to you to Article 104(2) on which I have the right to reply, in the light of the presentation of MP Borko Stefanovic and I have long been waiting for my parliamentary right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30156	Mr. Jovanovic, you cannot refer to the same member Mr. Stefanovic was invited to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30157	And how can I?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30158	Also, you have no right to a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30159	Please, then, according to the Rules of Procedure. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, the Chairman. You've now injured Article 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30160	Mr. Jovanovic, you've come forward after the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I said you have no right. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30161	A member of the 107th chairman has been injured, the dignity of the National Assembly is violated by ignorance, and ignorance is when it is said that the minister has violated the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure can only be broken by this Rules of Procedure by the President or by the chairman of the National Assembly. And on the other hand, Mr. Chairman, I'm willing to trade all of my movable and immovable assets with those who call me for that property. I'm ready with Mr. Sutanovec to trade all my movable and immovable assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30162	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Don't, you'll get plenty. The word has been broken by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nejo Jovanovic You know, Mr. Sutanovac, you have no right to a replica on the part of the Rules of Procedure. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Please, replica, I mentioned directly by name.]] You know, at least you should know so much about the Rules of Procedure. The word is Mr. Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30163	You've injured Article 103. Rules of Procedure, considering you took my word in a non-business way. It's not true that I can't appeal to the same member. I cannot call upon only the same injury and already this Assembly stops with a harsh, wrong interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. The injuries can be different. Incidences of injuries can be different. I can constantly call on Article 27, which refers to the handling of your work and the Assembly, and the manifestations of the injuries can be many, from the insults of the unauthorized approach to you, to throw the MP and so on. But you can't deny anyone, not to me, not to your colleagues, or the opposition the right to call on that member. I think it's time to break up with that practice. As for what you've denied me, I think it's time for me to get the right to a replica, to present Mr. Borko Stefanovic in the light of...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30164	Mr. Jovanovic, you have no right to a replica, I judge it as chairman. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead to the injury in the voting day? Yes, thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Yes, by Article 103.) The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go. Let's go back and talk on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30165	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no matter how many measures the Government of the Republic of Serbia deliver, Mr. Minister, not everyone can believe the results, and perhaps the best way to end this debate is to report to the Fiscal Council just five days ago which confirms everything that you've been telling us today in the discussion. Of course there is a budget deficit and the budget deficit is due to the inherited situation and in a year it could not be removed. Bad and expensive state administration. Public enterprises that have property and behave in the market are monopolies. False subsidies related to the social sector and other fiscal charges that did not have a basis in the revenue side of the budget are only part of the bad economic situation that we are in. Economic delusions, you're right, which lasts for generations, not governments, have put us in a position to accumulate our commitments over time, not just financially, but that this government, along with interest, is trying to pay them off, and is paying them off in 2015. When we were planning a budget for 2015, remember those long debates, we were planning budget revenues of 924 billion dinars, that same time, we were planning budget expenditures of thousands and 115 billion dinars, and then we were aware that in this year, as a nation, as a state, as a society, we would spend more than we could earn, that we would have deficits, and when you look at the revenue side of the budget, you see in fact two key economic categories. The first economic category, relating to the economic classification, 7141, concerns incomes stemming from value added tax and they amount to around 399 billion dinars, we planned. At the same time, we were planning another economic income, which is the largest and these are excises of 215.7 billion dinars. In that economic classification, in 717, you have income from oil derivatives, oil at 120 billion dinars. Excise revenues on tobacco products amounting to 80 billion dinars and 13.7 billion other revenues. I'm talking about planned revenues, and it's time for Mr. Minister to say that the fiscal council, not you, says that your incomes are all up to one. They're incomparably bigger and that's the result of your work. Today, when we talk about this law, about amending the Excise Act, we are actually talking about another key source income that fills the budget of the Republic of Serbia, about excise duties. We want the bill to amend and introduce all those products that are not affected by excise policy, or fiscal policy, because when we introduce them into excise policy, we automatically increase the amount of tax on additional value. Who are these things we're changing today? Well, first of all, if you look at the bill's amendment, you'll see Article 2 where we say, that we will, in Section 3, insert a new product called the heating tobacco, not the combustion, which is heated, not the combustion, we want to insert into Article 2, Section 6, which is about the use of liquids to charge electric cigarettes. We're not going to tax this first category, or establish an excise duty of 40% at the lowest price of 1,000 cigarettes, this other four dinars per milliliter. So far, we have not had these economic categories, or these products at excise levels. Why? Well, like any market and market for tobacco products, growth and development follow new technologies, new products appear that attract consumers by their prices, services, and start to take over the growing segment of the market. That's the case with the products we're talking about today. Simply, tobacco products have appeared in the tobacco market that could not have been defined before, which because of their price, because they are partly not located on the excise policy have a lower price, become competitors and take over the growing segment of the market at any moment, tobacco products. Of course, products concerning excise policy will not be questioned, but they can be. At the same time, if these products do not have excise policy and are not found in the fiscal order in this way, they create no consumer unity, so one tobacco user pays excise and the other one does not. With these changes, we are actually going to make unity, both producers and consumers, which essentially speaks about the unity of fiscal rules in the taxation process. In May, so in last month 2015, public service, i.e. public supply, the invoice amounted to 11201 million dinars, all invoices according to the population sector and part of the economy invoices. To clarify, part of the invoices relating to the economy is about invoices that are issued to companies that employ up to 50 people and that have traffic restrictions on the annual new one. Under the new Energy Act, since 1 October, all those users who spend more than 30,000 kilowatts will have to be found in the market regime, but this will not significantly affect the amount of excise duty. So in May 2015, the population's invoice was 8 billion and 551 million dinars. The invoice according to that part accounts for 2 billion and 694 million. You still have twenty percent of the companies on the free market. If in May, this year we had this Law and had applied it to budget income based on population-related invoices, it would have amounted to 649 million dinars, or 198 million dinars at the level of the economy. In total, Mr. Secretary 840 million dinars, for the first five months, 4 billion 687 thousand dinars. Mr. Minister, that is 2.47% of the action revenue at the level of the Republic of Serbia annually, and 0.49% of income at one year of total tax revenues. If you could say that 0.49% of tax revenues at the level of one national economy are something that causes this kind of debate? Maybe it is. But in Serbia, it's getting more and more pronounced because you simply have this problem that politics is in everything. The average account in May 2014, for the population sector, was 1400 dinars, in May 2015. 355 kilowatt hours spent on the average account, i.e. 2,500 dinars, however you look on average for this excise fee, the citizens will stand out from 105 to 250 dinars more. If you ask me personally, as an MP, is that much or little? For 105 dinars in Serbia, almost nothing can be bought, for those who do not have one, and 105 dinars is a very large amount. I am pleased that in Article 40 of this proposal, you fully define the way excise charges will be charged, in a way you make a concession to the EPS where you say that the excise tax will be charged on the consumption that goes to the end-user, i.e. in a reasonable place. Why does it matter? Because today, these days, these years, we've been hearing different stories about the EPS and they're mostly negative, but I think they're, above all, the result of ignorance and a precise understanding of how it works. We're not talking about business loss here, and you're talking about this, so here we're talking about loss on transmission, on a network that you clearly defined and said is 15% to 16% on an annual level, but you should tell Mr. Minister the full truth. Nine to ten percent loss is a technical loss. You don't have any relevant mechanism today to determine that one network that is invested or not invested should have, does 9 do 10? It is a matter of assessment, such as the matter of assessment, to remind you of both the amount and size of the grey economy in the state of Serbia of 30%. So we have technical losses, all theorists, all economists, people in practice, say it's about as much for this business system as it does for EPS, 4% and 4.5%, respectively, are technical losses in Germany, one of the most developed economies in the area. In Slovenia 5%. So the EPS is making a problem of 4-5% of the technical losses resulting from non-investment. From 5 to 6 from 9, 10 to 15, 16 losses are commercial, in translation of theft. Is there a problem with commercial losses in a country in Europe at the moment? It doesn't exist, Mr. Minister. Is the EPS responsible? Yes, it is. Is it primary? I'm not sure. He needs to be helped by the state. I am also happy that the EPS is charging at this time, in 2015 95.74% of the invoice realisation, 95.47%. This means that only 4.73% will go to the EPS liquidity burden, i.e. 0.39% of what is not charged will go to its burden. Since 1 August 2013, the rate of charge has been 94.32%. There are a number of products produced in Serbia and that is not disputed. Few meet European and world standards. I can't think of a product, Mr. Minister, that you can say is as competitive as what EPS produces. Today, the EPS at its price, undeniably, we all know it has the lowest producer price and sales price in the region, in Europe, and there is no question whether the EPS could sell its product anywhere in the world today. Yeah, you could. And when you're talking about the company's functioning today, and we're listening to it all the time, yes, you can talk about that firm any way you want. Thirty-six thousand people less than it did two years ago, if you take people who worked on temporary part-time jobs and for a certain time, you're incomparably less working at that firm today. Thirty-six thousand people each day make dozens of operational decisions, almost every one of them you can criticize. But these 36,000 people also deliver their product at the point of consumption that is tens of kilometers away from the last village, at different altitudes, at different times, and it starts by moving from mines, water streams, in a complex technological process, over a million kilometers of network, hundreds of thousands, perhaps, of transformers reach the consumer and deliver energy to him. And it's right that all those who say the EPS should change. And it's right that everyone who criticises him and they have a full right, I support them, because in colleges, institutes, in their companies they produce products, intellectual value that is worth a lot more on the European market than the undeniable price and product that sells EPS. Is the fiscal consolidation award an increase in salary for 170 thousand people who work, 177,000 people who work in education, 128 thousand who work in health care, 102,000 who work in the MUP? It is, but it is a reward for fiscal consolidation and all that we are doing, in fact, the beginning of a better life and a tax reduction that all citizens of Serbia will feel. That's the ultimate goal. Certainly this proposal and the proposal for this decision when you have to vote for the introduction of excise duties is not the happiest thing a MP can vote for and should vote for. We had easier laws, we had harder laws, but this is no problem for me for a simple reason. In 2014, we heard about a mountain of tough laws that we voted on, and we basically talked about it like this, the same political relationship was, we defended from the authorities, Mr Vujovic defended it, the opposition attacked. This is the first law of this kind in 2015, there will be more. Then you look at three key macroeconomic parameters and that's why we're proud of Mr. Vujovic. Look at the social gross product. You said it well, everyone said it -- it's going to be minus 0.5. Today there's no one who doesn't say there's gonna be plus one, the reasons are different nice you said. The fiscal council says – it will be to improve the level of agricultural production. Whatever the reasons, there will be a growth of social gross product, but no one, nobody, says the unemployment rate is higher. No, the greatest pessimists say it's the same. In fact, we know it's not lower. Inflation rate 2.7 planned, how much, Mr. Vujevic, 2%? Three keyKanes macro-economic parameters are good. It's not one that can be, it's not another. Three key. You know that ideal heritage, if the environment were better, we wouldn't have to propose laws like this. We could suggest a lot easier, but it's not the point that when it's hard to suggest, because if you're suggesting it's easy today tomorrow it's hard. That's why we don't really have a choice, and that's why I don't have a choice, and the SNS, of course, will support this law. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30166	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30167	Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I personally think today's debate will mark one quote that Mr. Minister said, which is - citizens will be rewarded for this sacrifice. Mr. Minister, in the last three years, you've been the third finance minister, you're in a position to know by who which path you sacrifice citizens for the state of the budget, and in what way? I will remind you, from 2012 in Serbia, the first victim was an increase in VAT. Then a debate was held in the Assembly, the DS was against it. We've been told -- it's the only thing we need to achieve fiscal consolidation and reduce budget deficits. After that, the profit tax was increased, another imposition at 50%. These days, we are witnessing an increase in property tax, a series of other taxis being introduced. In three years, the increase in citizens' duties is like nowhere else in the world, and today we are having a conversation about something that for the first time in Serbia's history is being introduced, and that is, to say, in a way, a tax on electricity. When we say excises, someone won't understand, so it's a tax on electricity. Mr. Minister, this government is acting in a way that is draining its citizens to the last cent of the system in which it is generally known in Serbia, where it is said - the operation succeeded and the patient died. An operation to save the Serbian deficit of our budget is clearly under way, but our citizen will not be able to survive the operation. You've packed up nicely in the beginning that it's a question of harmonisation. The only question is how do we harmonize with the EU when not all countries have introduced electricity excises, but then the question arises why should we have harmonisation in subsidies? Why don't we single out the funds for agriculture, or you don't single out the funds for agriculture as it stands out in some French, so since we're already harmonising what a peasant has to pay the state, let's harmonize what the state gives to a peasant? Why don't we harmonize green energy, why don't we single out money for that energy just as it stands out in this harmonised EU? So, this is nothing more than another arrest from a long-term impoverished Serbian citizen, this is a new imposition, an imposition that Serbian citizens should pay in excess of 12% of the bills they have received so far. You know, it might seem a little small to you, talking about some dinars, one, two, three, five dinars, but these are sums that citizens can't pay off. Eleven percent increased VAT, 50% increased profit tax, no idea how much property tax was increased, various taxes were introduced and this goes on top of it. I'd understand that money goes to the EPS. I would have understood that money was spent on getting cheaper electricity. No, this money is spent on exactly what MP Stefanovic was saying, and these are the funds that you allocate, it is about 135m euros in a contract on the work that the government is paying off. That's what I was talking about when you were defending the budget here. About 15 and a half billion or 16 and a half billion dinars are leaving on the basis of a work contract. That's when we told you, don't spend that kind of money on it. That's where you hide the money you can save. Don't spare any more savings by reducing pensions and salaries, but stop what Serbia doesn't have to have. Tens of thousands of people are paid on the basis of a contract of work, and all of them are to be supported by citizens who do, and who are here and today we hear that a new imposition will be made. I, Mr. Minister, think this is a very bad proposal. In no way will this proposal improve the state of neither EPS nor Serbia and what is essential, it is that you, Mr. Minister, with this government that has never been worse, builds a state, builds a wall, which looks like a pyramid without a foundation. So instead of based our country's economy on a strong and rich citizen, rich peasants, wealthy people who can hold, like in countries where you worked, you build a pyramid upside down, you strengthen the state, you reduce the deficit, and at the expense of Serbian citizens. Citizens can't take it anymore. You know, it's an extremely big load. I think this is one of the things most should not support in parliament, regardless of course there is a tendency and a desire for everything in Serbia to appear through what is said to be a multiple reduction in the deficit compared to the planned one. Mr. Minister, as a serious man, you know when someone is planning a deficit...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30168	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30169	... so he'll be smaller, then whoever planned the deficit must at the very least bear some sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30170	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30171	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to admit, I've heard a lot of things here today from my colleagues across the street. He's a Marxist, and he's a practicalist, whether he's a trotsky, who knows. At the very least, I thought that the new Che Guevara, if necessary, was everything, of course, although you can hardly be a proleter in Prada, that's not exactly how it works. On the other hand, you have some that are extremely neoliberal, then you have some thirds who don't know what they're for, and all of them together all of those wonderful programs that they exhibit to us here could be implemented and realized in 12 previous years. Now someone's telling us here about robbery privatisations, and they privatized the entire state, and they've introduced us to a restructuring company, which they've been throwing money at, for the sake of unhappiness, literally for the nelados. They've ruined these companies, brought the state to chaos, and now they're giving us lessons here, he says -- you want to privatize everything. Well, of course we want to try to make something work. Well, what do we have to keep throwing money in the well and not doing it? What logic is that, I don't understand? Indeed, I say it openly everywhere, I'm, say, an express Euro-sceptic. I am not such a fan of Serbia's entry into the European Union. I'm looking at it the pragmatic way. I'm not even up for what the IMF is doing, but I have to admit, those who went for it, they were dying for the idea, now suddenly they're against why electricity is being imposed, and they were obliged by the European Union directives to introduce it, as early as 2003, to do so. They were obliged to introduce the excise, and why didn't they introduce her, Mr. Becic? Well, they didn't bring her in because they didn't want to work transparently, because it was at the government's session that they were collecting electricity that no one had any idea when the government was making a decision, not so transparently in parliament, when you say, we're introducing an excise. Yes, we have to introduce her, because it's a request from the European Union and it says nice here, you have a directive. It's absolutely amazing what we're hearing here today. Well, I'm sorry, too, I'm not happy about the imposition of the excise duty, but that someone thought about it when he was making the concept of restructuring Serbia's Elektroprivreda, otherwise you never wanted to restructure it in your life, but you left us an Electro-price of Serbia with 400 million dinars in 2012. You're artists. That hasn't worked for anyone yet to have a monopoly company minus 400 million dinars. It's really a fantastic success, but it's kind of original, for mocking. Although it is not a small laughing matter for the citizens of Serbia, because our energy security, in the end, has completely destroyed it that way. What kind of power plant did they build? What kind of energy did they bring us here? Let's say, they made a commitment, because it's one of the requirements, that we go into turning EPS into a corporate company and going to the market, because now there's going to be another power supplier, so you're fighting on the market. They accepted it, and they did nothing to modernise the EPS, but instead, they hired. If we're talking about hiring party personnel, so don't talk about it. After all, the fact that he's a little bit earlier, which, unfortunately, has now come out, which is a trotskyist, Marxist, what is it, he's talking about how we have party employment. So his idea, the Alliance of Communists introduced, among other things, this party employment, because they hired everyone from the Communist Union alone. Please don't let him talk about party employment. That's how he applied it while the party actually ruled this country. They all took part-time jobs. Tell me, where did you make it possible for a private initiative, besides suffocating every possible private initiative? If you remember perhaps, Mr Vujovic, when the government changed in 2012, one of the first sessions of this Assembly was to abolish 103 taxes and impose on the economy, and there are as many as you want. Sometimes I really wonder, I don't even know what I'm paying for. I'd like you to take a few bills, because we have, someone mentioned, I think that fellow Marinkovic, is exactly that salary tax, which I don't know why he's like that. It takes a little bit of a relief for the economy, although it's been given here to make it easier to hire a certain number of people, but we'd have to make sure that the economy really gets rid of such pointless charges. Let's not talk about municipal and local self-government fees that are creepy for our economy, but it's basically all introduced in some period that we should really be ashamed of. Don't talk about how the economy is going to develop today. Yes, our biggest problem is, among other things, we don't have a private sector. We've got him, but unfortunately, he's the kind of guy that's been funded by a massive public sector like this, which someone's made for us. Look, we have a tragedy that people need to know. For example, we have a shortage of people in inspections, in the police, in that operating area, which we should have people for, but we have in the administration. That's what someone here was raising the administration, watering, and then there was an explosion. Otherwise, today the world is being saved, I don't know who's following, but in Greece, the Greeks are looking to introduce, among other things, electricity VAT, bigger electricity VAT. Greece refuses to accept that. There they were asked to introduce 40% salary and pension cuts both in the public and private sectors. If the government hadn't changed, we would have come into this situation like Greece, because they had an irresponsible political elite and they, of course, too, and this European political elite that has given them debts in this way, knowing that they can't pay it back. If it hadn't changed with us, if someone had continued to take credit for their election campaigns on abnormal interest rates with a grace period of one year, and we might have one day come into a situation like Greece, so God forbid we have 300 and something billion. Fortunately, it kind of broke off. Someone says, "Yes, you are, you're saving, the citizens are saving." Excuse me, but what do we do? Do you have a better solution? Do you want to keep throwing money into the restructuring companies? Is that a model for you? Do you think it's nice for someone to say – excuse me, we'll cut your salary and your pension? It's not nice, but we tell the citizens -- if you think there's anything better, vote for it, don't vote for us, knock us down. Why? Because we don't see another way to raise the earth. No one is comfortable with us having to do this, and those who don't even know what gross domestic VAT is, etc., what am I supposed to do, read something, but don't spill any more demagogy, because they buried the state and everything in this country that's about the economy. So, of course I'm going to support this, not because I'm glad I'm imposing an electricity excise, but because I don't see any other solution. It's something we're forced to do to make this country better, and in the end, if we've already defined ourselves as going to the EU, this is something that we're obliged to do and it's much better this way in the Assembly, transparent than the government is increasing the price of electricity so corrupt, in some phone sessions that the previous government used to do, which otherwise increased the price of electricity by a hundred and a few percent during its rule. Anyway, we're gonna support this because this is the only way to save the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30172	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. The replica of Mr Djukanovic's presentation? Is it D.S. or are you personally mentioned? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: The mention is DS. It's not true, just ex-government. Mr. Djukanovic, did you mention DS? I really didn't hear, I'm sorry. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: I don't remember, but if I am, here's a replica. I'll take a look at the synopsis later, Mr. Stefanovic. You'll be entitled to a replica, but it's an honor to you if I don't see it in the synopsis and I don't read that the DS has been mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30173	Mr. Chairman, the synopsis is said, not synopsis, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30174	Thank you for your education, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30175	It's not education, it's just correction. It's not about what kind of labels you're gonna stick around here. The thing is, someone runs Serbia's lottery and manages to make a loss, be careful, the lottery loses, so it pays off the winnings, even though they haven't won their balance and that's what the DRI finds. Now, that's art and that's economics, and that's who the Trotskyist, the Marxist, that's what the citizens are going to say. What's certain is that we have completely two opposing concepts. When Minister Vujovic says very precisely earlier, I want to thank the minister, that the government says, quote you ministers, you correct me if I am wrong, says the minister – the government has been saving on itself. The government of Serbia, respected citizens, has cut the salaries of people working in the public sector by 13.3%, and the services and goods of separation by only 3.3%, that's how much you've been saving on yourself, 3.3% you've cut yourself for your expenses, and 13% for the citizens of Serbia. It's true and it hurts you, and two philosophies, two ideologies, that crash here, don't deny that they've been applied for 15 years, are exactly when a respected colleague says, of course, that we're going to privatize, because we want to be successful. You have a certain success in something proven to have failed. All over Europe, it's gone. If it hadn't failed, so I guess the Norwegians "Telenor" would have privatized, I guess the Austrian VIPs would have privatized, I guess the other public companies would have been closed, but I'm not surprised you, you're from the center right, I'm surprised by quasi-leftists here who will raise their handles for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30176	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Stefanovic, in the meantime, I checked to see if I accidentally made a mistake, and I just said how it says synopsis here. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: Have you made a mistake? No, I didn't, Mr. Stefanovic. Here's a nice synopsis, like I said. That's exactly what I said, Mr. Stefanovic, even though you want to keep here... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: You said synopsis. Mr. Stefanovic, it's not worth it to you... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: He will be at Kesic's place. )......................................................................................................... You have a problem with your MP group anyway. Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30177	Thank you, Chairman. I have to say you're right about one thing. That's right. It's totally amazing that someone in the lottery is making a loss. It's not normal, but it was in your time, and that loss is from your period, those 150 million dinars, and I congratulate you on that, because it never worked out for anyone in the white world that has a monopoly in certain games of chance, you're leading to the brink of destruction, and in your time, the Serbian State lottery was doing business with loss. Well, good for you. I believe you will enter history, but in a truly negative context. As for this other ideological one, I agree for the VIP, and for Telenor, and for everything you've instructed, Norway alone, and Austria didn't destroy their companies, as you destroyed them while you ruled, but those companies invested, and you're our companies that could be the backbones today, which may not even be privatized today, ruined and brought the state into a situation that it couldn't finance them because you've completely destroyed the state and its budget. You're forced today to launch some of that to privatize. That's what you should have thought about in 2001 and 2002 when you were selling all the businesses literally as on the floor, and that's what's really scary and there's no point in you talking about Norway, Austria, etc. because you brought the state to be somewhere in the rank of African countries, which are also being raised today and how different from us that we have to crawl to get as far as we can out of the fungi that you've put us in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30178	The word has a minister in the government, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30179	Just for a little while. We just checked the data. First January, 31 May – expenditure on goods and services, planned 26.7 billion and reached 23.6 billion, minus 11%. So the state has reduced 11% of expenditure on goods and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30180	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30181	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when this topic was put on the agenda, alterations and additions to the Excise Act, where there were certainly excises on the electric energy of the target, it was expected that it would lead to outflows and pulsism, cheap demagogy, emotion, showing great concern for the people and the state of opposition, that the opposition would try to get cheap political points in this way, and that of those who have pushed this country and this people to ruin for years, dragged into the edges of breaking and pushing into the ambis, and now they regret and show great concern. It is not disputed what they do, but it is disputed that one government, one government, which is now trying the same people, there's the same country and fingers and fingernails to pull up against the cliff and return to the level of other European countries, stands on its toes and tries to prevent it. There are strong arguments that life in Serbia is difficult, how everyone lives hard, which is true and no one will say that the weight of life has arisen today, but it has been the result of complex things, as a result of 2000 different authorities that have changed there. It has this power of its failures, and it is not disputed, it has this power and its mistakes, it has been able to do some things faster, there are human resources in the government that turn all its life around, but certainly this power is 300 times better than those and all those who have dragged, destroyed, sold and led to this and this way of life in which we are today. They forgot the concubines, and we remember when they called for civil disobedience, throwing electricity bills at containers, showing how it was the way one country would be built, how it shouldn't be paid, how nothing should be paid, how everything could be obtained from the side, and so the ambience that we are here was created. Today they say that the price of electricity is high, although it is the lowest in the environment, and now after the gathering it is the lowest in the environment again, as if they don't care about harmonising relations with Europe, as if they don't care about having one country where there are rules, order, where the savings are first and where one such resource can't be a very social category. Therefore, it is not a problem in the price of electricity, the problem is in the economy, in the products, in destroying everything that has been healthy and vital in this country for decades. Someone mentioned party employment here by the opposition. Party employment exists and has always existed, but what came after 2000, as party employment, destroyed everything that could have been destroyed in this country. Are those who rule the Vojvodina to speak of party employment? There is no longer a millimeter of square space in the Vojvodina Executive Council where one of the party employees is no longer present. It's all packed up, and the toilets are full, though, men are fuller than women. As the Vojvodina is today, so is the Government of the DS in Vojvodina. So, the full support this government has for laws like this, because they're reformist, they fit into a serious strategy, the only possible way to get this country and this people back on track, and that's some light at the end of the tunnel that we're slowly starting to see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30182	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30183	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is now in front of us of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accessions and a set of financial laws which are being examined through agreements and confirmation of the agreement, as well as a decision relating to statistical indicators. What I want first to point out is that I am almost astounded by the comments of the former regime's representatives, and at one point I was not sure, given that during the assembly debate they advocated at one point for the EU, and today, during this debate, they do not support what they themselves were meant to meet in the EU accession process, and this directive was passed back in 2003 at a time when they were in power. Not only did that amaze me, but I was astounded by the basic ignorance of the former prime minister of the former regime which some basic economic concepts such as the gross domestic VAT that was unknown to him, or not recognized its significance. Thankfully, Mr. Minister, you are a top economic expert, and after that debate, you gave the former prime minister a direct explanation of his unknown economic categories, or misrepresented. What I also want to emphasise is a law relating to amendments and additions to the Excise Act, of course no one from this government, and in particular its Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic did not say that the measures that are reform, economic measures and which this government is headed to will be easy and painless. On the contrary, he always said that these measures were painful, but they are the only possible measures for the country to recover economically. This government, or government since 2012, and in particular this government has inherited a completely economically ruined country, a completely collapsed economy. Almost the only thing that worked was party companies, representatives of the government and the former regime. Of course, increasing electricity is not something to look forward to, but certainly at this point it is the only way to persist in the reform programme of the Government of Serbia, and one of the objectives of the reform programme is fiscal consolidation of the country, as well as the savings that must be taken. As for the price of electricity in Serbia, it is compared to the countries in the environment for both those in the EU and those that are not yet, but are on their way to 50% lower. So in no case can you talk about any drastic increase in electricity here, and I'm going to set a concrete example. For the average consumer account of 2,600 dinars per month, this increase will be around 325 dinars. Of course, they are not popular measures, but this is one of the possible measures for financial consolidation, for the purpose of economic recovery and for the purpose of creating this country on a healthy economic basis. Only being a state on sound economic grounds can contribute to the country's progress in any way possible. Once again, I would like to point out that electricity has been in place for many years, and in the previous regime, it is almost considered exclusively a social category. I must point out that electricity is a commodity, that it is not a non-economic category, that it is an economic category, but this government as a socially responsible government and that it takes care of the poorest citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so it protected the most vulnerable population of the Republic of Serbia through a programme of economically protected customers. I would also like to say that electricity from 2008 to 2012 has increased by 42%, and I would also like to point out that these excise duties except for the 7.5% budget charge will be used for the recovery of the Elektroprivred. I would like to stress that these amendments and additions to the laws other than electricity excises for end-users are introduced and excises on the fluids to charge electronic cigarettes and they amount to four dinars per milliliter of liquid, and one milliliter of liquid is equivalent to one pack of cigarettes. That's about 10.5% when it comes to excise duties, and in terms of filling the republican budget, that's about 200 million a year. What I also want to stress is the introduction of excise duties on non-burning tobacco as a new tobacco product. Unburning tobacco as a new tobacco product introduced Italy and appeared on the Italian market at the end of 2014, Portugal also introduced, but is not yet on the market. The key element for the introduction of these products, as far as production is concerned, is the introduction of excise duties on products and we believe that charging on this basis of the budget will make a significant contribution to filling the excise budgets on these grounds. What I also want to point out are two loans above all, a loan signed by the Republic of Serbia with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and concerns the settlement of the land administration, as well as a loan signed for the development and restructuring of businesses. Both loans were signed on 17 April 2015 in the United States on the visit of the prime minister and members of his team. Why do I want to put an accent on a loan for a project to improve the land administration? Because we are one of the few countries in this part of Europe that does not have a regulated land administration, that is, there is no orderly building of immovableity. It's also a decades-old problem. This government will no longer push it under the carpet, it's high time national infrastructure for geospace plans to be done. The implementation of this project is one way to regulate immovableity in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What else does that have a direct impact on? It has to position our country at the World Bank and the World Forum of Economists on the ranking list as attractive destinations. Unlike representatives of the former regime in whose time it took citizens more than 260 days to obtain a building permit, the government as responsible promised citizens that construction permits would be granted in 28 days. The law has been passed and citizens of construction licenses are already being granted in 28 days. We still want to improve that, and this loan is precisely in order to improve that in one place we get everything, that a citizen can access his data at any time by electronic communication. Benefits certainly don't only apply to citizens. Benefiti also applies to those who intervene in real estate traffic, which are lawyers and assessors, etc., but also to state institutions, in particular the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State Administration themselves, because by establishing an electronic system in any case the largest benefits will be granted to citizens. What I also want to point out, and as far as the government's decade-long legacy problem is concerned by the former regime, it's a loan for the development and restructuring of businesses. We know that for decades, the former government has been directly aided by the state budget by the populist and demagogue policies, and by providing funding from the state budget, thanks primarily to the state budget. One part of these companies has its own market. One part of these companies may not find their market, but what should certainly be noted is that by going bankrupt, one part of the company can find conditions for its survival and further production. In this respect, the project provided 88m and 300,000 euros in funding. The funds are good. They're given for a 20-year period. Grace, it's eight years. The total funds will be transferred to one tranche, and the start of the loan payment will be in 2023. What I must also point out is that these loans are concluded on the basis of the Government of Serbia programme and on the basis of the objectives set out in the programme by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, before the signing and conclusion of these agreements, there was a decision, as well as other government documents to monitor the implementation of these projects. What I would also like to stress is that the government's 2015 budget has already defined the amount of 16 billion dinars in the ministry's division of labour, martial arts and social affairs, which will be intended for those workers who will be declared surpluses in businesses. Also, what I want to point out is that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs has also signed an agreement with the National Employment Service that will be obliged to visit these companies that are planning to fire, namely to declare the excess of more than ten employees, to offer concrete assistance and support, then to carry out a tour of the territory of local self-government, as well as at least 20 other employers in that same place or surrounding places, as well as to work with the Council on the Employment of Local Self-Government to find an adequate solution for these workers. What I must also point out is that the National Employment Service will be obliged to make, apart from keeping records of all workers, individual plans in order to provide adequate support and assistance to these workers, of course under the law of the prescribed conditions. Unlike the previous regime, which based its policy on populism, on demagogy, on giving state money to highly non-profit enterprises, and for at least one more term to remain in power, this government, unlike them, began immediately with structural reforms, with reforms that mean economic recovery for today, but also for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30184	The word has Milan Stevanović, and to prepare Vuceta Toskovic. Sign up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30185	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with associates, I'm going to talk about the Excise Act because that's obviously the most interesting thing today. I think the EPS is now at the turning point. Why? The European Union has ordered that five of our thermal power plants be closed or renovated in the next 10 or 15 years. These aren't small capacities. There is “Nikola Tesla,” there is the Colubara, about 1,800 megawatts, and Morava. We must now consider whether we will have the money to do so, whether we intend to join the EU or not. The planning process in our power system is not easy. On the one hand, the government is trying and trying to reduce spending through the savings of all our citizens, which is justifiable and what all the countries in the world are doing. On the other hand, we want to increase electricity consumption because it is the backbone of development, but this development cannot be continued to develop production. For example, in 2013, we signed a contract for "Kostolac", and only in 2019 will we have electricity from "Kostolac". We need to think seriously about when and how we plan in the power system. That's why I think we should turn to the only source of energy that, like everyone else, isn't developed enough in our space, and it's permanent, huge and free. We have 365 days a year and it's called the sun. 15 days ago, Tesla, an American company, presented the latest systems that allow each household to preserve the electricity it receives through solar energy. It's been a huge problem so far, but not just for households, they're suggesting it in general for the economy and they've made a map of America where they've shown that there are enough pixels from that big map to make solar systems that will fully meet the need of a huge American industry. It's very important that we do it now. Where this money we're going to get to finish and turn to an alternative energy source, it will soon become the main source of energy. There's not enough fossil fuels, and this is all for free. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30186	The word is Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30187	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must refer to the discussions of previous MPs from the past regime for the simple reason that they think that we have forgotten everything that happened from 5 October to 2012. So the power was taken over on the bayonets. The first year was who would do anything from the ministries, who would put themselves in the right place. All the other years were kind of monotonous and nothing was going on. Our people say there's a burden at all times. We inherited, if we count for one year, we inherited 11 large Bremans, so to speak, who fell on the burden of this government and its president, Alexander Vukic. Everything you've done by 2012, you've managed, for the sake of the people who are watching us, to destroy the entire economy of the Republic of Serbia, everything that's worked out has been ruined, sold and no longer exists. Now let's move on to the bill we're talking about. It is good that this Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Act of Accises has come to the Assembly to discuss it, because it is important in implementing reforms that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic has started, and I claim that he will successfully finish them. These reforms are difficult, painful, unpopular, disputed, by those who in 12 years have not announced any recovery of this country. God forbid they're in power now, the streets would run with honey and milk, as they say. By passing this law, as well as many others, slowly but surely the reforms result. My little one has experienced and survived many failed reforms in the former Yugoslavia, which only promised a better life for the citizens of then-Yugoslavia. But he was also at that time preventing social peace from being thoroughly implemented by reforms. And so to this day, i.e. until three years ago. No one thought of starting reforms to get this country out of a bad situation. For the first time since World War II, a young man has dared to start reforms in Serbia, not for himself, but for Serbia and its citizens, which is Aleksandar Vukic, whether you like it or not. I am now experiencing these reforms, as are many citizens of Serbia, with the hope that they will be successfully implemented and that the reform priorities will be reform, not that the priorities will be citizens' social peace, just for the sake of staying in power. That is what the Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, will not allow himself or others who dispute reforms, even if they are of power. Reforms have started and they will be successful, regardless of many disputes. There are also those whose reforms do not respond, which would in a monopolistic way threaten the reforms, but the government will not allow it. In order for reforms to be successful, many laws, as well as this excise law, are passed, which regulate and provide the tax system and finance and the exercise of rights in both the state, the Republic of Serbia, established by the Constitution and the law. I will not speak and enter into the details of these laws, but I will talk about the needs of imposing excise duties, in order for Serbia's budget to have a regular inflow. It is important to align the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EC and the Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, with the provisions of the Transitional Agreement on Trade and Trade. Harmonisation of excise duty, policy, is first and foremost reflected in further alignment with the EU energy tax system and the Community's restructuring directive on the base of taxation of energy and electricity. This law proposes extending the subject matter which would be taxed by excise duty and electricity. In addition, the adoption of this law creates conditions for the implementation of the agreement reached concerning fiscal consolidation, which is the basis for implementing the IMF Agreement, so that this law will ensure, on the one hand, a more stable inflow of excise assets in the Republic budget and, on the other hand, a more economical consumption of electricity. By prescribing electricity excises at a rate of 7.5% on the basis of all electricity, which includes all costs directly related to the supply of energy, and in accordance with the law governing the energy area, an annual increase in tax revenues of around 17 billion dinars will be ensured, with an estimated revenue of five billion and 400 million by the end of the year. What will the effects of passing this law be? Conditions are being created for the implementation of the agreement reached concerning fiscal consolidation. The failure to pass this law will not achieve a goal that is intended to be achieved. The adoption of this law in a systematic and overall way, where legal certainty is also understood, is also taxed on electricity with excise duty. This law will increase the retail electricity price for end-users, except for those consumers who are exempt from excise duties. The question of the positive consequences of the costs of these amendments to the law, therefore, a more stable inflow of funds in the excise budget, on the other hand, more economical electricity consumption, justify these costs. So, SNS and I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30188	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30189	Thank you, Madam President. I listened very carefully to the debate today, and here I can freely say that today the National Assembly was the scene of two concepts, two policies. And when I say -- two concepts, two policies, I don't think there are good guys and bad guys, in the sense that some bad guys increase the price of electricity through a change in excises, and some other good guys wouldn't do it or didn't do it. If we look at the years behind us, we see that the parties of the former regimes that today have been so keenly pushing against not only this law but the minority to get them off the agenda, it is evident that in each year the authorities, from 2000 to 2000, at least once, and also happened three times a year when electricity prices increased, so in 2000 and 1 March and 1 June and 1 October, they changed the price of electricity, increased from 9.5 to 14.1%. In 2001, and on April 15th, they increased the electricity price by 36.9%, and in 2001 it was the year the electricity increased more and more times, so on June 1st they increased 40%. And that was small, so they increased the electricity price by another 15% on 9 October 2001. In 2002, it was the maximum year, at least when it comes to electricity prices, i.e. an increase in electricity prices. So on July 1, 2002, they increased the electricity price by 50%. Not these 12.5%, Mr. Minister, whose consent you came to the National Assembly today, but for 50%. I wonder – what were the mothers, parents, cooking milk for the children, making eggs or whatever, what the turned-over fellow Veseinović was talking about today. In 2003, on July 1st, the increase was 15%, so on July 1st again in a year, in 2004 13%, and on July 1st 2005, 9.5%, and on April 1st, with the April 1st joke 15%, but this 15% increase in electricity prices was not a April joke but a reality. In 2007, 15 May, 15% etc., etc. until another April untasteful joke, 1 April 2011, when the electricity price increased by 15.1%. And that's not all. What proves my first claim is that there are two concepts here, that someone is doing something bad and someone would not do it, but only that they would do it much more drastically and much more, is also an indication that the then CEO of EPS, Mr Dragomir Markovic, said on February 19, 2012 – that the company's business plan, which was run by the former regime, did not foresee an increase in electricity prices in 2011, because they had already increased by 15.1%, but that by the end of 2014, the electricity price must be collected, i.e. to raise 60%. That's what these foreign leftists, your people who care about cooking milk, and what they're going to do and how children in Serbia are going to eat and there's no concept, otherwise. If they were able to run the government of the Republic of Serbia and our country, they would have done the same thing even more drastically and even worse, they would have increased the price of electricity. No good guys and no bad guys. There's a conflict here and a collision of two other concepts. They increased the power they wanted and wanted. Do you know where they spent it? Only in 2011, they spent 343 million dinars spent EPS in 2011. If we know that EPS is the only power distributor, and we don't have a market, in terms of more players on that market, and if we know that EPS is a monopoly, what kind of media campaign? Who needs an EPS commercial? What kind of concerts requires it to write the name of the Elektroprivreda Serbia, and to cost it all in 2011 alone 343 million dinars. What kind of modernisation of the EPS through 80 million donation dinars is only one football club in 2011 that he probably cheered for. I don't want to mention the name of that club. Maybe I'm rooting for it. Cheered, did not cheer, with money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should not be treated so irresponsiblely. It's one concept and that concept you showed. And, for such a concept and for such a policy, Serbian citizens said - no. The second policy and second concept run by the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, is a healing policy. We promised heavy measures a year and a half ago, and in the campaign before the last parliamentary elections, I said a million times, and I broke all of Serbia, I said a million times -- we have to bring things that are unpopular. We have to do things that are difficult. Why? To heal our economic finances. What economic concept is that you are increasing the price of electricity, summed up by 1600 percent, and that you are also increasing public debt and that public finances are in the state they are in? How do you explain that? This is one of the steps, difficult steps, but the steps that are necessary to implement and to make sure that the full recovery of public finances is cured. And the problem is that people don't trust you, and then you're going to spend that money honestly, because you didn't spend it fairly, because you spent on 340, 350 million dinar concerts, and you spent almost that much on football teams. Unlike us, which money, as Mr Vujovic came here today to seek support for such a concept that we spend on healing public finances, that the sooner we stop there, according to counterpart Marinkovic, the green branch. The sooner we get back the debts we didn't take, the sooner we didn't make that Alexander Wolf, but he's bound to pay back. What about the billion and 200 million euros it takes this year just to get back through the interest on the loans that were taken, raised in 2008, 2009, 2010, the grace period passed, the lullaby went through, and then you left that awakening to us. There's been a lot of ignorant talk here. I'm free to say ignorant. But when someone doesn't know, as Mr. Zivkovic did, who says there is no gross domestic VAT. Well, Mr. Vujovic taught him so well, collegiately, finely, pietomo. On the other hand, we don't even get one – I'm sorry, we get the next insult. What can Serbian citizens think when public finances are told by someone who does not know there is a gross domestic VAT. How will he know just some more complicated things? How will he know and how Serbia's citizens will feel, and I believe it was a small, unconscious slip, a fellow Sutanovac who wrote - an accent, and I'm inclined to do so, but I'm willing to apologize. And that's what I did, but we haven't heard from a fellow Shutanover that he said-- sorry, I made a mistake, because I don't know what an excise is, and what an excise is. There were many other things that were said, and at least about what was concrete. He told a colleague that a 3% savings was made for goods and services, when Minister Vujovic proved it was 11%, we didn't hear sorry. We have not heard of it. It is an honor to you because you work in this way. Why? Because it's a tried-out recipe for DS and Bojan Pajtic to save on everyone but himself, on his administration. Well, it is in the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development of the AP Vojvodina, that the largest number of complaints about abuses and malfeasances relate to the allocation and use of funds to co-finance technological preparation and build new capacities in the area of new technologies in municipalities in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Well, three billion 222 million 367 thousand 660 dinars were placed from 2006 to 31 December 2012. The total debt of companies to the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development amounts to slightly less than a billion and 700 million dinars, and of 114 legal figures 55 or slightly more than 40% are extremely suspicious and controversial from the point of view of their legality and economic justification. This is how we will get to Ekotep, Dandi, Merkator, Zobeks, Nedina product from Banat Sokolac and so on. Is that regular? Is that how spending the funds of Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina is regulated and correct and real? Is the correct relationship when in the budget and can compare the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the AP Vojvodina. See then when you compare, look and see, let's just say for the travels of the province's prime minister with incomplete 6% support, rape of democracy, predicted for yourself four times more means of travel than is foreseen by the republican budget for the republican Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. What are the powers of the province and how broad the powers of the republican prime minister? Now they're going to tell us -- well, you're going to increase the electricity price, and you're going to spend 17 billion dinars in the budget, or by the end of 2015 that income is going to be an extra 5.4 billion dinar, otherwise. You who use and spend four times as much as the Republic's prime minister spends for the Prime Minister's travel alone. There was talk here about party employment. What about the party's money-sharing? What about those competitions that the AP Vojvodina assigned only and exclusively to its staff and members. Well, do you think only members of the DS in Vojvodina are involved in humanitarian work? There is no other humanitarian organization. The prerequisite for obtaining these funds, grants is membership in the DS. The height determines who you're close to in DS. I believe, and I don't want to challenge this replica or speak in a persuasive sense, but I believe that whoever is close to a colleague Stefanovic will get but a little. But if you're close to Jesic, maybe a little more. But if you're close to Pitiæ, you're writing a number, it's open, the warrant's open. I don't know what Mr. Sutanov's position is. What do those close to him get? In fact, there's no one close to Mr. Shutanovec, I'm sorry. All in all, Mr Vujovicu, the SNS will accept its responsibility and accept its responsibility, we will support this bill because we know that the money will thus be collected by the end of this year of 5.4 billion dinars, i.e. just over 17 billion dinars, as the projection on the annual level will come into the right hands and will come for the right goals. The real goal is to heal our public finances, to come to that green branch, to think and to negotiate which, I'm sure you'll be leading by the end of this year on the real increase in wages and pensions, not on unrealistic grounds. I know that this money will be in the hands of people who, in a fair and responsible way, have that money and therefore will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30190	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30191	This is how it says on the Ministry of Finance's website – in the first five months of 2015, for goods and services, 2.7% were reduced expenditures and employee expenditures decreased by 13.3%. The Ministry of Finance, their website, in the first five months, and it's just the Republic. Where are the others? Travel expenses for the prime minister are expenditures that you carry out skillfully, relating to the expenditures of the cabinets, but you don't pay any expenses for the work of joint operations, the airline and everything else, you don't. Also, you speak very wisely of healing. What kind of healing? You didn't answer the basic question either, nor did the minister. What kind of recovery will take place in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which will receive some funding from this increase over the back of Serbian citizens, to reduce the deficit, and that will decrease, but no one in Serbia will be paid, except for those who are interested in you. So, you're going to have a smaller deficit, no payments, no transfers to local self-government, an increase in prices, a reduction in tax revenues, absolutely nothing you've done in three years, to say that it's a success. That's a fact. Specify one successful thing you've done, one, and we can list many successful from the past and even more unsuccessful from the past. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: What is the deficit? ) You will reduce the deficit to zero, as far as I'm concerned, it's an honor for you, but in Serbia everyone will starve to death. So you can reduce the deficit very easily, no payments, no drugs like now, no pensions, no salaries, no nobody can pay any bill, no donations, i.e. transfers to local self-government, no infrastructure projects, no development, no factories, just layoffs. Well, you guys are so great.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30192	Thank you very much. You've wasted your time on the replica. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30193	Just for the information. The data you are referring to refers to a general state involving the AP Vojvodina, all the local levels of government, Serbia's corridors, the roads of Serbia, and that is not the authority of this parliament. The responsibility of this parliament is the republican budget and I have quoted the figures that I have said very precisely and relate to the plan and implementation of the republican budget, where the reduction is 11%. We planned, as I mentioned the number 26.7 achieves 2.5 billion less, so we saved over the 11% plan, and the plan was already a reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30194	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30195	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I am taking the opportunity to address you in a replica, because I think Serbian citizens expect solutions from you, not from those who today are trying to convince them that electricity is being imposed, because someone has worked badly until 2012. You said the plan in the budget was achieved by having 11% of the cost, in the first three months, if I understood correctly? You want to tell me one country in the world, where does the 11% plan go over one side and the other and say that the plan was real and good? This is just saying that you've had a bad plan from the start. So 11% in three months, that's at an annual level of 45%, what, five months, means 25% on the annual level, the plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30196	Ambassador, you asked for a replica, the minister did not mention you, you received a replica of Zoran Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30197	No, I don't speak personally, Grandma, I can replicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30198	But, no, you can't talk to whoever you want right now, only to me, but to actually send a message to Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30199	There were words here, you took 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30200	Yes, but I can take two minutes away from you, so much you know, especially when you abuse the Rules of Procedure. So, you can't argue with Minister Vujovic now, you're asking to replicate Zorana Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30201	But I am forbidden to speak to Babic personally in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30202	It's not funny. So you're talking to me, and Minister Vujovic is also forbidden to speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30203	Then I'll talk to you. We were told to increase excise duties to reduce the deficit. What's going on, Mr. Minister, or Madam Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30204	Thank you very much. I will rule out because I understood that you were looking for a replica just to answer Zoran Babić, because he mentioned you, not in a very bad context, but I allowed in a single sentence, he said – who has a friend, and who has no friends. Thank you so much for understanding that I'm going to run this session properly. Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Babic, and this is a replica of Borislav Stefanovic. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: When did he mention him? I know what I'm doing. Don't worry about it at all. You could only answer him for saying you didn't have a friend, you didn't want to, and you wanted to extend the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30205	Thank you, Madam President. Speaking of these economic indicators, I admit that I don't know much about the economy, I distinguish excises from excises, but I'm learning daily, and I'm willing to admit a mistake, but by these economic indicators, when in one country, three years in a row, and I think Mr. Vujovic, the growth deficit, then the red lamp, is on fire, is said to be said – there are also a lot of measures that will stop this deficit growth and reduce it. Serbia was the only country in the world, five years in a row with the growth of deficits, five years even the prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, talked about some things at the meetings of the Government of Serbia, but was too loud from some people who are here today, in words – what you know by words – must go into unrealistic increases and wages and various other things, only for political purposes. When we talk about these good measures, in 2012, by changing government in Serbia, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the Republic of Serbia's budget was liquid in 15 days, in 15 days there was money left in the budget, for half a salary, for half a pension, we were away from the total collapse for 15 days. What a colleague said earlier, yes, you can, but if the citizens were hungry and I don't know what they're doing in Serbia. Your policy has brought them to 15 days of such a scenario.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30206	Dr. Dusan Vujovic has the advantage, but you're just going to tell me what line you're replicating to? (Dusan Vujovic, from the post: I answer two specific questions to Mr Sutanovac. He can't, because his word was taken from him and he had no right to speak to you. We're in another phase now, now it's the replicas, Minister, so because of that, it's a little complicated all of it. Janko Veselinović has the right to a replica, mentioned by his name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30207	Thank you, President. Since 1881, the first light bulb in Belgrade, in the "Hamburg" pub, owned by Petar Jovanovic, has not occurred to anyone to impose an excise on electricity. So, since 1881, no one's been charging the charges because...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30208	MPs, no offense, so I don't turn out to be some kind of witch here right now. You asked for the word to replicate Zoran Babić because he mentioned you by your name and said "turn" and this is what you want to replace all the time you spent successfully during the discussion. So, we all know how to do it, it's skillful, but it's also good for me to interrupt you, or you're going to deny what the MP said and you consider yourself called, and you're not going to discuss it with the minister because then I have no right to not give him a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30209	This was about Mr. Babic's discussion, but I'll continue...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30210	No, just where you were mentioned, and everything else was about everyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30211	Mr. Babic mentioned...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30212	That you were "turned, Ambassador Janko Veselinović", only that sentence was the basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30213	No, I don't. So Mr. Babic was talking about the way and justifying the way this government introduces electricity excise... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30214	Thank you very much. It wasn't about you. It's his right to state what he thinks. Thank you very much. I am concluding a debate on the list of MPs. I'm asking if someone in article 96 wants a word. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. We'll go in order, by the size of the parliamentary group, I think it's so correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30215	Thank you, President. There was this debate, and there wasn't much going on in the arguments compared to the beginning. I have not been able to hear the explanation why, if they are such good and great results, not how you ministers claim, but colleagues who will vote for this law, in a state of budget today, why is a new imposition imposed on citizens to fill the budget? If we've cut the budget deficit to almost zero, why are we introducing a new imposition to the citizens? You tried to explain something and I understood it. We can talk now whether what you want to achieve with this measure is good or not, but unfortunately from those who will vote for this law we haven't heard anything from what you said. All they heard was that it was wonderful and great, and that it was all due to Alexander Vukic, not those pensioners who were taken away by five, ten, fifteen, twenty percent, not those who worked in the state administration almost half a million people, teachers, cops, health workers, who were taken 10% of the salary. They're the only ones who deserve it. That recognition by the MPs who would vote for this law was not, but there were old stories again about who kept or did not keep a pre-election promise. We heard a reminder of a minister sitting in the government for three years, not as long as you said -- we'll cut the electricity price in 2011 20%, as soon as we get to power. Three years have passed, not even 1% since then. Today it's increasing 12.33% as calculated. As Minister Stefanovic said, there will be no reduced pensions in February 2014, so they were reduced, or reduced in October. You told us here, you were here when we discussed "Belgrade on Water", we heard how the project would be completed in four years, after not four, it's phase A1 but for ten, and when the contract was signed we see that it's 30 years old. Why should we trust you now? Why should the citizens trust you? You're showing one serious inconsistencies. He keeps saying that someone made a public debt, 15.4 billion euros was the state of public debt in July 2012. You said today it's 23.6. That's an 8.2 billion increase in three years. The previous increase was about seven, I think, billions in four years. Whether it will stop, whether that trend will change, I would like to, but I'm not sure because we're talking about today whether the GDP growth rate in Serbia is going to be minus 0.5 or plus 0.5 or somewhere around zero. Look in the environment, 3%, 3.5% in the countries around us. Because we're not competing with them. We're competing with an imaginary zero. Who's supposed to change that? The government that was until 2012 or this government that has been running the country for three years? You can go back to 2012, 2010, 2011, but where's the future, where's something that's going to happen for citizens to live better? I believe that's what we all want, but today is not a measure that will bring about a better life for the citizens. We'll listen to these stories of whether there'll be an increase in salaries or pensions. They cannot be increased, they must first return to the level of adjustment, before the adjustment, as you said, from October of last year, and then by law, let's say that pensions are to be increased, as is already the formula for increasing pensions each year, which is now suspended. So, thanks to your good work to say, we're going to increase something else now. You cannot speak – we will increase your pensions without returning them to what level it was before the reduction. Until you do, there's no increase. I ask you one more time, when will there be budget rebalance? If the situation is so good, you are obliged to have a rebalance here before the end of the year to see what happened, how this surplus money that exists, or lack of deficit, will be used, as all the budget commitments have been made. If we didn't have this discussion, do you say that 11% of the budget is on the site, you say it's at the level of the entire state? It's a serious complicated debate, and I'm not very good at it either, but here is a place where we, all MPs, should discuss it regardless of their knowledge of the economy. We are here in front of citizens to contribute best in the way we know and know how to make the best decisions for their lives. This is not a decision that will make citizens better neither at present nor in perspective. There are other ways to fill the budget, reduce the deficit, and we want to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30216	The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30217	Well, we've been back to the same things a few times today, so I'll try to explain it quickly. So, what we are first about is whether or not we are planning well, we are planning within the limits that we have in the budgetary system, that is, the Budgetary System Act, in the way we design revenue, because we are limited by both the obligations and the standards imposed on us by international organisations and the knowledge we have on the economy. What we were doing when we were making the budget, I seemed to have told us – don't blame us if we had better; so we said, we'll have as much rebalancing as it takes. Rebalance is only needed if you have a deficit. So, if during the fiscal year there is an increase in expenditures and expenditures or revenue cuts, the budget is balanced by reducing planned expenditures and expenditures and importing new revenues, it is a rebalance. We have a situation where rebalancing is not necessary because we are making bigger revenues, I said 42.3 billion higher revenues, we are making less current expenditures of 26 billion and less capital expenditure, which we are not boasting, that's a mistake, but we are making a minus 8.5 billion. We have a total of 76.8 billion improvements. So we don't need deficits, we make bigger incomes and less expenditure. That's the opposite of Article 47. Budgetary system law. Secondly, we don't have the need, there may be a situation where you don't have enough resources on your appraisals, so you have to do, budget law allows 10% redistribution. We don't have that situation anywhere. When we do, we'll turn around. But to compare, one comparison, a comfortable situation, 191 billion deficits are like an Olympic norm, we skipped 2 meters and 191, we went to the Olympics, now you're telling me don't set a record. Well, we jumped and we set a record and now what? Secondly, we jumped once, and we want these excise duties to be what we've accomplished for the last five months, some things there are permanent, I think things on the side of income, VAT, excise and customs, but some things aren't permanent, especially those on the side of expenditure and some things on the side of income. We have 28.5 billion extraordinary revenues from public enterprises. I expect that there will be at least half of it, but no one can bet, since public enterprises are slowly being restructured and we need permanent sources of income in the structural budget, so-called. Those who count for economic policy measures are subject to permanent obligations, which are obligations towards pensioners, according to public sector employees, obligations under contracts, interest rates are part of these contracts, etc. We also have permanent sources of income that are only hard sources of income, which are VAT revenues, customs revenues, at existing rates and the existing level of performance of these revenues. We need an additional source of hard revenue to create space for ourselves to talk about what the public expects, which is a real, small review, a stimulating revision of wage cuts and pensions, to make people feel better than anything they do. So, I say, we need excise duty as a structural measure in this moment. That's the difference between the current one, where we have the results we boast about. At the level of the first five months, we achieved a deficit of only 25 instead of 90, 75 million. If you look at the level of six months, it's going to be 30 instead of 107, 76-77 million again. So 600 million more have been achieved, and if we don't save anything by the end of the year, our deficit will be reduced from 191 to 120, 115, 116 billion dinars. That's how much less we'll be in charge. That's how much sooner we're gonna start a debt in the social product. For so much we'll create space to turn all things around and invest. There are many good proposals, to invest in new energy sources, energy savings and everything else and we'll do it. Only the Fund and we ourselves can't afford to increase our permanent liabilities, and that's all these things we do with wages, pensions and all that, without a permanent source of income. That's the part of the mistake in the past where we used a temporary increase in income to justify lasting obligations. Well, that's, that gap brings the country to a crisis. The fiscal consolidation is to put this in order, to reduce the participation of deficits in the social product permanently and to reverse the participation of debt in the social product, and we do so. It won't give in itself economic growth, it won't give itself a solution to a bunch of our problems, but it'll create a sound basis for us to solve it all and move forward, to finally after 20 and a few years stand on the hard side, get to the stone and move on. Without it, major foreign investments and improving financing in Serbia will not happen. We still have the interest margins 6-7% today. If there was nothing else in this country, if we didn't have any other problems, it would have stopped investment in itself. Therefore, we do all this to heal this economy and put it in a position to grow from small businesses to large systems, which will be able to function and grow in Serbia. We can do, perhaps, a special session, where we will have no discussion about the laws, but discuss an explanation of the concept of economic policy and the reform we offer. So there are a lot of things that I accept are not simple, but it's very important that the links between short and medium-term measures are just like that. So we have a three-year program to reduce in the first year, and then translate it into permanent measures that will allow us to get out as soon as possible. If we continue with this dynamic, we reduce the deficit a year, a year and a half earlier than we originally planned. We'll re-route the norm, but I think that's a good thing. That's a mistake in planning, let me say. Part of that mistake, half of it, at least, wouldn't let us. They would not allow us to design higher revenues than those that have been historically achieved because the Fund has a conservative policy and says – better than more. And with social product, better than more, because if you overestimate, then you're in trouble. Secondly, very important, today you mentioned the issue of fiscal performance in 2012 and 2015. The source on which it is based is the Fiscal Council report, which speaks of some efficiency, which is a much more complex measure. It's the efficiency of collecting income. These are not necessarily revenues, as the citizens see them. This is not an absolute amount of revenue, but the amount of fiscal revenues achieved in relation to the capacity of the economy. We will analyse, if you wish, we will send you an answer to the parliamentary question about how it is moving and what our explanation of such movements is. Please note one thing, that there was a fall in 2013 and in 2014 already improved, not large, but improved, and we expect that in 2015, so far. But it's a much more complex measure. This will be effective, to which it is calculated, but it is one more complex economic category that needs to be understood to the end, because it measures which would be the basis for collecting VAT at the appropriate level of income, as consumption stagnates with us because of the measures we are introducing. Then, too, this measure behaves much slower, or slower, to improve. Finally, just to say one thing, because of the citizens of Serbia, is the question of sustainability of the measure. We are doing all this to come from the short term to long-term sustainable measures. It's easy to release the belt immediately when you've lost two pounds of the belt and go back to where you've been. It wasn't our problem, we even had fiscal liquidity last year two billion and we could easily not go to such drastic and unpopular measures, but we are doing this because we want a permanent recovery of Serbia's economy. As you know, macromonetary 2% inflation, macro-fiscal 0.9% deficit, and then we have a solution to companies with structural problems, which are in the Privatisation Agency. No one likes it, but it's cancer-inflicted our economy for 20, 30 years. None of us individually thinks he's even been there to create these problems. Now we're all involved in the resolution. Finally, public enterprises and public administration reform. These are all the big things we have to solve. I understand that it's part of a political debate that everyone transfers or interprets reality in political light, but I think there should be at least a part of these measures that are common task, where we all need to get out of this situation that happened in the gradual development of the event since 1989, I think, to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30218	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. You have three minutes and 21 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30219	Thank you. For the very end, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I'm going to bring out something that's hard to argue with and that it can be leprosy from anyone in this room and this room. It is not realistic to expect and should not expect citizens to take the measures we are introducing kindly. It's not realistic to expect these measures to be taken as popular. It is not realistic to expect them to take kindly the increase in electricity prices by introducing excise duties at any level, at any amount, but it is also realistic to expect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to understand the reasons for the necessity of introducing these measures and to accept the facts as they are, and the facts are next. These measures, first of all, are in line with the IMF, because if it wasn't for that alignment, there would be no model of the introduction of measures this way, as we do today. The second fact is undeniable, which is that these measures contribute to achieving stability of the Republic of Serbia's budget. A third fact that can also not be doubted is the fact that conditions are being created that Serbia's Elektroprivreda is stabilised, both by these measures and by the restructuring process. Today, unfortunately, the abused statement by Energy Minister Aleksandar Antic has been brutally abused, extracting from the context of something he allegedly said as a citizen. I must draw attention to the fact that Alexander Antic, as a very responsible minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, voted in favour of the bill and that he, along with you, respected ministers, has explained these facts and reasons that point to the necessity of introducing these measures. Thus, the SPS unequivocally supports these laws, unequivocally supporting the introduction of excise duties. I'll repeat what I said today. If Croatia has imposed excise duties for over 20 years, if Slovenia has imposed excise duties for more than 15 years, and both countries have gone through what we are going through now, because we are entering the harmonisation process and we want to carry out the harmonisation procedure by the end, and they have implemented the harmonisation process, and even though they have harmonised their excise policy with EU fiscal policy, they have continued to introduce excises, i.e. increases. The Croatian government regulated the issue of increasing excise duties, and Slovenia, for the sake of informing citizens, did the same by allowing up to 50% of the excise duties to be increased. With that, and for the opposition SPS will always return to the past...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30220	Thank you. You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30221	Just two sentences, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30222	Yeah, but you've already been there.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30223	Just two sentences, please. ... We will always go back to the past to draw those conclusions and lessons from the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30224	Thank you. Now I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30225	Please, just let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30226	I can't really. I can't. How rigid I am to others I must treat you as well. I think you used it all the time today. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, three minutes and 54 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30227	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, today to recapture, we have had the most pressing debate over amendments and the addition of the Excise Act, although the draft legislation on the confirmation of the loan agreement was also very important, especially for the reform of the administration and part of the obligations of public enterprises, as well as for the part relating to the administration on land, but we have also had confirmation of the Convention concerning a new system of work, when we talk about transit of goods and services, and that is what shows that this Government cares about exporters. If we are talking about amendments and additions to the Excise Act, today we should exclusively tell all citizens that the Serbiaagas Supervisory Board has decided that from 1 July, gas will be cheaper by 12.58%, which means that there is still one high degree of responsibility for this government and in financial terms, and also in that social sense that wherever there is an opportunity to find a place to meet all citizens, that somewhere where we can get cheap and come out to meet those who use different kinds of energy, then it does, especially when it comes to gas, because when we go to energy, such as gas, it means that we use healthy energy sources and think about our environment. When we talk about excise duty for the first time in parliament, then it should be said that never before has any authority wanted to discuss it in one transparent way and therefore should support this law with all its heart, not only because it shows the will to talk to all relevant entities, but because it shows a high degree of responsibility to all of us, and first to the state. The high degree of responsibility of those who ruled until 2012 would best show those who had pastures on Vračar, who could systems of renewable energy that grow there, produce electricity, give a good example to all of us how green surfaces should be used, but if that is not possible, if there are buildings worth three thousand euros per square, then you should be realistic and say that you have misused what you have to display a lower tax for the state. If you're acting like this, then you're setting an example for the citizens that what is not within the law should be sanctioned. Therefore, we thank the finance minister for coming out with the proposal of these laws extremely transparent today, which has shown that responsibility can be shared among all of us, and that Serbia's citizens will certainly benefit from these measures, as already today all gas users will have as much electricity as they will be increased, according to the 7.5 excise system, and up to 12.33 for electricity, practically by 12.58% of gas will be cheaper. With justification, we can say that this set of laws should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30228	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 6 of the agenda. We move to a united debate on points 7 and 8 of the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs and in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the abolition of visas for the citizens of the two countries and the Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the conduct of paid jobs of family members employed in their diplomatic missions, consular representations or missions in international government organisations. Does Minister Dusan Vujovic, as a proposing representative, want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30229	I would just like to say briefly that the agreement on the visa-free regime between Serbia and Moldova is a standard agreement that Serbia has concluded with a large number of countries and therefore does not require, it seems to me, no further explanations, and the agreement with Finland on the authorisation, i.e. giving rights to spouses, people employed in embassies and consulates, that in the territory of the country in which they are located in the service they are entitled to work, and that is so on. The standard contract format that Serbia has signed with a large number of countries and I think that the expansion and integration of Finland into this system does not change anything legally, does not change anything statusual, but only allows Finland, which is a very active investor in Serbia, to do all the jobs here normally, especially in a consular area where their presence in regions and Serbia will be more noticeable. So I expect us to support that. It's a completely standard agreement and it's in line with our contracts so far signed. It improves the investment climate in Serbia, improves conditions for the work of diplomats in Serbia. For me, it is very important to note that all Scandinavian countries, which otherwise have very strict standards, find Serbia a very receptive space with a good investment climate and I expect this to improve the quality of their diplomatic presence and improve the possibility of quality investment in countries where Ericsson works and similar companies, to develop production in Serbia, namely their diplomatic and economic presence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30230	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30231	Your Honor, I must first express my surprise that today at 15 to 6 we have started discussing these points of the agenda, but good. This is possible under the Rules of Procedure and the obvious desire is not to discuss these agreements much. They're typical. I agree. They repeat one of the typical things we have already adopted, it seems to me that the country of Switzerland with which the agreement is similar, as between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland. I then welcomed the introduction of marriages, or marriages in which partners are not of different sexes. In Article 1, the family member says - marks the spouse, registered partner in accordance with the laws of the country of transmission and provided that he is reported in this capacity by the foreign ministry of the state of transmission and that he is the holder of diplomatic or official travel documents. When we discussed this agreement with Switzerland there were some dilemmas, whether it is, that is, that it is not in accordance with our laws and with our lighthouse and whether it should or should not be, I think I should welcome it because that is how this law on the confirmation of the Agreement at a small door, that such marriages are recognised and believed and I hope that this is how it will be soon established in our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30232	Does anyone else want a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? Nobody. We're moving on to the list. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30233	I have to admit, I didn't get the list of speakers. I'm reporting with a surprise...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30234	You signed up to speak as an independent MP. You certainly speak first.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30235	Yeah, but I didn't get a list of speakers. It makes sense that I get a list of speakers before the debate starts, that I know who I am on the list, etc., etc. But, well, you probably meant to have this part...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30236	I have no intention. The work was extended at 1600 hours to work longer than 1800 hours. The MPs are obliged then to work and do not implicate anyone who has continued to work, to have a intention like this or one. If you want a minute break to get... (Janko Vesenović, from the city: The Rules of Procedure say... ) Don't argue with me, you didn't get the word to argue with me, but you got the word because you applied for this point yesterday. Then you should have waited for the day we moved to the point. So I can talk about other intentions. I am setting a 30-second break to get a list of several MPs, as Janko Veselinovic does not want to use his right to speak, although he applied first on the list. Thank you. Only 30 seconds, since there aren't many reported. There'll be a list. First give MP Janko Veselinović that list. The Rules of Procedure do not say, lists should be given, lists should not be given, but applications are relevant, but we can also work past the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30237	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30238	You're putting me in an awkward situation. Do you want to talk about agreements or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30239	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30240	Please return time to Ambassador Janko Veselinovic to talk about the agreements because he changed his mind. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30241	So, today, we had a debate about imposing electricity on electricity. Now we're talking about another topic, a subject unfortunately where this government has no success, and that's foreign policy. The fact is that we stand, tap, if we don't go back and take a step back in European integration. There are two agreements ahead of us. One is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries, and another is between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland. In any case, a certain number of citizens will certainly take advantage of the possibility to go to Moldova without visas, and it is certainly useful for citizens of Serbia, the truth is that a small number of citizens travel to the Republic of Moldova. Surely this will not affect the position and standard of Serbian citizens, as the point of introduction of electricity, excise energy, and new burdens on the Serbian citizens' budgets that are increasingly difficult to live on in the morning. It's probably hard for them to imagine going to Moldova, especially after these measures by the Prime Minister, when he made it impossible, i.e. they have to sneak across the border, but it's possible that some other government will come one day to encourage travel abroad...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30242	Moldova and Finland, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30243	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30244	Moldova and Finland are on the agenda, since you signed up yesterday, you probably know something about the laws, about the content of the agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30245	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30246	So we're not talking about immigrants, we're talking about agreements between...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30247	This isn't about the President of the Immigrants...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30248	I will not give in, between Serbia and Moldova, as well as the agreement between Serbia and Finland.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30249	Therefore, between Serbia and Moldova, the visa waiver agreement has been concluded, i.e. free flow, i.e. traffic, crossing, visit to the border of one country and another. I say that citizens do not have a budget to travel beyond Serbia's borders because they have reduced salaries, pensions, because this government has impoverished the people and therefore they cannot go on vacation to Palic either. They can't even go to Lake Pine, not Moldova. I say this is useful, but it's possible for another period when this government is past. I'll vote for this agreement, it's not disputed. I suppose the other MPs of the opposition, too, but I say that citizens will not benefit from this agreement because they have no budget to come to Palic, let alone Moldova.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30250	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30251	What I'd warn you about is this sunflower movement, that it's not going anywhere in this country, that our country is a free country, that in our country everyone is free and can go wherever they want, whatever they want. The fact that someone in this sunflower movement is not responding to the promotion of our country's potential, to me as patriots, to me as local patriots, to someone who comes from Serbia's most beautiful tourist site, which is Vranjska Banja, of course it suits me and of course I have warmly joined the prime minister's efforts to spend a part of the funds that we spend outside our country's borders in Serbia. Also, I'd like to warn the Sunflower movement that foreign policy is the least critical thing. Joint meetings between the government and Macedonia, with Hungary twice, with Slovenia, with Republika Srpska, the best possible relations with the Republic of Croatia, with Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia is a factor of stability in the region, respected. Especially after the last statement, the brave and dignified statements made by the prime minister of the government to go to Srebrenica to bow down to the shadows of the killed. This hypocritical smile in this sunflower movement shows only hatred, because someone works better, someone works better, because Belgrade is a good destination to visit both Mrs Merkel and Mr Putin. Because Mr. Alexander Vukic is happy to see a guest both in Brussels and Berlin, both in Paris and in Washington and Moscow.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30252	Thanks, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30253	And let the sunflower think about how they run politics from morning to night.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30254	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30255	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that you have had to warn and interrupt Mr Babic, who was bound by his departure to Srebrenica for a tourist trip. Going to Srebrenica is not a tourist trip, it may have been in his SRS, a tourist trip.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30256	Ambassador, I'm going to end this today. This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30257	So, what does it have to do with going to Srebrenica with the Moldova Agreement?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30258	I'm gonna break up this kind of discussion about this agenda point. I won't give up on this. No more replicas, no more. Indeed, such questions will not be misused, nor will we use them for day-to-day policy purposes to give each other punches under the belt, no matter who speaks. I give the word to the MP Gordani Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30259	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ministers, fellow MPs and MPs in today's address will talk about agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Moldova on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries and the Agreement with the Republic of Finland on the work of family members paid... (Janko Veselinović, from the post: President, did you not hear when he said – mutt one? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30260	You'd be kind enough to step aside. We can talk about everything after the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30261	... persons employed in their diplomatic missions, consular representations or missions by international government organisations. As regards the Agreement with the Republic of Moldova, otherwise in interstate relations, the conclusion of bilateral visa-free agreements is considered to be a significant step towards aging as favourable as possible for further improving political relations and versatile co-operation in economic, cultural, scientific and other areas of international interest and importance. In this direction, Serbia's foreign policy is also moving. Our goal is to achieve, first and foremost, a visa-free regime that simplifies and lowers procedures necessary for the movement of people from one country to another. By the way, Moldova is one of the signatories of the CEFTA agreement so that it is very important to simplify the entry and exit procedures for improving the overall, state, economic, cultural and co-operation in other areas. Otherwise, the economic co-operation of Serbia and Moldova has intensified in recent years, so from 2010 to early 2014, exports to Moldova have increased from 5.4% to 14.7%, so the visa-free regime is another motive to further improve external trade with Moldova, and this is one of the ways of this agreement today. As regards the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Finland on the employment of members of the family of civil servants, i.e. diplomatic and other staff, with compensation in accordance with the rules of the country in which employment is sought, is also important to highlight the basic objective of this agreement, which is to preserve the normal family life of diplomatic consular representatives, keeping families together, which has a significant impact on the better performance of what contributes, and which is also natural for the family to be together. When it comes to carrying out the paid work of a member of the family of the officials of the country sent, it is necessary to initiate the procedure, i.e. the submission of a request to perform paid work to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of Reception which, after establishing that there is no disturbance in the performance of the diplomatic consular office of the State, informs that the person may carry out the paid work in accordance with the rules of the State in which he is coming, in this case, the Republic of Finland. On the termination of the service, the duty shall cease and the validity of this approval, as well as the termination of this Agreement. Also, this family member does not enjoy immunity from civil and administrative jurisdiction or any judgment, which is one of the purposes of this agreement, limiting the privileges that would otherwise belong to them under the Vienna Convention on diplomatic and consular relations. The agreement is a way to properly address the problem of spouses who do not want to leave work and follow a mate who has been sent abroad to do consular work, and we know how important it is to preserve the family and the common lives of its members, especially when there are children. In the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the two agreements.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30262	The word is Zoran Zivkovic. He's not here. The word has Milan Petrovic. He's not here. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30263	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful Srljig municipality located next to the most beautiful city, which is the town of Nis and I will talk about the visa waiver agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Moldova. This is another good gesture and our government's move because this is how we want to bring our two countries closer to each other and thus bring the citizens of our two countries closer together. Moldova is recognizable by the fact that it is a agricultural country, and I come in front of the United Peasants' Party and I will always talk about agriculture because it is our best and most beautiful resource for us to work on, to live and normally, in this way, Serbian farmers can co-operate with farmers from Moldova and work together to improve the conditions in agriculture and in Moldova. By the way, Moldova is recognizable by what I said is a small agricultural country that has 12% covered the territory under the forest and most of it is arable areas. I do the production of grapes, fruits and vegetables, and in this way people in Moldova can come to us in Serbia and exchange experiences and culture and all that is needed, and the most important thing is to exchange products. First of all, I always said it was agricultural products. I don't think this is a really good thing to make this visa waiver agreement, and I'm going to vote for these agreements as a representative of the United Peasant Party because I think it's best for our Serbia, which is that we all have the freedom to go whenever we want and want to go to any country, and now we're doing it with Moldova. Once again, I will vote for this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30264	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30265	Thank you, Madam President. So, at the shortest in front of the SNS. I welcome the agreements that are on the agenda today and give unambiguous support when it comes to an agreement that abolishs visas for the Republic of Moldova. It's certainly an unambiguously useful thing, useful to our citizens. So far, there have been relaxations in the visa regime for holders of official and diplomatic passports when it comes to the Republic of Moldova, and after the entry into force of this Agreement, so will all other passports. In that sense, it is about the interest, the clear interest of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to any country in this world, when we look at the map of the world and analyze the situation with the existence, i.e. the lack of a visa regime for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the situation has been better today than ever since Serbia exists as an independent state. This way, after this agreement, the continental part of the European space is beautiful and rounded. Also, the vast spaces of Asia are in the same green color on that map of the world, a map on which the green color represents countries with which we do not need visas. We'll certainly work on making coverage even bigger when it comes to the entire planet. As regards the second agreement, the Agreement concerning the relationship between our Government and the Government of Finland with regard to the work of members of families employed in their diplomatic missions, consular representations or missions in international government organisations, therefore, only and strictly within the essence of the agreement, which certainly does not refer to any redefining of marriage communities, far from that. So each country on its own has its own rules and is absolutely not directed to enter into the problem of the other side. We certainly stick to what is in force in the Republic of Serbia and its laws on this matter are clear. The essence of the agreement was explained by counterpart Topic, and there is really nothing to add. It is about the scale applied reciprocally, it is a modern tendency and each applies it by protecting the interests of their own employees, that is, their families, and in order to enable families to follow in this kind of mission and in this type of business, so that not only our families are strengthened and maintained together, but also to make the job more efficient tomorrow, because it is known that people who are being followed by families are better engaged and their results are quality. All of this certainly, another brief comment on my part at the very end, doesn't have much to do with what was the opportunity to hear a few minutes ago. Whether or not Serbia is better today than ever in the position of European integration, it is a very simple thing and easily verifiable. It's not hard at all to determine where we are today, and where we've been in any other period, during any other government in power, at the head of the state. So it's better today than ever it's clear as night and as day. But it certainly has a lot to do with our foreign policy position and our successes, which are numerous and on which we can also find testimonies on a daily basis and they have nothing to do with the relationship between the strongest European states to us, which are now being followed by a much higher level of respect than it was before, before the entry into office of this government. It is not only measured by the level of regional co-operation and understanding within this part of our continent, which is certainly better than it has ever been before and during the term of office of any government, it is, among other things, ladies and gentlemen, measured by these agreements. These agreements are the only agreements we don't do for the first time in this session, and I'm sure we don't do them one last time. These results and the opportunity to boast of something good, we'll have a handful more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-22-0.u30266	Thank you. We've exhausted the list of speakers. Does anyone in article 96 want to come in? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the bill's proposals. We'll continue our work on Wednesday, 10:00 p.m., the amendment debate. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, Stefana Miladinović, Marjana Maras, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović and Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ACCISATION LAW. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Dusan Vujović, Finance Minister Nenad Mijailovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Dr Natasa Kovacevic, Deputy Finance Minister, Dr Anastasia Tanja Djelic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Finance and Sonja Nikolic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Ivan Jovanovic, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blažje Bradić, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Comić, Goran Markovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovic, Balša Bozović, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorović, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I'm only asking for a five-minute break to see why he hasn't entered the Minister's room yet, since the minister was just outside the building. Just enough to physically check where he's been. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. [[after breaks]] Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
