ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21398	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a session of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the People’s Assembly quorum exists when the minutes are adopted if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 138 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Natasa Vučković and Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and extremely for Friday because of the need for the National Assembly to review proposals for the agenda set out in the government’s request as soon as possible. The 11th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was delivered to you in 2014. I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Issues has shown that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the 11th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 22, 24 and 25 December 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – voted 14 out of the 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 11th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the session of this session of the National Assembly in 2015, the following Dn e v n e d 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Ministry Act, 2. Proposal for a deposit insurance law, 3. Proposal for a law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, 4. Proposal for a Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Bank Act. National MP Djordje Milicevic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on: a draft law supplementing the Law on Ministrys, a draft law on deposit insurance, a draft law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, a draft law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks. I ask MP Gjorge Milicevic if he wants a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – five abstentions – there are no votes, six of the total 148 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Ministrys, Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Banks and Liquidation and Insurance Companies, Proposal for a Law on the Insurance of Deposits, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement; and - Joint Principle Search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks. I ask MP Mark Djurisic if he wants a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21399	Dear President, fellow MPs, I wanted to help us all respect the Rules of Procedure. Today we received a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to declare seven laws, proposals and amendments to several laws and three new laws. The five laws the government sent us got yesterday morning, and they, in order for the citizens to see, look like this, there are so many papers. Five laws, one day for MPs to get acquainted with the content of three wholes, a full law and two amendments and additions to the law. All of these laws that we are to discuss today under the proposal of the promoter should start to apply from 1 April 2015. I cannot understand the need of the government to avoid MPs having enough time to get acquainted with the content of this law. How do you expect us to conduct a quality debate, when we had one day to study all these laws, or do you think we should trust the government's word that these are the best possible proposals? I remind you that the two amendments and additions to the laws that the government has submitted today, the laws proposed by this government six months or two years ago, are also considered to be perfect and best, and now come with changes. Why didn't you remember that it should change, but today you're coming up with these changes in this way that we couldn't get to know the content? The other two laws, i.e. amendments and amendments to the laws, are the laws proposed by the NBS. They entered the congregation procedure 10 days ago and are very extensive. They're introducing a lot of new institutes. I think it was also necessary to separate the discussion, because I don't see how the draft laws proposed by the Government, which came to the National Assembly yesterday and the bill and the additions proposed by the NBS, which came to the Assembly 10 days ago. In no way are they in accordance with Article 157 conditioned solutions under the proposed laws and there is no basis for a united debate on all seven laws. I would like to help us to respect this Rules of Procedure until the adoption of a new one, if this one is already wrong, and therefore I propose a united debate on the five laws proposed by the Government, as one item of the agenda, and on the two laws proposed by the NBS, as the second item of the agenda. I believe you will adopt this proposal, because it is the only one possible in our Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21400	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal of MP Mark Djurisic. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – one, with abstention – there is no, 136 of the 151 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance, Željko Sertić, Minister of Industry, Dr Kori Udovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr Jorgovanka Tabaković, Governor of NBS, Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zlatko Milikić, Assistant Minister of Finance, Djordje Jevtic, Director of the Directorate for Supervisory of Financial Institutions, Bojan Terzić, Director General of the Directorate for Legal Affairs in the NBS, Dejan Devic, Deputy Director General of the Directorate for Legal Affairs in the NBS, Milena Kovačević, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Inga Šuput Đurić, senior adviser to the Nationality of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on the proposals of the law at issue. of the 1-7 agenda, I remind you that the total debate time for the parliamentary groups is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Ministrys, Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Bank Excess and Liquidation of Banks and Insurance Companies, Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Public Procurement, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21401	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I advertise Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Generally known thing is it's Friday. Thank you, colleagues from the SNS. You have finally admitted the general known thing, calendar and Julianski and Gregorian, but I am advertising the Rules of Procedure because it is said in this article that meetings of the National Assembly are normally held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays. Please, another round of applause because today is neither Tuesday nor Wednesday nor Thursday. What's this all about, and why did I advertise the Rules of Procedure? Because sessions are almost normally not held on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Why not hold sessions, you, of course, president, well know, because it is possible to ask parliamentary questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays. That is why you avoid holding sessions on Tuesdays and Thursdays. We had a session this week on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Not only did you avoid parliamentary issues on Tuesdays and Thursdays, but you avoided, the seventh month in a row, and the government issues held on the last Thursday of the month. In this way, the President of the National Assembly, you are jeopardizing our right and the possibility to ask the Government, and I am rightly advertising the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21402	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21403	Let me finish, because the applause lasted about ten seconds. ... Last chance to ask the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21404	You first said Article 87, it says - by the book. As a lawyer, you know that there is a 2nd position in article 87, and I'm going to take this as your wish to point out something else. As a rule, it means - second. You know that we also have interpretations in legal science, but there is an attitude 2 where it is said that the president of the National Assembly can decide to hold a session for other days and to be done after 1800 hours. I hope we share the same satisfaction that we do almost every day, often on weekends, and that you don't mind, although you are in opposition, that this Parliament works all the time. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: But sometimes we work on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Yes, of course we do Tuesdays and Thursdays. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: No, we do not work on Tuesdays and Thursdays. We'll look at how many sessions we had and when we worked. I thank you for sharing the pleasure of working with me almost every day. As for, as you say, avoiding sessions where government issues are being asked, that also doesn't stand. I would ask you then to discuss longer, so that I do not end the session on Wednesday at half past four, but rather try to keep the session going then, in order to allow business provisions. So there are no special sessions, you know that too, not to deceive the public, but to have a session to meet the requirements for holding part of the session by asking questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month. I'll try to make it right and remind you of when such situations come that as long as you speak, we don't get to Thursday. I can't artificially since Wednesday of half four to sit here for 24 hours. Last time on Wednesday, the Assembly Hall was almost empty, we were three or four. Not all of them are members of the board. So you could have stayed here in the O.R. and talked for 24 hours. So, I don't think the chairman has any role in breaking the Rules of Procedure, because I sat here and held a session while it could. At half past four, none of you were interested in talking, and we switched to voting. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Mrs Tabakovic, the Honorable Ministers of Vujovic and the Honored Guests of the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated 283 and 284. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, MP Zoran Zivkovic regularly applied for a discussion on seven points of the agenda at today's session, but MP Zoran Zivkovic, I think, contrary to good democratic practice, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law on the National Assembly and the Constitution of our Republic, was prevented from participating today in the debate over these seven draft laws. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, I would just like to remind you that this good practice is recorded in a document called the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. In the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, honourable Presidents, for whom I hope you and I will run one day to be MPs there, in Article 167, writes - the MP may appeal to the president, or the president within two weeks of the notification of the sanctions given by the President, or the chairman. The appeal, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has resulted in a suspension of the sanctions applied. So, in Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament are said to be sufficient for the MP here to lodge a complaint with the president and then it will be respected and the application of the sanctions will be suspended, and it is not enough for us in our Assembly that MP Zoran Zivkovic has told the Constitutional Court, gentlemen. Dear President, please allow Mr. Zivkovic to participate in today's debate in our Assembly, and all the next good practice, Rules of Procedure, Law and Constitution of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21406	Thank you. You've called in the usual article. In 283 and 284 and I have nothing new to add, the circumstances have not changed at all, so I wouldn't waste our precious time repeating myself. As for the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, I am not in a position to apply the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. When Serbia is an EU member, we will be happy to bring our Rules of Procedure into line with the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I am sorry that you did not quote other provisions, that there are provisions in that same Rules of Procedure respecting all sanctions that may be imposed under that Rules of Procedure, and in relation to the inappropriate behaviour of certain MEPs. So if we are referring to a European document, then we must look at it as a whole, so I think MP Zivkovic would be punished there. I see he took advantage of his right to go to the polls in the Rules of Procedure, and he didn't vote. So, it applies what it wants to apply, and what it won't, it won't. Of course he's right, but he didn't want to use his right. He came in and came out with a smile, which I support. So, I don't know which provision the president could have hurt in this case, since the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament is not applicable to us. Do you want us to vote on members 283 and 284 but that happens every day? No, I don't. ) The word has been made by the People's MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21407	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting under Article 103. - The MP shall have the right orally to indicate an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Chairman, we have been witnessing here for many days the abuse of member 103 by an independent MP who spoke earlier. I think you should have reacted. Now I ask that in the future, since there are indications that this practice will continue, you react before reporting for the word. So I have a full understanding for Mr Pavicevic, for the fact that he misses and misses his colleague Zoran Zivkovic, but I have to ask you and ask you for an answer. Does this mean, given that we expect Zoran Zivkovic to resign once he returns to parliament, if he has any morals and honors, as he has promised, as he owes this Parliament, does this mean that we will have to suffer abuse and advertising of his Rules of Procedure and advocacy that he misses his party colleague by the end of this term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21408	Thank you. It is my duty to give my word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure as soon as the MPs report and I have to fulfil that duty, although I am a great opponent of calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure in this House. If I had the power to change that part of the Rules of Procedure, I would change it. So if you have any initiative in that direction, I'll fill it out right now. I think it is something that is not needed by our parliament, nor does the citizens of Serbia benefit from the violations of the Rules of Procedure. It is my response to Article 103 and to all members, and if any MPs will resign, I cannot influence it. Do you want us to vote on Article 103's injury? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21409	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, I have been advertising Article 113 and Article 109 for a long time, and as for the advertising submitted by our colleague Pavicevic. I agree that the measure of article 113 is a dragon, that it prescribes that the MP who is away from the session cannot attend, but can vote, twenty working days in the National Assembly. That provision is dragonish, but that provision did not bring this set, this assembly of the National Assembly, even past. This Rules of Procedure was adopted, if I recall correctly, that is the last time it was completed five years ago. So, if Honorable counterpart Pavicevic wants to show that freedom of expression is prohibited here, that the Constitution has been violated, that the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure has been injured, then he should say that here in this parliament he is elected to the list of precisely those who brought this, according to him, against the constitutional, anti-European, anti-European parliamentary Rules of Procedure. Thus, one pro-European party certainly did not deserve to be found on its list an MP of such size as Mr Pavicevic. If he wants to get some rest, he needs to look around and look at whose list he's chosen, and the old proverb says: “Who are you with, who are you with, who are you with? “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21410	Thank you. Members 113 and 109, I think we're absolutely implementing. The implementation of the measures is also under the responsibility of the Secretary-General of Parliament and is carried out 100%, so there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I'm giving it to the legislators of the law. The word is Dr. Jorgenka Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21411	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I would first of all like to explain in a single sentence why the proposed agenda is discussed in a united debate. Simply, the reason is that this is a package of mutually conditional laws and the only possible way to talk about these solutions is to talk about them in a united debate and to show you in part what monetary and fiscal policy coordination means in action. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and Amendments and supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is the part I will talk about on behalf of the National Bank of Serbia as a proposing. For the sake of the public, I would like to say that the amendment and addition of the Law on Banks was published on the site on 18 December last year, and the minister will say that the laws in his jurisdiction and which he will speak of have been held public debate for more than 20 days. In front of you, the bill, which represents a key part of the package proposed by the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as part of the reform of the financial sector, to be considered at this session. The main intention we have managed is to improve the legal framework for the restructuring of banks in the Republic of Serbia by preventing the resolution of issues of problematic banks and by expanding the measures and instruments for their restructuring by ensuring that we achieve the basic objectives of restructuring, which is to preserve the stability of the financial system, continuity in performing the critical functions of the bank and protecting depositors, while minimising the costs for taxpayers. The current legal framework to address problems with banks stemmed from the need to mitigate the negative consequences of the global financial crisis and preserve financial stability in our country. However, experience shows that it provided limited opportunities in the selection of restructuring instruments and that it did not allow sufficient flexibility in selecting strategies to solve a troubled bank. For example, the assets and liabilities of the bank in restructuring can be transferred to another bank only after the bank is withdrawn from work permits. Experience in applying the existing legal framework to address issues of troubled banks in the Republic of Serbia has highlighted the need to improve it, given that the problems the Republic of Serbia faces are not unique. A similar need is also recognised at European Union level, and the Recovery and Restructuring Directive of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies was adopted in the first half of 2014. In such conditions, the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank Act has been drawn up, whose comprehensive framework for bank restructuring is focused on preventive action. The role of the body, and this is one of the most important newspapers, which is responsible for restructuring, is taken over by the National Bank of Serbia, while at the same time improving the process of restructuring banks itself, by making available a wider range of restructuring instruments, providing flexibility in the selection of instruments for each specific case and allowing the restructuring process to be implemented also over a bank which has not been withdrawn from work permits, and also providing for concrete mechanisms for protection of shareholders and creditors. The papers adopted by the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank Act can be placed in three areas – preventive action, early intervention and restructuring of the Bank. While in the first two areas the emphasis on the timely response of the bank itself to the deterioration of its financial situation, in the phase of restructuring, the responsibility goes to the National Bank of Serbia, which, in co-operation with the Deposit Insurance Agency, which has been largely responsible for this job so far, and the Ministry of Finance should take measures that will best protect the financial system and ensure that the consequences of bad business are largely borne by the shareholders of the bank, and only then, if necessary, the creditors of the bank and ultimately the taxpayers. We believe that the key papers adopted by this bill can be best seen if you have access to it by the stages that make it. I hope that you will not experience this with an excessively long exposure and a lecture, as some who are not very interested in this topic want to say, but simply by respecting the MPs we want to detail to explain the reasons and instruments contained in this legal solution. At this stage, it means preventive, when the bank does not face problems in its business, we expect it to take concrete steps to better prepare itself to deal with the problems it can face in overcoming these problems. Therefore, each bank is obliged to draw up and regularly update the recovery plan in which it determines what measures it can apply in the event of a significant deterioration in the financial situation, all with a view to restoring sustainable business and an appropriate financial position. Since the recovery plan is a document based on a self-assessment of the bank, it is at the National Bank of Serbia to assess whether the plan is realistic and sustainable, or whether the planned measures could prevent the bank from coming into a state that it cannot continue to operate. If we estimate that this purpose could not be achieved by applying the recovery plan measures, the National Bank of Serbia can order the Bank to amend this plan, but also to make the necessary changes in its business. In case the recovery measures applied by the bank itself are not effective or adequately applied, so its financial situation is beginning to deteriorate rapidly, the National Bank of Serbia is taking so-called. the early intervention measures, to warn the bank to come in such a state that it cannot continue to operate. At this stage, the National Bank of Serbia may, among other things, order the bank to implement one or more measures from the recovery plan, to develop a plan of activities to address identified problems in business or a plan of debt restructuring negotiations with the bank's trustees, and may also resolve the duties of the bank's management body members. If these measures are not enough to repair the financial situation, the National Bank of Serbia can appoint a temporary manager. Although all these mentioned activities and measures are being taken to prevent the bank from being able to continue its business, the National Bank of Serbia must be prepared in a timely manner in case the bank comes in such a state. Therefore, the National Bank of Serbia is obliged to draw up a restructuring plan for each individual bank, which, taking into account all specificities of the bank, provides for the application of appropriate instruments and measures. An important part of the process of drawing up restructuring plans under the National Bank of Serbia's obligations is to assess the possibility of restructuring, identify obstacles to restructuring and establish measures that can be taken to remove these obstacles. It is important to bear in mind that not every bank is equally relevant to the financial system, and that one of the possible scenarios is in the restructuring plan and the opening of the bankruptcy proceedings against the bank. I'm sorry, I'm asking the MPs that I don't act on television as someone who doesn't hear well and speak very loudly. The reason I'm talking pretty loud is the noise in the O.R. When the state of the bank becomes such that it cannot continue to operate, and it is unlikely that any other less invasive measure could, within a reasonable time, remove obstacles to the continued operations of the bank, the National Bank of Serbia will initiate the restructuring process if it finds the restructuring of the bank in the public interest. Taking into account the protection of shareholders and creditors of the bank, we have provided for the obligation to ensure an independent, fair and realistic assessment of the value of the assets and liabilities of the banks before the start of this process. This assessment is conducted by an external auditor on the list of the National Bank of Serbia or another person who is independent of any public authority or institution entrusted with the exercise of public authority, as well as from a bank subject to an assessment or a banking group whose member it is. In this way, the second opinion which is objective and which is a guarantee to shareholders and creditors that its property of obligations will be realistically reflected and demonstrated. In view of the fact that the decision to initiate the restructuring procedure of the NBS is made at a free discretion, it is precisely established in which cases it will be considered that the prescribed conditions are met. In this regard, it will be considered that the bank’s situation is such that it cannot continue to operate if the prescribed reasons have come into effect that the NBS could withdraw its work permit, or the reasons will soon arise, so if the bank is insolvent or insolvent, or it is likely that it will soon be, as well as if the bank has requested extraordinary financial support from the State, unless this support is provided under the conditions laid down in the law. As regards the conditions of fulfillment relating to the public interest, there is an assumption that this condition is met in the case of a systemically significant bank, and if that is not the case, when the NBS estimates that the implementation of the restructuring could properly achieve one or more restructuring objectives, which could not be achieved to the same extent by carrying out a bankruptcy or liquidation procedure over the bank. In this respect, the NBS is obliged to draw up a minimum cost test to determine whether the implementation of the restructuring process would be more comprehensive than the implementation of a bankruptcy or liquidation procedure against the bank, particularly taking into account the costs of paying out secured deposits and granting financial support as well as the restrictions relating to the use of the Deposit Insurance Fund in the restructuring process. The draft minimum cost test of the NBS shall be submitted to the Deposit Insurance Agency for the purpose of delivering its opinion. It is important to bear in mind that they are at a stage where they decide to initiate the restructuring process and when they implement this NBS management procedure clearly defined and the objectives and principles of restructuring. The legislative regulation of these objectives focuses on any restructuring process unambiguously puts the need to achieve as much continuity as possible in carrying out the critical functions of the bank, to avoid a significant negative impact on the financial stability of the system and to protect the budget and other public funds of depositors and investors. The National Bank of Serbia is asked to make sure that it contributes to the achievement of these objectives when making each individual decision in the process. With the requirement that the restructuring burden should, above all, be borne by those who contributed to the financial situation being such that it cannot continue to operate, as one of the principles of the restructuring process, it has been found that the losses were made first by shareholders, and the trustees of the bank, with these persons unable to suffer greater losses than those they would suffer to apply the bankruptcy procedure against the bank. I note that the depositors are particularly protected and fully protected up to the amount of the secured deposit. And especially and completely protected. In order to ensure a balance between the need to implement the restructuring process to protect the public interest and the necessity to limit the rights of shareholders and bank creditors precisely in order to protect that public interest. One of the principles of this procedure is the application of the appropriate measures to protect shareholders and creditors of the bank prescribed by this law. In the restructuring process the NBS will have at its disposal a broader range of instruments and measures to enable it to adapt the restructuring strategy to the circumstances of each individual case which will provide those objectives at minimum cost to the budget and public funds. The necessary flexibility in the implementation of the restructuring process will also provide for the possibility for the NBS to apply in this procedure one or more instruments relating to the transfer of actions, i.e. assets and liabilities, using one of the instruments that will be carried out several times during that procedure. The application of the instruments to sell shares, i.e. assets and liabilities, enables the holder to sell the bank's shares in restructuring or its entire assets and liabilities, or to implement them by making this instrument compulsory in the application of the NBS to take all reasonable measures in order to carry out the transfer on the basis of the sale of shares, i.e. assets and liabilities on market terms, which means to ensure transparency of the sale process, prevent discrimination of potential customers, possible conflict of interest and the like, which is also the mechanism of protection of shareholders and trustees of the bank. The transfer instrument allows for specific purposes that if there are no conditions on the market to carry out the sale of shares, assets or liabilities of the bank in restructuring. The bank's action, i.e. its entire assets and liabilities or part thereof, is transferred to a bank for special purposes whose founder may be the Republic of Serbia. The purpose of this instrument is to maintain its critical functions by taking over the shares, assets or liabilities of the bank and later to sell the transferred shares, i.e. assets and liabilities. Taking into account previous bad experience in the application of this instrument, as in the case of the establishment of a new Agrobank, and in order to warn the situation in which its inadequate use of the bank's restructuring problem would in fact only be transferred to the bank for special purposes, it is explicitly prescribed that the total value of the liabilities transferred to banks for specific purposes cannot exceed the total value of the assets transferred or secured from other sources. In view of its purpose, a bank for special purposes may be based on a specific deadline which, as a rule, cannot be longer than two years. The basic value of the asset rejection instrument is that it is possible to transfer to the Deposit Insurance Agency or another legal person the so-called bad assets of banks into restructuring. The National Bank of Serbia can take over, or apply this instrument in combination with some of the other instruments in some of the following cases. If the market situation is such that the sale of this asset in a bankruptcy process could have a negative impact on the financial market. Where the transfer is necessary to ensure the smooth operation of a bank whose assets or liabilities are transferred or where it is estimated that a transfer is necessary to achieve the biggest possible cash flow or to sell transferred assets at as little cost as possible. It is foreseen that the transfer of assets and liabilities under this instrument can also be made to the Deposit Insurance Agency, since it has the resources and experience needed to carry out these and other similar tasks, so the reasons for the economic and rationality of those who require that these resources be used. It is particularly important to introduce a loss-sharing instrument, as applying this instrument ensures that the bank's main restructuring burden is borne by shareholders, and then unsecured creditors. The National Bank of Serbia will apply this instrument in the following cases: when we want to achieve the recapitalisation of the bank in restructuring, to the extent necessary for the further smooth operation of the bank in accordance with the law and to maintain sufficient confidence in the financial market in that particular bank or for the purpose of conversion into capital, as well as for the purpose of the write-off of the main liabilities or debt instruments to be transferred to the bank of the sticker. The law explicitly lays down the obligations of banks which are not similar to write-offs and conversions under this restructuring instrument, which are, for example, obligations on the basis of secured deposits, obligations which are secured by the law, legal obligations towards employees and the like. In addition to these obligations, the National Bank of Serbia can exceptionally exclude the application of the write-offs and conversions to other bank obligations under the prescribed conditions. The proposed law lays down clear restrictions on the entry into the property rights of shareholders and creditors in order to ensure that, in any particular case, when applying this instrument, the principles of proportionality and equality are respected and that: shareholders and creditors cannot suffer greater losses than they would suffer in a bankruptcy procedure, the hierarchy amongst the creditors is respected by the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation law and companies for insurance and write-off and conversion only when all other possibilities are exhausted. In addition to those restructuring instruments, the write-off and conversion of capital is envisaged. This is one of the measures that the NBS can take, before the restructuring process is launched or before applying any of the restructuring instruments. It is an effective measure that is particularly important if, before the restructuring process is launched, it has a stable effect on the market and is very effective in protecting depositors and budget and other public-fund users. It should be borne in mind that the implementation of the bank's restructuring and the taking of any instrument or measure is carried out with appropriate measures to protect shareholders and creditors of the bank. In addition to the independent assessment mentioned, which is carried out before the restructuring process is launched, the NBS is obliged to ensure that immediately after this procedure has been denied or after the restructuring instruments applied are carried out a special independent assessment of the loss of shareholders, creditors and the Deposit Insurance Fund in the restructuring process and in the bankruptcy procedure. The objective of this independent assessment is to determine whether these persons would have suffered less losses if a bankruptcy procedure against the bank had been initiated on the day of the restructuring and how small these losses would have been. If it is established that the shareholder or trustee of the bank, i.e. the Deposit Insurance Fund in the restructuring process, has suffered greater losses than the losses they would have suffered in the bankruptcy proceedings, these persons shall be entitled to compensate for the difference to the amount of losses they would have suffered in the bankruptcy proceedings. This is one really important newspaper that says that all questions that can be opened later are opened at the right moment before the process begins. The proposed law also regulates specific measures to protect the other contracting parties in the financial contract, concluded with the bank, under which a restructuring procedure was initiated in the event of the application of one of the restructuring instruments envisioning the transfer of assets and liabilities of the bank. Finally, the proposed law introduces additional protection of the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund against the existing regime. If the total losses in the restructuring cannot be borne and covered by the burden of shareholders and depositors, the application of the instruments of distribution of losses and write-offs and conversions of capital shall be provided by the Deposit Insurance Fund, but only in accordance with the clearly prescribed limits. The prerequisite for the use of the Deposit Insurance Fund for this purpose is that the implementation of the restructuring instruments ensures that the depositors of the bank in the restructuring continue to freely dispose of their deposits. In the event that this condition is met, the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund may be used to finance restructuring in the amount of the precisely established law. The additional guarantee of the protection of the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund is an explicit provision that the amount of these funds that can be used to finance restructuring cannot in any event exceed the amount paid from the Fund's funds for the collateralisation of deposits in the event that a bankruptcy or liquidation procedure has been initiated instead of the restructuring procedure, as well as the establishment of an absolute limit of 2.5% of the total amount of the secured deposits. In addition to the changes and additions relating to bank restructuring, the proposed law also amends certain provisions governing the operations of banks and the conduct of controls on these operations, in order to remove certain concerns identified in the application of the legal provisions, to improve individual solutions in order to make bank control operations more efficient and to continue to comply with international practice, good international practice and EU rules. I would highlight those changes which give the National Bank additional powers in relation to monitoring the quality of the security instruments and monitoring the quality of the work of the person performing the assessment of those instruments, as well as the authority to prescribe cases in which the bank is obliged to write off the balance of activity and off-balance sheet breaks of a certain degree of charging. Prior to that, there are significant changes relating to a clearer division of responsibilities between the bank’s management bodies, which will contribute to better quality corporate governance and more efficient management of the bank’s business risks. Finally, I would draw your attention to the fact that further enhanced provisions governing the payment of fines to the bank and members of its management bodies are also made possible by making it possible to achieve the purpose of this punishment more effective and efficient. Given that the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia to join the EU, as well as the fact that the Directive on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment companies, has codified the best practice of European countries in this area, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Banks Act is in line with this directive in a more significant way, given the macroeconomic situation and the existing and regulatory but business environment. We are convinced that the legal framework for resolving issues of problematic banks, which we are introducing by this law, is a major step forward that will improve the access to bank restructuring in the Republic of Serbia, thereby contributing to the stability of the financial system and the protection of depositors and creditors of the bank at the least possible cost for taxpayers. This belief, among other things, is based on the fact that the proposed law is the result of detailed and long-term examinations of all key solutions through the intensive co-operation of the NBS with the Ministry of Finance and the Deposit Insurance Agency, as well as the work on reforming the legal framework for the restructuring of banks in the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the mentioned domestic institutions, the participation of experts and representatives of the International Monetary Fund, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank in a way that we agree on solutions that are best suited to Serbia, not to prescribe other people's solutions or accept the imposed which we are not intending to implement or whose application we are not able to provide. I would keep your attention for just a few more minutes, to tell you what changes are made and the additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia that are conditioned by the amendment to the Bank Act and I would ask for patience. I'll be much shorter than when it comes to the previous law. The main objective of the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is to bring the Law on Payment Services into line with this Parliament and the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks, i.e. to create preconditions for the NBS as an institution entrusted to these laws and to those which we hope to adopt after the debate, to be able to work in accordance with these entrusted powers and in the area of supervision of financial institutions and restructuring of banks and to start doing these powers and functions on a timely basis. We are closer to these laws to the provisions of the EU Treaty and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, and especially to the provisions of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, and given our strategically defined path towards the EU. In that sense, we have made certain steps towards strengthening the role of the NBS and its responsibilities through amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. We have specified the provisions concerning the approval of short-term loans to banks, and regarding the restructuring, which I was talking about, but we have more precisely defined the monetary financing bans applicable to the NBS. I would single out several key newspapers, and the first of them was certainly clearly determined by the NBS's authority to issue and confiscate payment service licenses and the electronic money institutions' permits to issue this money, to monitor the provision of payment services and to issue electronic money, as well as to carry out services to protect the users of the services provided by these financial institutions. Secondly, this law provides for the jurisdiction of the NBS - to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the launch of the bank restructuring process, i.e. the members of the banking group and to carry out those procedures; to decide on the application of the instruments and measures to be taken and to carry out all other tasks arising from this, but in accordance with the Banks Act. The Executive Board of the NBS shall be designated as the authority responsible for the adoption of regulations, other general and individual acts in the area of bank restructuring. In line with the principles contained in EU legal acts and recommendations from international financial institutions, the supervision of financial institutions and transactions related to the restructuring of banks in the NBS is envisaged in a way that ensures separate management of each of these transactions and their organisational separation and to prevent potential conflicts of interest, given the current competences in the process of supervision of the work of financial institutions. So, the largest number of jobs arising from the law that is before you will be conducted by an organisational unit that is also organisational, but also hierarchically separate from the Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, but this administration will be responsible for the evaluation of so-called. recovery plans and other operations related to these plans, as well as to take early intervention measures towards banks, given that that part of the business is part of the supervisory function over banks, and not part of the restructuring function, which is why I want to stress the separation of these two types of competences, one of which we have, and the other we get through this law. In addition, the basis for carrying out this new function is established by prescribing the rights of the NBS to take into account the business books and other documentation of the bank and of the persons associated with it by the property, management or business relations, as well as by regulating the co-operation and exchange of data provided in the performance of the bank restructuring function between the NBS, on the one hand, and by the Deposit Insurance Agency, domestic authorities, financial business supervisory institutions, foreign bodies responsible for the restructuring of financial institutions and supervision in the area of financial operations, as well as other competent bodies on the other hand. The activities of the National Bank relating to the approval of short-term loans to banks are also specified by the fact that crediting banks to provide their regular liquidity needs as one of the monetary policy instruments separates itself from the emergency liquidity support provided exclusively to a insolvency bank which only temporarily faces liquidity problems. What I would particularly like to emphasise is the ban on monetary financing, which, in accordance with EU legal acts, is extended by extending itself to the existing prohibition of public sector lending, which covers the prohibition of the National Bank to allow the Republic of Serbia, the AP or the unit of local self-government, public enterprises or other persons whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units to have control participation, and the granting of guarantees and other forms of security. So, in addition to the loan ban so far and the guarantee business and other forms of security. The following provision, which determines the liability for the damage incurred in the NBS operations, is in line with the European standards and best parallel practice represented in the EU Member States, which require that the Central Bank and its employees are responsible for the damage caused by the treatment, which cannot be classified as a legal standard of good faith conduct. So what is extreme negligence and negligence will certainly be sanctioned, but those damages that can occur at a time of good faith, and yet they happen, must be solved and secured in the way that they do in the countries around them. Finally, since there is a legal gap in the issue of numismatic money in the Republic of Serbia, as certain problems and inconsistencies in the regulation of the issue and distribution of forged money, all problems and inconsistencies are eliminated, and the issue of numismatic money is arranged. I am convinced that the solutions contained in the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia will have a positive impact not only on the organisation and business of the National Bank of Serbia, but will contribute to the more efficient performance of its functions, and thus to the more successful achievement of the prescribed objectives, but also on raising responsibility to one higher level, because we create practice and lay the foundation for some of the next people on these jobs to never leave the problems we have encountered, unsaid and open issues that can be an excuse for problems in the financial sector tomorrow. We begin from ourselves and after two and a half years at the National Bank, I have no right with my associates to transfer the responsibility for the founding situation in the banking sector to bad solutions, but here, as you can see, we treat the tradition of good not only as inherited, it is created by passing such laws, but also by their application and respect. I hope that, in this sense, you will also support these laws and help the Ministry of Finance and the Deposit Insurance Agency, as well as the National Bank, so that each of us can do the most possible in respecting the public interest and maintaining Serbia's stability in our work, in particular financial stability. I thank you for your patience and for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21412	Thank you, Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, governor of the National Bank. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21413	Thank you very much. I'll try to be brief after the governor. You are very detailed about the amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Law on Banks. To return to the opening remarks, why does this package of laws go together? First, a domestic team supported by three international organisations, already mentioned here, six months last year, prepared them together. They are obviously related laws that introduce a new level of financial discipline to control the risks of professionalism, transparency and EU harmonisation. So these laws are designed to comply with the EU's latest resolution directives, i.e. the resolution and restructuring of banks. Therefore, Serbia here is taking steps with the latest standards and goes ahead of its obligations and wants to create a system that will be transparent, responsible, professional, which is most important, which amongst citizens of all depositors, investors, international banks and all other people, who want to work and invest, will create an unequivocal impression that they are working in an orderly financial system that is monitored from the beginning to the end, from registering financial organisations, to monitoring their daily work, to reacting to all possible problems in their work, to taking measures that limit, i.e. the consequences of these problems, and in those most difficult situations which go to one law-ordered resolution of the status of these organisations. Six documents, which are in front of you today from seven, are strictly in that domain and are directly connected. It's easier to answer why they're together than to try to explain so they can be separated. Pay attention to the three laws and three amendments and additions of the law. The three laws are the Deposit Act, the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation and financial institutions, insurance, etc., not to quote the whole name of the law. The amendment of the Ministry Act in one member changes the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance due to the change in role and function of the Deposit Insurance Agency. So the finance ministry has to accept that part on its own. One sentence changes. The three laws, as counterpart Tabakovic explained, are directly linked to changes and additions to the Law on Banks and the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. So it's a single integrated set of amendments to laws and new laws that ensure that Serbia enters other much more quality institutional conditions of functioning of the entire financial sector, so, above all, banks, but also insurance companies and all other financial institutions, which hopefully will be more and more, as it happens in the world parallel to the development of financial systems. A law that is added, which is not directly connected here, one member of the defacto of the Public Procurement Act, which is a member of 86 in which rates change, premiums that domestic bidders have. Three remaining members are transitional provisions that define the application of that law. Let me first explain this law, which is actually linked to the level of total reforms that we are taking, but it is not directly related to these laws, although it is in that domain relating to the provision of financial services, which collects otherwise high interest and any fees that banks charge. So it's about the previous rates of 10.15 and 20% being reduced to 5% of the prime minister. Domestic bidders will, under equal other conditions, continue to have an advantage over foreign bidders, but it decreases to 5%. We have received an EU opinion on this, and they agree and believe that we are going ahead of all other countries that have been on the road to EU accession and that we are implementing these laws earlier. We have come from the point of view of reducing budget costs and reducing the costs of functioning of the public sector, but so we allow everyone else to benefit from it and more efficient business. We believe that 5% of the premiums in the price are parallel to the advantage that domestic companies have because they are on site, which have less transport costs, which the legal system knows, which the regulatory conditions, which people, lawyers and everything else have, and that is more than an advantage that does not burden too much of the budget, i.e. the whole public sector. Imagine if someone offered a table or a chair and on equal terms, the exact same table and chair, he got a 15 or 20% premium. We think 5% is more than enough. If they offer exactly the same products, 5% is more than enough premium and it burdens the budget, but it is acceptable. These changes and additions to the Public Procurement Act have sparked a heated debate at the government. Many who consider it to be a larger premium, or higher premium for domestic bidders, have reported, but have forgotten that it has its positive and negative side. On the one hand, we want to support our domestic bidders, and on the other hand, we don't want to allow cost escalation. As part of our budget expenditure control strategy and through the reduction of the budget deficit and debt of Serbia, we have proposed a solution that we think is a good compromise and a step in the right direction. As far as these three laws we propose and the associated Ministry Act are concerned, I would just like to highlight the following. With the Deposit Insurance Act, I would like to point out that there has been a long-term deposit insurance with us. What does this law offer at the level of principles and goals? It sets out obligations towards depositors, restricts discretionary decision on these deposits, i.e. deposit insurance funds, promotes public trust and all financial system participants in the deposit insurance system and reduces the cost of settlement of deposits. He creates a basis to provide funds for deposit insurance on a longer term, just as participants. Today we are in a situation where the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Deposit Insurance Fund were emptied to the last dinar. By bankrupting banks, protecting depositors, we later had to intervene and protect depositors to maintain trust in the financial system and by spending all their resources. The state reached out, you had the opportunity to see it, for the funds of international organisations, primarily the World Bank, or the IBRD, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in order to provide the necessary resources, to provide at this level the World Bank's Deposit Insurance Fund with a World Bank loan and a stand-by loan to the European Bank. So it's going to be funds in the reserve and it's only going to be withdrawn if there's a need for it, and hopefully there won't be any need, but they're there. These organisations are asking us to pass laws that will also regulate the issue of deposit insurance and the issue of the work of the Deposit Insurance Agency in accordance with international standards, to establish a transparent basis for alimony of the funds of these agencies in the future, so all banks, all save part of their savings, will focus on filling that fund, which in the future will be independent of the current role of the state and will have, which is very important, unite both laws in this discussion, will have predominantly independent members of the board. So the NBS will have one member on that board. On a proposal from the finance ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia will have another permanent member on the board, and three members will be independent. People who will be both professional and responsible to control the work of the Deposit Insurance Agency. Apart from this, what changes significantly is that the domain of the Deposit Insurance Agency is narrowed on the one hand, and on the other hand deepens, makes it more transparent, more responsible and focused on what is really the role of the Deposit Insurance Agency. The Agency, not only because it has such a board of directors, but it has a completely different law that functions transparently in our system and compliance with the European system. So, according to this law, the Agency should become an optimally corporateized agency and as independent as possible in its work as any government body. It will account for everyone, but will not be in its work dependent on others, it will independently make decisions and consequences of those decisions. What is most important is that it protects both the interest of depositors and the public interest and should be the basis for the stability of the financial system. The old system was to offer nominal deposit protection, up to 50,000 euros were all protected, but the mechanisms that provided it were not well worked out so that participants in the system were not aware that each insurance system had its own costs. Someone has to pay the premiums for someone to be insured. So we realized so-called. the situation of moral gambling, that those who invested had a de facto initiative to invest, not thinking. The savings did not reflect on which bank they would invest up to 50,000 euros since they knew that the Agency, or the state, would fall behind and cover those savings deposits. It's great that it was like that. It's great that we've found the means to cover it all and that no one is damaged by one euro, not one dollar, not one dollar, but we need to know that the costs of such treatment have been quite high. These laws need to create a permanent basis for this to happen in the future within the framework of the system, so we don't have to reach out to budgets where the state isn't the owner. That we do not have to pursue budgetary resources where organisations and financial system institutions can provide it with normal business in line with the institutions that exist in Europe and the world. The third law in front of you is the law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. Here I would rely on the presentation of my colleague Tabaković and say the following – for years we had the Bank's bankruptcy law, which differed from the Company Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank's Bank Bank Bank Bank's Bank Bank Bank's Banking Act, and when we faced problems in 2000 and 2001, what we learned was that, in fact, no bank bankruptcy was done, nor was it completed or was it done in a transparent manner that respects our laws and international laws. After that, there were many difficult situations in which some banks went bankrupt, but we saw that the consequences of these bankruptcy processes were enormous, unpredictable and today we solve some of the problems that were created there. This law combined with the institutions described by Tabakovic at the NBS separate so-called "Tabaković". a wall with a Chinese wall or so on. ‘Firewall’, within the NBS, must provide not only monitoring but also effective action in any situation requiring intervention and possible assistance, i.e. solving the problem. Let me explain in folk language. On the basis of the assessment of all factors, the National Bank gives permission to work for financial institutions, or banks. Follow their work both in books and in the field, but not everything can be escorted must have some specialised body that will deeper, better, more versatilely observe work, see risks and predict risks. Therefore, a special unit is being created within the NBS that can offer an information base and offer a professional basis for that body called the "Firu", Serbian would be called a body to monitor and resolve the situation in financial institutions involving banks, first and foremost everything else. It must be there, based on information available both on market developments and on customer monitoring of these banks and financial institutions, to foresee difficulties and to propose action measures. In addition, there is an entire mechanism that offers the most professional assessment of the minimum cost methods to respond to these situations. So it's neither our goal to suggest recapitalisation lightly nor to easily push these institutions into bankruptcy. The aim is to find a method of early intervention, preventing difficulties, and after that, if some situations cannot be controlled, to propose a realistic assessment of the difficulties of these institutions and the real resources to resolve this, of course, in the part in which this relates to the deposit, i.e. the exposure of these institutions to liabilities, depositors, citizens, ordinary enterprises, etc., there is a mechanism within the National Bank and the mechanism offered by the Deposit Insurance Agency, i.e. the Deposit Insurance Fund. So it's an inseparable continent. In that continent, we've redistributed some functions. The Deposit Insurance Agency removes some of the functions previously placed there, and according to the standards of Europe and our professional opinion must belong to other participants in this system. Therefore, the role of the National Bank is strengthened in providing shelter for this professional institution which will assess this and in that part the Agency loses those functions. In the part where the Agency previously functioned as a "proxie", which is said in English, i.e. as a representative of the Government in banks where the Government had its own property, the function is moved to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. in the government and for that reason, and that's why we're changing the Ministry Act. There is only one sentence in the Ministry Act that is added to the Ministry of Finance because they have been removed from the Deposit Insurance Agency. So it's closely and directly connected. There is no point in considering an amendment to a member of the Ministry Act if you do not first look at what we have changed in the way the Deposit Insurance Agency functioned, in the way the Deposit Insurance Fund functions, the spread of the in power, the jurisdiction, above all, and the roles of enabling the timely assessment of these risks in the NBS, i.e. the roles and responsibilities that commercial banks in the entire system receive on themselves and consciously receive on themselves in order to achieve this in the right way. I don't want to be long. There will be opportunities to respond to discussions and questions to repeat many more things, but I want to tell you that the depth, seriousness and preparedness of the NBS to host a very serious professional preparation of these laws that was done, I repeat, in the tandem, which was done jointly, that it was divided in common phases by the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance and the NBS, that the public debate, the NBS on 18 December of its laws, its part of the law, put these two laws on its website. We officially asked the government on the same day for an opinion on whether a public debate was needed and we received the opinion that it is necessary and we opened a public debate on 26 December which lasted officially until 14 January. From January 14th, these laws with changes and additions made in line with the public debate stand until today's website. Therefore, I understand that fellow MPs expect to get everything in the documents distributed in the hall, but I think they as well as the general public of Serbia have access to our websites and these publications and calls for public debate. Since December 26, therefore, everyone has had full insight into every letter of the proposed laws and the ability to read them and to print them and to discuss them, to publicly engage and to make their proposals before the congregation debates. I think the assembly debate is the last final which is most important, but I don't think we should underestimate the public debate process because they give the opportunity for all Serbian citizens and the entire professional public to monitor and participate. I want to point out the two moments that are very important, I already mentioned them, they are very important to the end. We are making a significant step towards approaching EU standards and directives, not because these are formal obligations, but because the last few years have put in place criteria after the global financial crisis to improve the quality of transparency and accountability throughout the entire system in Europe and the world. We're getting closer to what we have to do in law. Of course, it remains the hardest thing, and it will be the implementation, remains the hardest thing, and it will be that these organizations all find enough expertise, responsibility and ability to apply these members of the law, as it is determined, and that in practice we do not allow us to find difficult situations and ultimately some bankruptcy or bankruptcy suddenly. Sometimes we can't stop banks who misplaced funds from getting into difficulties and suffering the consequences of these difficulties. That's what's going on. People make wrong business decisions, but what we can prevent is that banks are hiding risks that we haven't assessed in time, hiding the risks of exposure that are just waiting for the moment to explode and result in huge losses both for Serbia's budget and after that for all Serbian citizens. Therefore, this is what we want to prevent those risks that marked the previous years, and this is what we want to break the trend that financial organisations can make decisions that make them opportune, but that do not look at all the elements of the risk and thus the whole country, in particular the budget and the entire financial system, put into an uncomfortable position. I expect that the general debate will give us the opportunity to answer any further questions and any problems that may exist here. We have no illusion that anything is ideal in the laws, but we think that our efforts to answer these questions with an integrated set of laws are something that is commendable, especially as our ability to co-operate within the government and between the government and the NBS shows. I think it's a good step and we need to keep it in all the domains where our real responsibilities are intertwined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21414	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21415	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Governor, esteemed ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group will support a set of proposed laws that we have today in front of us for the reason that we believe they will contribute to greater financial stability in Serbia, greater confidence of citizens in the banking system in Serbia and certainly speed up the process of adapting our legislation to the EU's legal assets. In today's discussion, I will put more emphasis on these two laws proposed by the NBS, especially the Banks Act, although it is clear that these two laws are impossible to speak out of the context of all laws, since these laws are interlinked, mutually conditioned, i.e. not to say directed towards the same goal. You won't mind me doing a theoretical and historical review at first, but I believe I'm going to be able to show that he and how he's connected to what we're talking about today is very illustrative in terms of why it's important that we pass these laws today. Today's financial operations are characterized by something called the symmetry of information that most often causes problems such as unfavourable, i.e. the inverse selection that we could best illustrate by the example of banks for various reasons setting very high interest rates that act as destimulating companies that are of quality, and on the other hand they are not destabilising for non-quality enterprises or enterprises that have a problem in debt to other places and enterprises that, as they say, gamble for salvation, or have no other solutions than to reach out to such a type of credit. The other problem associated with symmetric information is so-called symmetric information. the moral gambling the minister spoke of, and most often related to the last haven represented in our case by the NBS and the Government of the RS or the IMF's final instance. The last resort means that some people can make irrational decisions because they know that there is someone who will ultimately pay the price of those decisions, or who will save the banking system if it comes to the problem. The last problem that characterizes the presence of symmetric information is the worst problem that knows to happen at the end of the ballad, as they would say. It's so-called. the phenomenon of the herd, i.e. the case of a type of capital flight, i.e. where most players on the financial market have their eyes largely focused on those who, for them and in their opinion, are the strongest players or those who have the most superior, or superior information, and when one of these players, who have superior information, is considered to have superior information, is rapidly withdrawn from the financial market, very often most of the people on that market, or players on the financial market, withdraw funds. Most often when we talk about crises, we talk about the global economic crisis. She's the freshest and she hit us pretty much, but there's another crisis that's very illustrative, and that's so-called. Asia's 1997 crisis, which arose precisely because of a lack of good regulation in the financial sector and insufficiently good supervisory, but also some hidden weaknesses that were largely reflected in the relationship between short-term and long-term borrowing, but what was the relationship between borrowing in foreign currencies and borrowing in domestic currencies. The crisis once grew into a very serious regional crisis that resulted in a dramatic capital flight from Southeast Asia, to the prospect of a harmless balance of payments in Thailand. To address the problems of the crisis, the governments of those countries were forced to invest huge funds to recapitalise banks. Korea 50 billion dollars, Indonesia 70 billion dollars, Thailand 20 billion dollars. When we look at this example, it seems to me that many of us will notice that there are certain similarities to the situation that we have recently encountered. The greatest burden of the crisis that has taken place in Asia has been felt by citizens. That wasn't paid by those who gambled and who actually were the ones who caused this crisis. Our bad experiences, which we have had in recent years, i.e. mainly in 2012 and 2013, have just been created because of the unfavorable selection of moral gambling, I would say, which in certain situations has grown into criminal behavior, insufficient regulation and insufficiently good supervisory and, of course, the global crisis that was current at that time. To some extent, we were fortunate to have not paid such a serious price as paid by the countries of Southeast Asia, but the price we paid for our economic strength, which was much less than the economic power of a Korean, for example, was also too high and not absolutely acceptable. The reason why we didn't pay, because still well enough was regulated our financial system, because the overall adequateness of the capital of the entire banking system was good enough and the liquidity of the entire banking system was good enough for it to endure, and the intervention of the state helped us not to face that last problem, which is the phenomenon of the herd that would be devastating to our economy at that moment. However, it seems to me that this example from the recent past is in the light of what I was talking about, that it is inevitable to reach out to one serious reform of the financial system and to adopt a regulation that will, in a serious way and in the light of new solutions and new world practices and the EU directive, which have been adopted, several of them in the meantime, and for us, it is important that this one from May 2014, which I will later mention, will practically set up a different way of monitoring, supervisory and reacting when it comes to the financial system. So when we faced problems, that is, a potential serious banking crisis, that is, problems of several non-equitables, not to say completely destroyed banks, we found ourselves in front of a dilemma. We could have let the market regulate that banking crisis or we could have reacted, that is, transferred certain funds and tried to save the entire banking system. Of course, we made a decision the same way that the vast majority of the countries made four years earlier when after the collapse of the Leman Bradrs Investment Bank created a global financial crisis and we practically saved this banking system of ours, that is to say, stopped it from entering a cycle of siciosus that would have probably ended in disaster. The price of the first one I mentioned, which is to leave the market to solve the problems, was probably far higher than the one we paid, and I'm pretty sure the decision we made at that point was good. What is controversial is that the price of someone's ignorance or worse, of someone's criminal activities or of individuals' criminal actions, was not paid by those who were responsible but ultimately paid by citizens, or each of us, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the taxpayers of this country. In October 2012, we passed the Act on the acquisition of assets and liabilities of certain banks that were found in financial problems. That Law ceased to apply to 31. 12. In 2014, which will say that at this point we cannot even apply what this law has given us as opportunities in the event of a crisis. This Law, under the circumstances, has solved the problem of the new Agrobanks, but under the circumstances, because, in order to resolve it, we transferred 250m euros from the Deposit Insurance Agency's account, or the Deposit Insurance Fund, and thus practically incapacitated it for any further normal functioning. What is controversial and problematic in the whole story is that after that, problems arose with the withdrawal of the license of a series of banks -- "Vojvodine Development Banks", "Privredna Banka Belgrade", "Universal Banka". So we have come to a situation that the state of Serbia must constantly save some banks or give guarantees for their rescue. We made an agreement with the IMF that we would no longer give any guarantees, except for those of the project character. In this sense, it may be strange that the only guarantee in the 2015 budget, which is not a project character, is exactly a 200m-euro guarantee for the Deposit Insurance Agency. This is not a coincidence nor a derogation from the rules, but is precisely the result of an agreement that implies a kind of implicit obligation, which is to pass this set of laws as soon as possible, i.e., it is agreed to be by the end of January 2015. That's where the urgency for these laws to be passed as soon as possible. Of course, that doesn't mean that someone forced us to pass these laws. I think these laws are very important and very useful to our country. At the very least, as the minister said, these laws have been working for quite a long time. So they didn't come and work on them didn't start in December of the month we spoke with the IMF. The IMF, to put it that way, under the pretext, has made us speed up the procedure a little bit and maybe a little faster procedure. So, faced with the seriousness of the resolution of the crisis and the scales of the crisis that could have arisen, we decided to, and given that we have decided to lead a responsible fiscal and monetary policy, in a completely different way to put the supervisory of the financial system, and in fact to put more emphasis on the preventive and timely action, or to prevent the crisis, and that when the crisis occurs, we are reacting to it in a way that prevents or minimises the costs of citizens and that the greater burden of the crisis, even if it was particular in one of the banks, is borne by those who need to bear the burden, and these are the shareholders in the first place, and then the creditors of the bank. One team, composed of the Ministry of Finance, the NBS and the Deposit Insurance Agency, in co-ordination with the World Bank, the IMF and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, has actually made this bill before us today. The 2010 legal solutions that remain valid, as long as we don't adopt this, were unable to be honest, to deal with the problems and challenges that troubled banks have faced us. To be honest, the global economic crisis has shown that even more serious and orderly countries than we have had solutions for some new phenomena that we have faced in the last five, six to ten years. That is why the idea in these proposals ahead of us, as I have already said, is that it is more about prevention and timely response, but also about giving a broad spectrum of instruments to competent institutions that they will be able to react in a flexible way in each individual case in a special way. So, that we do not have a very narrow set of measures that we then apply without much thinking, but we have a very large dispersion when measures and instruments are at issue and very high flexibility in their combination, in order to actually achieve the application of these measures and instruments being both more efficient and effective. Based on the recommendations of the Basel Commission for Supervision of Banks and Regulatory of the European Union, the need to create a kind of redistribution of jurisdiction between the Deposit Insurance Agency, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia has been observed, however, is now my interpretation, that the Deposit Insurance Agency has had a little too many responsibilities in relation to its own capacities, and that perhaps too many responsibilities have been in the hands of an institution, which, of course, is never good. It is better for these powers to be shared between several institutions and because we can achieve greater quality of application of these powers, but also because we can achieve greater independence in decision-making. The expected effects of applying the regulation that is in front of us today are, in any case, firstly, to preserve the stability of the sustainability of the financial system. The second is the reduction in bank restructuring prices. The third is the reduction of budget costs, i.e. for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As the ultimate goal of applying all these measures to the medium and long term, it is in fact the creation of a regulated and stable banking system and further growth, I would say, of citizens in the banking sector or in the financial sector. This should enable the collection of funds and, I think, better allocation of funds than it is today and what has been the case in the past, into more productive projects, and this can again ensure that it generates stronger economic growth. By the way, these laws are, I'd say, only part of the NBS activity, but also the Ministry of Finance, which I was pretty much talking about a month ago, when I was talking about the 2015 budget, so I'm not going back to that. So they're just part of the NBS activity that is aimed at improving the business environment and security in the financial sector. In that sense, I'd only give two examples, which are pretty much relying on this discussion of mys today. A few months ago, the NBS made one decision that it has just now, and I would say it's on the same line with what we're talking about today, and it's about a decision to publish data and information on the bank, which practically expands the number of information banks need to make public. One of them is information about the adequateness of capital. In practice, we are making the business of banks more transparent, i.e. bringing this information closer to the citizens, in which we reduce moral gambling in the part of which the finance minister spoke. So it's not the citizens' fault if, with a higher interest rate, they go and invest money in that bank that offered them the highest interest rate. But if we force banks, under the allegations, of course, to give a greater amount of information and if we better inform citizens and if the National Bank of its very important activity, which is just communicating with the public, recommunicating all this with the public, then we increase the responsibility of citizens to eventually invest their resources in banks that are prone to make wrong decisions or are on some wrong path. Not to say that we have all these measures that, as of next week, I hope, when we adopt these laws, the NBS will have at their disposal to react and prevent any bad path of our banking system. Another decision that I would say a few words about is the decision to reduce the rate to the foreign reserve and to change the structure of the foreign reserve in terms of increasing demarcation in dinar amounts, which should speed up especially long-term lending and reduction of interest rates. So, on the one hand, we bring the so-called. We tighten the financial system and create a financial system in which, in practice, players on the financial market are forced to operate in a wise way. On the other hand, as much as possible and wherever possible, we are reducing the restrictive nature of monetary policy, and in this way we are trying to create one balance in creating monetary policy, in order to speed up what is very important to us, which is exactly credit activity. But it's not just important for us that the credit activity is growing, it's important that the credit activity is directed in the right way, i.e. that the location of the capital is adequate, i.e. to focus capital on those activities which are productive and which are profitable, and not on those who are trying to save their companies by borrowing excessively and without any means of security. In the end, I have very little time, but I'm only going to say a few words about the proposed solutions, although you, governor, are really very serious and broadly exposed. Very briefly, I'm really just going to say a few words about those things that have seemed to me from my point of view most important of all that you've said. Of course, I don't dispute the importance of other things. So, what is very important is the transfer of competence from the Deposit Insurance Agency to the National Bank of Serbia for the process of restructuring banks. The other thing that is very important is that it practically improves the co-operation of all competent institutions, i.e. the National Bank of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Deposit Insurance Agency. Through this kind of synergetic joint performance, we can accomplish better effects anyway. The third thing that is very important is what I mentioned, which is the preventive functioning of the National Bank of Serbia. In the first place, I think of the legal obligation to develop a recovery plan for banks, which will be supervised by the National Bank of Serbia, which means that banks make a very serious recovery plan, to predict all possible problematic situations in which they can come and make a recovery plan for each of them, with no more banks making identical or very similar recovery plans, because those in these recovery plans have to install all those elements that characterise them, whether it's a force on the market or it's some other element. So, one very serious recovery plan that they have to make. The second thing that is very important is the extension of the supervisory powers of the National Bank of Serbia, which are reflected in the measures of early interventions. So this time again when we apply the measures we have to apply these measures in some first stages, or when there are first indications that a bank might be able to make a wrong decision. The third thing that is very important is the regulation of mechanisms that allow the bank's capital to absorb losses. So let's not wait for the bank to get into serious trouble. There are still many very important solutions, but since I would absolutely not like my dear colleague Constantine to interrupt me in my discussion, which has already been over 20 minutes, I will once again just repeat that, of course, the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21416	I'm glad I didn't have to interrupt. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Governor, the Government's representatives, I would like to join the evaluation of some of my predecessors regarding the time limit in which we received this bill. I think these seven laws are extremely important. There was a public debate, I agree, but the expert public participates in it, and MPs present their evaluations of this in the National Assembly. I think it says more about the government's relationship to the National Assembly than about anything else, because we don't represent ourselves here, but we represent the citizens who chose us. So, there is no need to put a sign of equality between public debate and debate in the National Assembly, given that we are not discussing any drafts or drafts here, but rather about the final versions of these laws and of such laws we are making amendments and proposals. I think we could have gotten this set of laws sooner, but good. I would also like to welcome the fact that we have representatives of the National Bank with us. I think it's very important, because we rarely see them. If we want reforms to be implemented in our country, in addition to fiscal policy and economic restructuring, I think it is unfairly neglected and monetary policy, which, as we can see, now plays a primary role in the launch of economic development in developed capitalist countries, and I don't think we hear enough about it here, as well as generally about the measures planned by the National Bank. We all know very well what the situation today is in our economy. We're going to have a negative growth this year. We're in an extremely deep recession and it's going on. Mostly here we talk about public debt all the time, and nobody mentions private debt. When the austerity measures apply, my predecessor mentioned the vicious circle, so on. "Circulus Vitiosus", currently in place by our economy, which is that when you reduce public spending, growth also declines, and you are constantly increasing the public debt ratio relative to GDP. It's that vicious circle we're in today. The situation in the financial sector is, in some ways, just the blood flow of the economic situation, because, in short, at the prices at which we produce something, no one wants to buy it. It's the main and basic problem of our economy and I've emphasized it many times. Our financial sector is so-called banking. We don't have capital markets, we don't have any other way for businesses to get to capital. There's no stock exchange, there's a formal, of course, but it works very badly. Only where both citizens and businesses can come into funding for development and investment are unfortunately banks. Today, banks are mostly financing the state and buying deposits from citizens, and this is being reclassified by funding public debt, and it consists of our financial sector. We have eight billion citizens' savings, we have some four billion euros in savings, or deposits, the total assets of the banks are about 24 billion, we have 12 billion euros abroad and about six billion crosborers, so I think the total assets with foreign placements are about 30 billion, and you correct me if I'm wrong. In my view, it is extremely worrying about what is due to the state, because every day we face new problems, that the credits in the economy and the loans raised by the citizens can no longer return. We have four billion irrevocable claims, or NPLs in banks, and that's the basic problem that our economy has fallen into. I am glad that it finally came out with a proposal to establish an institution or a bad bank, or as it will already be called, in which it is possible to shift plasmas that are toxic, as it is said, or uncharging, or at least create that possibility. Whether or not it will be implemented, I don't know, but this is exactly the relationship between the economy and the banks, because today you still have functional companies that are under bankruptcy, bankruptcy is not declared and so on. At present, the status quo is that you have some pre-prepared reorganisation plans, which are practically just for the purpose of prolonging problems, not to get out of this problem, because it all comes down to some new reprogrammes. Most banks in their balance sheets continue to show very strange estimates of collateral, i.e. security. It's exactly something that maintains a system like this. I stress, I'm not sure that all banks have shown reservations in the way they should, just to meet some levels of capital adequacy and to avoid perhaps measures of the National Bank. Basel rules that our country also respects, in the sense that we have to stick to them, are good, but I don't think we can just rewrite some things. These rules exist in systems that are highly developed, in terms of the financial market and the banking market, but we are far behind for the countries where this is applied. The problem is, let's say, you have a situation where customer classifications are mostly obtained by foreign banks' central banks and if you strictly adhere to them, it's rare for you to even in Serbia today to grant credit. As for the restructuring proposed by this law, I think the proposals are good, more powers are given to the National Bank of Serbia and discretionary rights. I repeat, I hope that the concept where bad placements will move out of banks and maybe do some kind of re-privatisation of companies where possible, or make a conversion into capital, or whatever is already planned. We're extremely late with such measures. Since I was elected MP in 2012, I have mentioned to every finance minister such solutions that have long been applied in some other countries, but I do not know why there was no hearing. For a simple reason, it is important that large capital and citizens are equally treated in relation to the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance because at present there was a situation that especially in the failed banks, no one is asking why these placements are not returning, who took those loans and why they are not returning them, and why they are allowed to constantly, through these pre-prepared reorganisation plans, to extend these commitments. On the other hand, we now have a large number of citizens who took loans in Swiss francs and are said that the National Bank cannot interfere with such things and is said to be – the market is what it is, contracts are what they are and the National Bank can't help them, although, I say, speculative business was by the banks at the time, because the banks didn't have sources in the Swiss francs, but they were buying slops, etc., that was business that was profitable for banks. Let me also say a few words about public procurement. I think the proposed solution is not good - to reduce the percentage of which our bidders are placed in front of foreign ones, because in a large number of countries there is the possibility of obtaining export subsidies and stimulating exports by various measures, so that the products that come, or services that come into our country, are often cheaper than they cost on the domestic market. I don't think this 5% difference is enough to cover these kind of dumping prices in products and services, so we won't support those amendments to the law. As for amending the National Bank and Bank Act, we have proposed some amendments. If they are adopted, we will support that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21418	The word has an MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21419	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia are very interested in this topic, as in previous governments, we also pointed out that after 5 October, the best reforms were implemented in the area of fiscal and monetary policy, which also conditioned monetary stability, macroeconomic stability and defence ministry. I think that through which the National Bank of Serbia and Governor Tabakovic continued, all other institutions of the system should move forward and of course we have promised strong reforms in all areas of social life in the past elections, taking part in the SNS list. For what? Because the banks were, not to return to some distant past, at the time of the Kingdom of Serbia, the dinar had a gold base, and in one time it was worth two dollars. We fought for six years, from 1912 to 1918. Inflation was 38% and it was a serious state. In this part and the measures that you are now taking and what is very commendable, in collaboration with global financial institutions, above all the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the IMF, you have taken measures that you may not have had at this time, to say, under quotes, to take, but in any case, they are primarily in the interest of the banks, but more than that in the interests of all the citizens of the depositors and in the interest of potential investors and the stability of a very serious and significant system. I say, without any return to the past, we haven't had that kind of behavior since 16, 17 or 18 years ago. I was expecting and monitoring whether anyone would mention our experiences from the recent past. We had an organized, bandit state that allowed criminals to start banks. The state didn't control the business of these banks, the citizens were sick, and criminals didn't get the fine they deserved. Let's just mention banks - Dafina, Jadj, etc. How much of the state has gone up in its bandit activity has shown, for example, one contribution from the second diary, in which then the senior SPS official and director of television enabled Mrs Milanović Dafini to display safes filled with money, currency, gold, etc. And the state was insinuating that the fraud she was organizing was a stability and convinced the citizens that there was no need to worry about their monetary roles. The epilogue of such behaviour of the state we all know. On the other hand, the example is that I don't get out of the topic much, during the "Sabbe" action, we have, as far as the economy is concerned, contained the gray economy. It has been shown that when the state wants to intervene and seriously twist its sleeves, it can be done within a very short period. That is why I want first to commend the measures taken by these legal solutions. At the same time, I think it is the duty of all government representatives, all politicians and all responsible people to, since there are still a lot of negative signs in our public when mentioned above by the IMF, we also have a party who is now part of the ruling coalition that boasted that their president had said to the IMF "no" two years ago, so he called on the countries that did this, and we see, I think it is fair to admit that without co-operation with the IMF in world financial organisations, without the application of the EU Directive, we would not have carried out more serious procedures and positive reforms in this area either. I think that this should have a positive impact on the public opinion which is largely addressed to some countries that cannot, in their own seriousness and structure and institutions, mate EU countries, and we all know that our ultimate goal is to be part of the family of European peoples. What happened to the banks after October 5th, the state banks? Mostly, the bankruptcy of these banks isn't over yet. Absolutely at the time, the state did not act the way it is now, nor was there preventive action, nor was there a warning measure, nor was there what the current law offers, which is in the process of restructureing the adjustment of the measures to each particular case. Today in public, even in the professional public, there are contradictions as to whether some banks are in order to open up a space for the functioning and market of foreign banks simply liquidated, or taken into bankruptcy without even having the conditions. The other thing to say is that foreign banks, in fact, are not foreign banks, that these are banks only with foreign capital, that they are domestic legal entities that operate under the laws of this country, and yet after October 5th, we have something that reminds us to some extent of what happened in the '90s. We have that the collapse of banks occurs where there is interference of the state, or politics. No private-capital bank, with foreign capital, went into bankruptcy or liquidation, or was granted a work permit. That fate was experienced by banks saying, where politics had its own interest, where it set its people with, I think, a systematic intention to rob these banks and deliberately push themselves into liquidation or bankruptcy. What's the ultimate measure? Who pays those banks' obligations? They pay all citizens of Serbia from public funds, especially after the adoption of the Law on which we have provided deposits of all natural persons, deposited money in banks at an amount of 50,000 euros, which is the measure we fully support. What is the basis why all these laws that are really intertwined with each other are so intertwined that they can't even talk about one law without everyone else being mentioned? Because the state realised that it could not only bear the consequences of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, but that, first and foremost, before the bank comes into crisis, it should prescribe the bank's obligation to bring its programme in the event of a crisis. It's so-called. This preventive action. Then, what if in the phases of early intervention, if the bank goes into crisis, special units of the National Bank of Serbia are obliged to prescribe measures and monitor the implementation of measures to bring about the recovery of the bank. And, phase three, the restructuring phase in which the state acts in a similar way with the aim of healing the patient. Even if that doesn't happen, I think the provisions prescribed for bank bankruptcy are much better than any previous provisions. What's also good, is that most of the boards of the Deposit Insurance Agency will now have people who are not, say party or policy, but because they are experts. Then, it is a good thing that liability is shared between the Deposit Insurance Agency and all other bodies in the control of financial organisations, in particular banks, and that this constraint of the Deposit Insurance Agency is further deepened. Minister Vujovic said the savings had not paid much attention so far to which the bank deposited its funds, which is absolutely true, especially after those changes and the additions from a year ago when the state took the obligation to account for the deposited funds of 50,000 euros. But I think that already citizens with these experiences that they have with both Vojvodina Development Bank and Metals Bank and Agrobank, and with the new Agrobank and all the other banks, who acted as they did, can already assess what a bank that provides for a greater degree of stability, the investment of their deposits compared to other banks. Also, a great delusion that I think needs to be broken, often in our public from ordinary citizens, and they ask us people's followers, they ask us – so why are domestic banks liquidated, despite the fact that there are still banks on our domestic capital market, why do these foreigners not give us more favourable loans than such large interest rates? My answer is that which I think is true, that it is simply our economic and economic situation such that the risks are increased that this justice is at interest rates, that at the same time, and under the quotes of the "patriotic bank" with which the majority domestic capital or exclusive is offered also the same interest rates. These are simply business conditions, and I think we should break that kind of public delusion that exists with our citizens. What is also good about the set of these measures is that we have passed the Law on Payment Services, that of course all organisations dealing with electronic payment are also required to control and the Law on the National Bank prescribes and the conditions under which work permits are issued, the licenses are taken away, how control is carried out, and there are solutions are also good as solutions, as regards banks. So there is one flexibility of softness, understanding of business, and there is no such rigidity. It's simply impossible for anyone, whether it's the governor of the NBS, or the Executive Board of the NBS, to simply in control of a simple act before the time, first of all to the banks, to withdraw permission to work. I therefore say that this type of preventive action, this type of flexibility, is indeed something that may be the greatest quality of this set of laws and this seriousness of the state, that since banks have large financial capital, that there is a large investment capital, that these are large roles of companies, that these are huge roles of citizens, that the state must, of course, be interested in how business is done and what is done with the funds managed by banks, which are largely not the funds of these banks, but are the assets of citizens or legal persons. It's also an excellent message sent to all current and future investors, because serious people when they invest in a country, they primarily look at this kind of stability that we talked about today, and it's something that's perfectly natural. Until the state establishes a system like this, of course, where the system is unregulated we attract some other types of investors who want to do business, first of all on the edge of the law or semi-crime, and that experience has been our country's recent past. Because of this, the SP – The Democratic Party of Serbia really, as with the Insurance Act, you were almost Mrs Tabakovic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, they really want to show one great satisfaction that the NBS with the Ministry of Finance has come to these problems in a truly professional and life-saving way. I think besides the fact that the benefits of this will be the banking system, and the NBS, and the Ministry of Finance, and that there will be significant savings from public funds, I think the biggest benefit of this will be investors and all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21420	The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21421	Madam Governor, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. I will explain to you why the JS Parliamentary Group will support this set of six laws and I can say, perhaps the only one who did not fit into today's topic, but certainly very important to pass the law on public procurement, so I will first start with it in order to keep the time devoted to the set of laws. In this law we can see that there have been these numerical amounts in terms of the weightings that are coming down now, they decrease from 10 to 5% and the percentages that come down from 15 to five. I say why the JS Group supports this law. Because Mr. Dragan Markovic, president of the JS parliamentary group, has repeatedly outlined what the shortcomings of public procurement laws are. What I see today, this change that we have today, I don't see as a big flaw for a simple reason because our producers and suppliers competing in tenders with colleagues from the same branch abroad, was never a problem, but the possibility of even getting in line and being able to participate in public procurement. So this moment is something that I think is affecting certainly 1.5 billion savings, how much you planned to change this law and save, and since we've gone deep into reforms, this is not even a minor figure, and above all, we support this law. Other laws, or a set of laws, I would disagree with my colleagues if they weren't supposed to go together, they simply have to be brought together because they're mutually connected and lean on each other. As the first in one of our agendas, it was also the law to supplement the Ministry Act, as the crown of all these laws. It's a law that, first of all, complies with the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, and then everything else happens on a chain and happens. This supplement prescribed new tasks of the state administration carried out by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, participation in the management of banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, as well as the organisation and implementation of actions, sell shares to the same. What's important is that in one time, let me say the world's economic crisis that no one can say for sure whether it's still going on or gone, it's certainly the biggest blow behind us. Many banks failed at the moment, and the laws we are discussing today and the mechanisms they had were successful enough to preserve citizens' confidence in Serbia's financial system. I'm just taking the opportunity to ask maybe one question from the minister, in fact, I apologize to the governor- whether the IMF came to us through aid with $200 million, or if it was a loan so we could conclude a stand-by arrangement, i.e. to even get one deadline in which we should have passed all these laws. Was it a loan or was it their help to our monetary system? The next law is the law on deposit insurance, and this law regulates the mandatory insurance of deposits of natural persons, entrepreneurs, micromale mediums in banks in order to protect the deposits of those same persons. To take the deadline or obligation to adopt this law by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development precisely because of this moment that I just asked as a question is the end of 2014, and now a new deadline, and that is the end of January 2015, and evidence that we need to do this, first of all, not in a short time, I would disagree. At this time when we bring it, it is, again, that moment that we have entered into reforms and that we have before us the obligations and deadlines that we must respect to continue on this path of reform. What is most important for Serbian citizens is the moment that when it comes to the insurance of natural persons' deposits up to 50,000 euros, nothing of course has changed. I can also praise the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance once again because at difficult times of the economic crisis, they managed to protect their citizens, and as the finance minister said a little before and said, to preserve the trust of all these citizens and that this little savings might be a lot to someone, perhaps a little, in the time in which we live, 50,000 is a serious sum. We simply give additional security to people to continue to trust in the National Bank of Serbia, to continue to trust in this state, the finance ministry. By voting this law, I repeat, we get efficiency, better insurance, trust of these same depositors through some mechanisms that have not been available so far. As for the bankruptcy law, the liquidation of banks and insurance companies, this law is again as all of them have been conditioned, its change has been initiated by the world's economic crisis, in which financial institutions and banking sectors are much bigger and more powerful systems and countries, as counterpart Bauer said just before and said, all of them caused certain difficulties, but each one in his own way struggled with this crisis and I say once again, I can praise the way in which with much more modest resources and the Republic of Serbia, i.e., I can commend myself with much more modest. our National Bank of Serbia fought that problem. I repeat, what connects all these laws is precisely this moment of efficiency and stability and sustainability of the functional system of our banking system. One of the more important effects for bringing investors into Serbia is, of course, the system we're talking about, the financial system. He must give security to every investor who comes to Serbia and therefore we need to be aware of why this is done, at what speed it is done, and what security all these investors are making. As always, I repeat that the prime minister is not the only one who needs to deal with bringing investors, that not only should ministers do so, that all those in office of the executive authority should do so, I mean the mayors, and the presidents of the municipalities. One example of how this should be done is the mayor of Jagodina, president of our parliamentary group, Mr Dragan Markovic Palma. These days we've had, you'll let me just take a little bit off the subject, Mr. Chairman, the latest research that showed and showed the popularity of people who deal with politics in Serbia. In the first place of popularity is Mr. Alexander Vucic, behind him is Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma. This is once again proof that the results in this country are recognized and that we certainly need to support what you are doing today, because no one is doing it because of some personal promotion, as we have a chance to see certain colleagues in the hall doing. This is about the well-being of all Serbian citizens and above all, this is what you prove to be serious and responsible for the affairs you conduct. The deposit insurance agency law is certainly a law that is not less important in this set than any previous law, and why, I am going back to the fact that the situation we went through, which is that because of the part of the economic crisis, and partly because of some irresponsible business policy of certain banks, we had a situation that some banks had lost their license and had been deprived of their work permits. Such banks were the Agricultural Bank, Agrobanka, Nova Agrobanka, the Vojvodine Development Bank, the Business Bank of Belgrade and the Universal Bank. Just if there wasn't one of these systems that managed to preserve the depositors and secure the safety of their deposits in these same banks, there would have been one, I can say freely, a technical disturbance in the financial sense of the market. The state has, I repeat, stood behind its depositors, succeeded both the agency and all the institutions that had a direct link to the preservation of the system to do their job the best possible way. Along with these laws, we today have an amendment to the NBS Act, and an amendment to the Bank Act. Again, we come to the fact that this is all caused by this whole thing. This gives one greater authority to the NBS which is perfectly normal that, above all, it can deal individually with the case of each bank that the situation can react, that there simply is not one system way in which it reacts, but rather with what problems the banks face individually. By voting this law, the NBS will, above all, dispose of such instruments as the body responsible for restructuring that enables this individual approach. Once again, the JS Parliamentary Group will support in the voting day a set of these laws I've been talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21422	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21423	Just one brief explanation. I mentioned the World Bank loan, or from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has already been used. So it was 145.3m euros in the euro equivalent. That was for filling the Deposit Insurance Fund, of which 110 million have already been withdrawn. It was not a condition for the use of loans to pass these laws but also for the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which gave an additional 200 million but as spare funds that will not be withdrawn unless necessary. Therefore, we hope that this will never be necessary. They stand there in the reserve and one and the other credits have asked for better regulation of a system that will make it more stable, the entire financial system will be more stable and that the likelihood of withdrawal, or the use of the Deposit Insurance Fund, is reduced to normal commercial risks, and not to these extraordinary risks that we had in previous years. You've already mentioned banks that have reached out to these funds. Therefore, the fund is filled with these funds. The additional funds available for these differences between 110m and 145m euros and the entire 200m euros of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are available for God's sake, as our people say, and I say we are committed within these negotiations to advance the system. This is the IBRD condition of the loan's effectiveness, and with the World Bank it was agreed to be an integral part of the improvement of the institutional framework. In addition, as part of a broader agreement as a government programme, part of the government's programme, we have committed to putting risks under control by the end of January, we have said, we have adopted this set of laws that have been working since half last year, so that we can create better conditions for functioning, put risks under control, we have better preconditions to solve other problems that involve these loans that are not funded and everything else. It's one of the structural measures we set ourselves as a goal, and the Fund has supported it, and now it will be reflected in the letter, it's called the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, which will be signed, I think, somewhere in the middle of next week. So, within the time limit, to be handed over with a set of documents for the Council of Directors of the International Monetary Fund, the International Monetary Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21424	The word is from Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21425	Not only because you felt that I should answer you, but I would normally add that there was no condition for the International Monetary Fund, no money, no help at all, no condition for talking about these laws that life has imposed as a necessary need to change the regulation due to the detection of overlapping, gaps and inefficient, in fact, protection of shareholders, creditors, depositors and citizens in the event of taking over the excessive risk of banks and the inability of regulators, which is the National Bank to involve it. What is valuable help and news in the Republic of Serbia today is that the assistance of the International Monetary Fund is presented by technical and expert assistance in the making up of these laws, and for the first time in the work of these jobs without any intermediaries, sound, noisy, agencies, law offices, etc., but in the full contribution of the people sitting here from the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank and those who do not sit here, people who receive salaries at the Agency, the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, lawyers are young, creative and those with more experience, without any additional costs. Intermediaries who, in many cases, are not well-managed and head of the building tomorrow, when they are no longer in good communication with people by state authorities and public institutions, appear as defenders of the other interest, the other side, which, by extracting and one of these types of experts, is actually making the country a major and serious problem and damage. So you have before you a legal regulation that people who can respond to any position and member of the law on reasons and effects. And what is most important to me, and most precious to me, is that it means a lot to all of you that these laws are brought into co-operation, direct co-operation between state institutions, the National Bank, the Ministry, the agencies and all responsible and invited, guaranteeing not only the minimum costs and the greatest responsibility, but also the best and most maximum effectiveness in the application of these legal projects in which, to say only the fellow who mentioned discretion, that the National Bank has discretionary rights, but also the very precisely prescribed procedure of applying certain instruments and measures for restructuring of banks that can and western problems. So discretionary law cannot be identified or evened as arbitration or any arbitraryness in taking certain measures. It is an approach with which we are starting on these laws and will certainly continue in the work of other bodies within the state of Serbia. Thank you to the MPs for pointing out this as one of the most important results of these laws that are before us today, which is that we are all at the same job, so thank you for the opportunity to highlight this as one important result.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21426	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21427	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Governor, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is today before us seven laws, almost to say that those who have made the internal arrangements of the National Assembly did not foresee such opportunities, so we do not have enough room to put all these laws on our benches. Of course, counterpart Djurisic said the laws are from different areas. Earlier, Minister Vujovic said that the Public Procurement Act had almost nothing to do with these other laws, and it is not clear why you brought these laws together. Why, Governor, why is the Minister back in emergency proceedings? Why are you again delivering this set of laws to the MPs, regulations by emergency procedure so that we can't even read them properly and help them properly, if they can be fixed at all? Why the urgency when all these laws enter into force on 1 April, except for two, which enter into force on 1 July. Whether or not you chose to enter into force on April 1st of your laws, whose realisation corresponds to that law, at least as it has been. It is good that these laws will be for the first time after I do not know what time they are published, that is to say, on the eighth day following the publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. I hope there won't be any problem with printing this "Official Messenger" and that it will work properly. Why are these laws bad for Serbian citizens? It's a key thing. In addition to the fact that they have come after an emergency procedure, it is my duty to say why these laws are bad for Serbian citizens, as they have all been, as is the standard for Serbian citizens. They will allow problems and crises to be deepened in our country. I'll set an example for the first of them or one of them, just mentioning the Public Procurement Act. We expected when we received the Public Procurement Act that there would be key things in it that would solve the problems that arise in public procurement. What are those problems? It is a stalemate in public procurement, so it is not possible to obtain appliances that are essential to the ill in health institutions. It's impossible to get medication in time. It's impossible any infrastructure project, few of them, but almost none of them start before October of the month. Here, I'm a witness, in Novi Sad, and everyone who lives in Novi Sad can see what the city looks like right now. I passed Social Services yesterday. You, Madam Governor, know where Social Security is, there are streets unmarked, unmarked. Works started in October or November, unfinished, precisely because the Public Procurement Act is not working. It does not work because there is a bottleneck in the Commission for Public Procurement, because a large number of complaints coming in cannot be processed and none of those savings from a billion euros per public procurement. Where's the money? Why did you cut your salary to employees, pensioners, when those savings were made? No, you're saying now that this bill will save a billion and a half dinars. So, with a billion and a half euros, you've come to a billion and a half dinars. Here's a picture of why this law is harmful to the public and why it should have been changed in a different sense. So, it's not just bad what it says and it's going to be damaged by domestic companies for no reason, because it wasn't necessary for that law to change and for about five or six months we have the possibility of respecting the current law. For example, in Kruševec, severe patients with problems with blood clotting have to buy medicines, such as “Sinkum 4” in private pharmacies because the system of public procurement does not work. There are no drugs in Nis, there are deficit drugs, and there are sanitary materials at the Clinical Center, because the Public Procurement Act does not work. In Novi Sad, patients cannot get “PCR tests” that are important for the determination of hepatitis C because they do not function in public procurement, etc. They don't work radiation machines. We have a problem now, here we are reading, that they complained and the librarians can't get books because public procurement makes it impossible to purchase, so if some book is important to obtain, it can be obtained in some united public procurement when it's no longer interesting. However, in addition to this Law on Public Procurement, it is very interesting, and when we received the Ministry Act, we were truly pleased. We thought that this law in the ministries would make significant changes and that it would sort of derail the work of this government that is who it is. Her assessment is a unit or if she has a lower grade than a unit, zero. In fact, let's be honest, we didn't expect you to be in place of the Ministry Act, that the Prime Minister would propose a change of ministers, a change of incompetent ministries, because there is no ministry in which there is any progress. To be honest, I personally think it's even the team's composition. Usually when things aren't working, and it hasn't worked in three years, then the selector changes, and the selector knows who it is. It's Alexander Wolf. It would be more normal if, instead of this Ministry Act, the issue of change of ministers or change of selectors had come. Of course, Mrs. Tabakovic, you wouldn't stay in that position in that selection either, because we believe that the situation in the area that you are editing and which you are dealing with is catastrophic. Now I'm moving on to these other laws. We expected here today to talk about what measures you've taken to deliver to the MPs in order to resolve the issue of the sudden leap of the Swiss franc, so that 20,000 families in charge of the Swiss francs, most often in order to solve housing needs, get the possibility, like in other countries, not to be affected by those tsunamis from Switzerland, so that they could solve this issue and that they could continue their normal lives, because it's not just the financial crisis of those families, it's the difficult situation in those families, because we had an example of a day of a citizen who came to us. He was said to have raised the war for his loan by 100 euros and to have one full salary and half his marriage mate's salary paid for the loan that, although paying him every month, is increasing. We expected you to give a solution, Mrs Tabakovic, and for all those who have loans in euros. Basically, we expected you to come to us today and present measures to stabilise the dinars. What's going on with the dinar? As you commend him, the euro flies into the sky. We expected in this sense that you would present measures that would protect citizens, not measures that concern the issuance of forged money. You presented it today and in your very long-term exposé and that you arranged the issue of issuing coins. Now the National Bank is not only printing, or cooking money, the National Bank is issuing money, and it decides on which money will be issued, which characters will be found in that coin together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Mrs Tabakovic, it would be very interesting if you could give us an answer to the question why didn't you, under the National Bank Act, provide for better protection of bank clients? She's almost gone now and she doesn't exist. Why didn't you predict, instead of making money with characters known and unknown, the protection role of the NBS on citizens affected by the unpredictable measures that occur on the international financial market? You also had the opportunity under the old law to do something, so it was said that the National Bank was carrying out the protection of the rights and interests of the users of the services provided by banks, financial lease providers, insurance companies and voluntary financial funds management companies in accordance with the law. The same provision in Article 4 paragraph 11 exists now. We have put forward a proposal to supplement the bill with one provision, which provides that the National Bank has the authority to react in such crisis situations, because Serbian citizens have not been spared the blame, as they are not guilty of floods either, because there has been a disturbance in the financial market. It's about a higher force. Mrs. Tabakovic, we have a number of questions for you. In 2014, the National Bank was dealing with a loss. How's that? How did you lose the NBS? We have a very important question to ask you – how much is your salary and is it true that you receive 586,000 dinars as a salary for the governor of the National Bank of Serbia and is it true that these days you have opened a public tender for the purchase of footholds for your employees, while citizens are barely surviving, among other things, because of the fact that the course of the dinar, or the course of the euro is flying to heaven? It's not just about getting those holders. You've also had tenders for sports courts, tennis courts, golf courses, bowling alleys. You've been making tenders that involved other things, treatment services, gynecologists, etc. Mrs. Tabakovic, we have no objection that employees at the National Bank have health care, but that healthcare, Mrs. Tabakovic, should not be paid by citizens of Serbia, because, Mrs. Tabakovic, your employees have twice the salary of average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, if not double the earnings and the public sector. Why, Mrs. Tabakovic, your workers would have paid tennis court services, even though you have your sports courts, why would your workers have the right to free treatment, free examinations, while other Serbian citizens do not even have the opportunity to obtain a cure... For nothing, the president cannot protect you. It's simply about the truth you have to answer. So, instead of proposing measures that would increase the control function of the NBS and protect citizens from the monopoly of banks, you have foreseen some of the measures that essentially determine this monopoly, but essentially you have placed the National Bank in the role of the one who makes regulations, enforces regulations and controls himself and controls others under these laws. Not only that, there are several laws that concern, let's say, the Deposit Insurance Act, you said, you took away practical powers relating to that agency, the Deposit Insurance Agency, that this will enable simpler jobs. It is said to simplify the tasks of the Deposit Insurance Agency. They're simplified by you taking away their powers and you've given these powers to Mr. Vujovic to his Ministry of Finance, right? And now the Ministry of Finance will have all its troubles and pains. (Dusan Vujovic, from the scene: I will not listen to this. ) Please, Mr. Vujovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21428	Minister, please, you have no right to cast an MP. (Dusan Vujovic, from the scene: I will not listen to this. Get me out of the O.R. Why would I kick you out of the O.R.? Minister, you can take your word for it. I'm obliged to tell you that you can't... (Dusan Vujovic, from the scene: I will not listen to this nonsense. The people in the broadcast listen to this nonsense. Please, Minister. You have no right to throw. I ask Minister Vujovic to take a break for himself. He has no right to cast an MP. I'm setting a break from a minute to get Minister Vujovic out. Here you go, Minister. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: There is no right to speak personally to anyone. ) Please, MP Martinovic, there is no right indeed to the minister to be directly... (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: There is no right to speak personally to anyone. ) Please, MP Martinovic, indeed for the application of the Rules of Procedure, no matter who it is. The minister can't yell. Peace in the O.R. He can't yell at an MP in the course of the discussion and say he can't listen to it. The minister is right, and so is the governor who answered the question, to answer. That's what the Rules of Procedure says. People's MPs are getting out of town. Please don't throw it to me and the minister asked him out and we did it. It's nothing to argue with. The Minister doesn't cause a problem, neither do you. Go ahead, I'll give you back this minute. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: I think it was a little longer. No, it just seems to you. Continue your discussion, because the governor wants to answer you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21429	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. I must admit this is the first time you've acted on the Rules of Procedure, but I must admit I'm very surprised by Mr. Secretary's nervousness. So, in the event of bank bankruptcy, what I was about to say, and what the minister interrupted me for a moment, when it comes to the deposit insurance bill, this law decides by the National Bank which bank will take over the bank's deposits that goes into bankruptcy. We ask the governor why this is so, why is there no public tender for these jobs that would clearly define what is required of the bank that should take over these deposits, so that it can perform its function? I am sure there are several banks in the country of Serbia that could be doing these jobs, not just one bank, as so far has happened, which has been created under the name of the Savings Bank and which is getting all the deposits to regulate its obligations. On the other hand, Mrs Tabakovic, we do not understand why you have obliged banks to directly apply the single international accounting standards. So, in unaltered form, in the English version. We have a clear objection to that. It is similar to what happened, in its own time, in Bulgaria when laws were applied directly without translation. It would be normal for these laws, i.e. to be translated, to be published in the "Official Messenger" in Serbian with certain comments and instructions that would adapt these instructions, or better explain how they are applied. When you defended some views in this law, you said it was also a practice in some other countries, a significant practice in some other countries. You then listed five countries of Europe, although there are many, many more countries in Europe. So it's not a significant practice that would instruct you to apply those standards, as an experiment, not only these standards, in Serbia. Dear Governor, of course, I understand you've frozen your SNS membership, but you're still vice president of the SNS...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21430	Your time is up. Thank you. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The advantage has the first promoter, so you will get the word, because it wants to respond to everything that MP Vesenović said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21431	I have a long parliamentary experience and a lot of patience and understanding for your wide-ranging remarks, which you have made here, but I have included a microphone key at the moment you made an extremely dangerous claim. You made it seem, on purpose, unknowingly, that the National Bank came here with a legal solution for which they wanted to issue money. I ask the present MPs, please the Serbian public, to ask the girls who keep the stenographic notes to record and to hear that it is about issuing numismatic money and suitable forged money, and that in no case can it be equated with the terminology that you are, very conscious, because you are not ignorant, you are a lawyer, used here and said that the National Bank has come to issue money, to request approval from MPs to issue money... (Janko Veselinović, from town: Kuju. )......................................................................................................... There are also metal coins that serve as a specific point structure in regular transport. It's not about that money. It's about good money and numismatics. If we have come out with a proposal, which restricts ourselves from respecting not only the ban on the monetary financing of any level of government in Serbia, we also limit this right to not giving guarantees to any level of public government. Excuse me, you are a representative of the citizens of Serbia that you are harassing in this way, doubting them that the NBS will print money, issue, forge, and the NBS achieves historical results in the lowest inflation so far that it has recently been a champion in the environment and which is why we are talking today about housing loans in a foreign apoenical structure, i.e. indexed in francs, euros, not dinars. I understand your opposition to the Public Procurement Act and being governor doesn't prohibit me from seeing reality from both eyes. No one can forbid me to remember being in a town that you and I come from getting even an ambulance by the parties, is that missing? What's no longer possible... Yes, you understand me well, ambulances were purchased by parties, boxes, wheels, etc. I'm not talking about the newspaper text, I'm talking about the paperwork that I delivered in this House and handed over to the competent minister, then to the Prime Minister. Is it okay for you to mention "Sinkum 4" to me today at the NBS story and one responsible problem solving citizens? To me, which bought "Sinkum 4" also in private 2006 and 2007, because cancer has no right for a sick person, according to that rule to get on the prescription "Heparin" which is to be received every day, only one who is operated and who is fitted with stent can do so. From then on, how much has the list of medications been improved, what is the prescription list, how many medicines have been cheaped? The more people who can access health care where everything is not as ideal as never and nowhere, the better we try. It's not right. You know I'm not talking about empathy and compassion for other things, because for political reasons, I'm talking about it as a man who survived, who is now one of the many who has such a patient, so it costs such expenses. It's not right to mention the streets and the supply of drugs at the same time, to say that nothing's wrong. You know, you have the right to judge each and every one of us, but you have no right to ignore facts, to distort data and to disturb the public. Because if you tell anyone that he got into getting a foothold by reading a tabloid print, I ask you, does that require me not to respect the safety and health law under which the rule gives rise to the obligation to provide the computer-based leg holder? Excuse me, construction worker uses a helmet, and you don't know the Law on Safety and Health and Obligation of an employer who, if he doesn't provide this, needs to pay, to get a misapplication. You must not be excused by ignorance. The fact that according to the risk assessment act that also stems from the rules of the same law, the employer is obliged to provide both a gynological examination and an ophthalmological examination for the one who counts money or drives, it is indeed below the level that I expected from you. You know, they say in a war and all means are allowed in a kiss. This is neither love nor war, this is the life of citizens of Serbia in which the NBS has the responsibility to take care of, not a small fraction of the financial sector, that very important, the 20,875 party is there and the NBS takes care of them. But he doesn't care about the public and the newspapers, and he doesn't make any noise, but he talks to the authorities and the responsible about it. So don't let the banks get out of here, by cheating solutions from others and above all by wanting to keep this country safe by making it possible for new jobs to be opened by investors who can't work without banks, because they're in these banks and deposits of the economy, but they're also saving citizens. Which you citizens are pushing at each other, those who have loans in Swiss to those who have loans in euros or those who have no credit, for example those in southern Serbia who have never been able to stand up to such a risk living three generations in one apartment and for a wage, without being able to raise a loan at all. Is the budget supposed to cost, for example? One group of clients who so rapidly increase interest, as you say, I believe there are such cases. Every case is a case for itself. I'll finish my presentation in words, anyone who wants to solve a problem doesn't solve it by confrontation, by conflict and by raising a wall against the other side with which to solve the problem, the NBS acts so responsibly and responsibly. For all participants in the business of the problem of the Swiss franc, insurance of deposits, solving issues of troubled banks we speak openly, we respect every interest and there are figures imminent. I came to this Parliament today with the same desire and with the same intentions. You know me as a person who's open-minded and heart-ready to talk, always wants to listen to a reasoned remark, but come out with the claim that the NBS came here, asking permission to issue money is really something that you can't keep quiet about. On all concrete issues concerning the law, the way the bank chooses and all other very reasoned answers you will get in further discussion, but I simply will not answer those questions at this time, because we will have more time. I will not allow these intentional insinuations to create confusion in the public or fear in the public. How many NBS have managed to maintain stability in two and a half years, in what conditions, with what heritage and what economy and what instability have been happening in the nearest environment, how weak the currencies of much stronger economies have been, I won't repeat it to you, because whoever doesn't want to hear it is not worth repeating to him. Those who want to welcome the future in Serbia are aware that it is proven in the act of the claim that only stones cannot be changed, what this government is doing and coordinating monetary policy that will help encourage and stimulate banks to invest in this country, not control, control and warrant, acting preventively, expecting not only patience but also interaction and assistance for all those interested in Serbia's progress is the only way we can get out of the problem we have found ourselves in, and we have indeed found many. To me, my personal, family but also political education and this "backgrand" with which I am proud of the party that I belong, because of the legal provisions I have frozen my function, does not allow me to elaborate these problems so openly, that it may deserve the danger of your remarks. I am showing patience, because it is beyond my desire to show how well-intentioned you have not responded to the interest of Serbia, the interest of citizens for whom it is much more important to see in this room all those who want to help both the NBS and the Ministry of Finance and the Agency where you are trying to bring peace and discord to who has taken responsibility and to underestimate our maturity and our commitment to solving Serbia's problems. I'm asking you that in future discussion, you can really say whatever you want, but don't bring it up, you can qualify for my personal appearance, my behavior or anything, but don't bring out false facts like this about issuing money that's not a slip, not by any chance... (Janko Veseinovic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21432	Ambassador, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21433	I ask you that when you talk about the legal solutions carefully because although you claim that these laws arrived yesterday, they were publicly available and no one has stopped you from meeting them since 18 December and from the moment the government put them on the site. So don't talk to the public like it's about the papers that came out last night. They were at a public hearing. Did you have time, did you get here because you're working, I really don't want to get into it. But don't underestimate even a part of the professional public that we've been working with. Don't mind me. You know me how energetic I am. This isn't anger or any kind of anger. You know I don't have that. But I really can't stand it if someone who doesn't know well enough to judge because neither his legal or economic knowledge is unique, but his fear of tomorrow is great, that you're harassing him with a statement, especially those who know about hyperinflation in the 1990s, are still listening to stories about those many zeros. And the story of making money is the story of inflation. It's mine to work on, and it's yours to evaluate our work and I have nothing against it. But I beg you to speak the language of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21434	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21435	The Honorable Chairman, just what the distinguished Mrs Tabakovic here brought me to my colleague's speech to quote an article. 106th and 107th, and I call on them. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I have not heard that the governor's salary is part of the agenda, and when we do not remember Mr. Shoskovic's wages in his time, how much she was, say, when she's complaining like that now, or Mr. Jelasic. We'd better take a look. And what Ms. Tabakovic said, you should have reacted when Mr. Vesenović was here presenting incredible truths that extremely offend the credibility of this Parliament and excited the public in some way, alarming and creating a public panic, because if we are already talking about these public procurements, it would be good to remember how our businesses were devastated through procurement through a direct contract at their time where it was absolutely a dominant kind of public procurement. It wouldn't be bad to remind ourselves, since we're talking about control, and otherwise it's just these laws and how control of financial transactions puts absolutely in one normal plane, in their time the money was coming out of Serbia however you wanted it to be. We haven't had any control of financial transactions and, of course, that's what the relevant data say. 55 billion euros were taken out of this country in their time. They've desolated our country, and now they've found such untruths to bring here and to insult both the intelligence of the people and all of us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21436	Article 106 and Article 107 shall only apply to the item of the agenda and shall not be allowed to address the Member of Parliament directly. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Don't yell. Really, stick to the agenda. What are you yelling at? You haven't answered. Others have reported to you before you for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and do not mobilize the entire parliament with your desire to always give you a word when you ask. A little culture while someone tries to answer without you interrupting it by throwing it in the bar. It doesn't make sense. So the governor of the National Bank herself asked that she personally respond to all the false allegations that the MP made in his address. He even wanted to provoke and he said -- he won't protect you, and that's not what the governor asked. It protects itself by its knowledge and by its profession and by its skill. Therefore, she responded to all that had been stated. Are you looking? (No) I thank you. The word is Vučeta Toskovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21437	The Honorable President, a respected minister and members of the ministry, is injured by the Rules of Procedure and I must repeat what Mr Djukanovic said, an art. 106, 107 and 108, for the simple reason that in Article 106. The Rules of Procedure say the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. You may be indirectly involved here, because you didn't warn him at the moment when he's saying things and not talking about the subject that's being searched. In article 107, it is said that the dignity of this National Assembly is marred. Not to be disturbed, but some of the opposition MPs do not want to disrupt it, but rather destroy it, this Assembly, which is not good for this parliament. You should have warned him. Article 108 states that the chairman leads, namely, to “work at the meeting of the National Assembly of the Old President of the National Assembly or the Chairman. ” I think the previous speaker by DS, I don't know what his name is anymore, hurt so much of this assembly that he deserved a warning. Imagine what hate speech it was when he provoked the finance minister that he had to leave the gym, just because false data and false things were being delivered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21438	Thank you. He didn't leave the room for that, he decided to stay, but he had to come out for a moment and he'll be back. There's been a mistake. Regardless of what MP Veselinovic has often addressed them and the insults, because false things can also be offensive, not being true is also an insult. As for the speech on the agenda itself, I held a session for four minutes, a 16-minute vice president. I repeat again, the governor came forward and wanted to answer that, because that is her portfolio, and they were referred to the untrue allegations on her account and the account of the management of the National Bank of Serbia, and it was enabled her to do so. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21439	Thank you, Your Honor. I think you've hurt your ankle. 103 and 104. The first violation of Article 103, which says that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the president, immediately after the injury has been committed. After the presentation of my colleague, Mr. Veselinović, you gave the word to the Governor, and then after her presentation, two MPs called and pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is contrary to Article 103(1), which I quoted to you. You also injured attitude 2 when another MP appeared and pointed out the same points of the Rules of Procedure which were injured, as well as the first, and Article 103's position said: "The MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly that has already been pointed out." So you've done two injuries. Also, you made a violation of Article 104 when you were a Governor, and you yourself said, in her desire to respond to claims made by your colleague, Veselinović, contrary to Article 104 of Title 4, which says that "the replica cannot last longer than two minutes" gave the right to speak as an authorised representative for 13 minutes, and practically only replicates. So if he wants to pick up the line and replicate, then he's got two minutes. I'm sorry, because we have two minutes here, we can't talk any more than that, so come on, and you guys be straight and talk and you talk for two minutes. You've done three very serious injuries and I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure in the course of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21440	I'm trying as hard as you can, of course, I'm trying, really. First, MP Toskovic called on 106, 107 and 108. We didn't even pay attention to 106th and 107ths. We didn't pay attention to 108ths of the ageing. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You were also talking about 106th and 107th, everything is in the stenogram. Here, you're yelling again. There's the attitude now. MP, you yell, you get in the word, you act rudely and rudely. I'll refrain from speaking, because that's what you want. You wish, as an MP, for some of your colleagues and in this House of 250 MPs, only three MPs make such an atmosphere. So this has nothing to do with the chairman and the violation of the Rules of Procedure, all the chairmen have three issues, because they think they can do whatever they want and how they want and the Rules of Procedure don't apply to them. The governor's line wasn't requested. She is the representative of the proposed law. You wrote and voted in favour of the Rules of Procedure and allowed the representatives of the legislators to speak unlimitedly in this part of the session, and when the amendments are addressed, they can only speak for two minutes, regardless of the amount of speech and questions they receive. There's something wrong with that, but you should have thought about it when you wrote this Rules of Procedure and when this Rules of Procedure was perfect for you. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, which you wrote, so you need to take a little time to study it and to know what you've done, because something like this is seriously written for all time, not when you're in power, and then you get distracted. Are you satisfied with the answer? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, of course not. You're not. Do we want to vote for the injury? Yeah, right? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I can't yell, you'll punish me. Don't yell, answer the question. We're not at the party, and you're not even funny. Yes or no? (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: Can I use the microphone? You don't get a microphone for that. Yes or no? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. Yes. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go. You mentioned SNS, every third sentence. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: Why the replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21441	Mr. Vesenovic said he was bothered by the seven laws we are discussing today, and he did not mind when he proposed 57 laws on 29 May 2009 and brought them together to one point on the agenda. He said, they are not compatible with these laws, and, let's say, he put together the law on changes and additions to the Law on Broadcasting, the Law on Plant Health and the Law on Foreign Affairs. We connect very much in the direction of SDS and Janko Veselinović. He said Janko Veselinovic misses the Prime Minister here, so he has some questions to ask him. There's no government in parliament. Gentlemen, in 2008, the government of DS and Mirko Cvetkovic and Janko Veselinovic did not come to parliament once, in 2010, not once, three times. Well, for the entire term, Mr Cvetkovic, you know, Mrs Tabakovic, we were together a number of senior MPs, awarded seven times every 15 minutes, as long as he was in parliament, and here there are more and more ministers present in the government and the Prime Minister than opposition MPs. Mr. Janko Veselinovic said, making certain claims, driven by political hatred, but not a single proposal. This is a reflection of Mr. Janko Veselinovic's inexplicable, incompetent and incompetent SDS, but he did not lack knowledge, nor the will to support solutions when the Vojvodine Development Bank took over the role of the Capital Investment Fund, he did not mind voting to grant funds to Anani Pavicic and the company NS DON.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21442	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21443	There may not be any of these drugs, or doctors, or anything that Mr. Veselinovic quoted as saying, because it went to NS DON, I guess "Novosadski Don", "Novosadski Boss" Ananias and Janko Veseinovic. He did not mind voting to be recapitalised twice with 90m euros, something that was ultimately worth 10 or 100 times less under their authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21444	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21445	I hope you'll give me two and a half minutes, as well as Mr. Babic. Mrs. Tabakovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21446	Excuse me, who did you want to replicate?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21447	Mrs. Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21448	She answered all your claims, and she can't. I'll do it later. You've received a replica of Zoran Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21449	So I'm responsible for every word, every sentence I've spoken, and it can be witnessed by the citizens, that there's not a single lie in them, not a single lie. I can agree with Mrs Tabakovic that I may have been not quite accurate until the end, but from a broader context I could understand that I said that the National Bank, speaking of provisions that were not so important that they were regulated now, were more important provisions on the protection of citizens, consumers, I also talked about savings that save in euros, i.e. whose credit is related to euros and Swiss people, I was talking about the course of the dinar. I thought it would be more important to discuss it than, I said, to discuss the coining and the rights that the NBS gave itself, and only metal money can be forged. Now, in the modern financial system, there is no metal money that has any more significant value. I said, "The money that will have certain characters on it." It could therefore be concluded that it was a numismatic money dedicated to certain events. It's more important for me to say this, when it comes to public procurement...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21450	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21451	... Mr. Loncar, Minister of Health, when he was visiting here when he was in the National Assembly about ten days ago, said that public procurement threatens the purchase of drugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21452	We don't have it on the agenda, we don't have the Health Law on the agenda. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: You gave two minutes and 30 seconds to Zoran Babic. That's not right. ) You – two minutes and 20 seconds. I don't know what's wrong, and what's wrong, two minutes and 22 seconds, two minutes and 20 seconds, you've moved on to Minister Loncar. There's no more correct than I am here, really. The word has Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic, governor, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21453	It'll take less than two minutes. Mr. Veselinović, you were in parliament, but you obviously forgot. In December, we adopted an innovative Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services here, raising the level of protection of all financial services users to a higher level, December 18th was voted. I really don't see any reason to ignore it and say we should have gone out with such a law. Let me tell you again, because the convenient coined money NBS usually sells, like all other central banks, in the rooms of its exhibition premises or museum parts, we wanted to settle it by law, because we're acting and we're doing it by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21454	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by National MP Dr Dusan Vujovic, legislator of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21455	Thank you. I responded to Mr. Ambassador's statement saying it was us, i.e. I, personally used my name, we can ask from the record, that we took, that I don't use a more difficult term, the functions of the Deposit Insurance Agency. I asked you to read the sentence. Now I'm going to read a sentence that we took something from. The sentence is and this is the only change in the Law on Ministrys – participation in the management of banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia is being transferred to the Ministry of Finance, as well as the organisation and implementation of the process of selling shares in the same. So if the Ministry of Finance, i.e. The state of Serbia has no right to manage its actions, I don't know what you're talking about. Someone once gave it to an agency that was operated in the way and provisions that were in force at the time. Returning to the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia was perfectly logical, consistent with changes in the laws that are being proposed and I reacted because you formulated it as a personal insult, mentioned the name and implied that someone had taken something away, stolen it or otherwise. Please, ask for a stenogram to see what you said, it's very important. I'm very tolerated. For those things about the law on procurement, I just said, it's not in writing, but I said we're only putting up with one member that allows us to apply the savings that we've brought here with the budget and nothing else. I didn't say there was a lot of illogicality. We are expected to negotiate on a chapter concerning public procurement to Europe, and this will be an opportunity to bring the whole Public Procurement Act into line with Europe, to avoid illogicality and everything else. There were other members, and we decided in the internal debate that this time we would not change at the same time, but only one that was necessary - to cut costs. That's all I wanted to say. So, please, I asked you to read a sentence from which it would be clear that what you said does not stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21456	Thank you. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the National Assembly MP for the vacant parliamentary seat, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the MP's mandate in order to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the MP have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Election of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Branimir Rancic, elected from the Electoral List Aleksandar Vukic – "The Future We Believe in", the Serbian Progressive Party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, New Serbia, the Serbian Renewal Movement, the Socialist Movement. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of MPs of the people, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Branimir Rancic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. Dear People's MP, please, under Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Let us wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. The word is Ivan Jovanovic. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: "I'm sorry, what about me?" You don't have a word. Pursuant to Article 104(3), the President of the National Assembly shall decide on the replica. There was no basis for replication. You're being held accountable by authorised representatives. There's really no basis. Read the good Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21457	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, Governors and other guests of the National Bank and the Ministry, the urgent procedure under which we pass these laws is not right, and even less is the timing, that is, the time left for MPs to get acquainted with the laws and to prepare for the debate. I got the laws that came from the government, I'm not talking about the National Bank yesterday at nine o'clock, and at ten we had a Finance Committee. How can the People's MP get acquainted with the proposed changes in just an hour, which are very important for both citizens and the economy, to discuss them in quality, and then to make quality amendments in 24 hours? We've heard here from the government and the National Bank that we can get to know each other on the websites of the executive and the National Bank with the proposed changes, with the blueprints, go to public debates and check out what these laws look like. I think it's humiliating for the National Assembly to talk about MPs in this way, that they should seek and beg to be delivered to them by a bill in time. I think the presidency of this assembly should, in that sense, consult with the Serbian government, in terms of respect for the Rules of Procedure. First, I will talk about the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, a law that in some ways extends the national bank of Serbia's authority in accordance with the Payment System Act, but, on the other hand, some provisions are being implemented that have nothing to do with this, or other laws that are in the process today. It tries to reduce the responsibility of the governor and functionator of the National Bank in some cases and reduces the ability of the Assembly's control work, reporting the powers of the Assembly's committee. For what reason is the report of the committee responsible reduced, or abolished, in the case of a six-month report on monetary policy? There is no reason to abolish this report, nor to lift the report on regional co-operation that comes down to that annual report. It could have been six months, it didn't have to be three months, I agree, but it's not good to abolish these provisions for a simple reason, because if we're in favour of reforming the rules, if we're in favour of approaching the EU, we're in greater control by independent authorities, by the National Assembly and by the working bodies of the Assembly, we certainly need it, and I'm sure you'll agree. I think the situation in the banking system is extremely bad and that the solutions offered so quickly, which could not be discussed, are not in favour. What was I talking about? Article 86b. - the responsibility of the National Bank functionor. In a very inadequate way, the provisions of the responsibilities of the National Bank officials are changed when it comes to damage caused by deliberate or extreme negligence. It is proposed that the definition is that they are responsible for the damage caused by deliberate or extreme reckless change and that they are said to be responsible if it is proved that they have not acted in good faith. A pretty much one solution that can't exactly be defined in the law. The Law on Bond Relations recognises caused damage and extreme negligence, but it does not recognize this relative attitude of conduct in the good faith. What's the reason for doing that? Is that how the People's Bank wants to be fenced against the possible damage that will occur and which it does not want to answer for? Furthermore, if the Executive Board makes a decision to suspend a payment institution's work permit, why is the provision deleted, you did not even state it in an explanation, why is the provision for the governor to sign the solution? Who signs it if the governor presides over the executive board, rather than the governor? Why does it get wiped out of the law? Will the Rules of Procedure and the Statute provide that someone else should sign the solution, as proposed by the National Bank, that the Governor of the National Bank may appoint another person to attend the National Assembly meetings on the laws of their jurisdiction? Is it possible that in such a difficult situation, in the plight of financial and economic pressures, the governor cannot attend the meetings of the Assembly or the vice governors? Why couldn't it have been defined like that? What other persons can attend under the authority of the governor of the National Bank? I don't think other people can and only in exceptional cases can the governor appoint a vice governor to represent the National Bank in matters of the jurisdiction of the National Bank. That's what it says about the attitude towards the citizens, that's what it says about the attitude towards the economy. In what way? Earlier, Mr Vujovic said that it is good that these laws are united, the debate is united, because they concern each other and it is their turn to be together. He then said that the amendments to the Law on Public Procurement are good and will not harm our economy because it is in advantage because it operates on domestic territory because, compared to foreign companies, it has this great advantage that business premises have on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. But, I ask - does, Mr Vujovicu, domestic companies have the same possibility of lending as foreign companies, can the green interest offered to our companies be approximately as small as small in developed economies? Of course I can't and of course I can't do domestic businesses in the same conditions as foreign companies, like big systems. I don't think it's good to talk about domestic economy this way. It needs to be supported, to help, not to be watched in this way to save billions and a half of dinars. But I'll talk about that law later. I'm just doing a crackdown on the National Bank Act. The question for Ms Tabakovic on the banking system is -- how many citizens of Serbia will cost the transformation of the Serbian Bank into a bank to support the military industry? We haven't heard anything about that. The issue is of interest to the citizens and I ask you to inform us how much it will cost the citizens of Serbia because of the MPs and citizens. The second question is, what is the currency savings of citizens, or what is the amount of deposits up to 50,000 euros in four Greek banks? Will Serbia's and Serbian citizens' budget be forced to save those who deposited money in these banks? Is it true that 20% of deposits or 1.7 billion euros are savings in these amounts in four Greek banks? What happens if the negotiations of these banks are complicated, given the latest developments in the political and economic situation in Greece? Do we have an answer to that question? What is the answer to the question of citizens in charge of Swiss francs? How will they be helped because, truth be told, they themselves are the most responsible for being in charge of francs, but if the state intervenes on many other minor topics and makes laws even for some minor groups, I think it's time for the country to take some kind of age on this problem. As far as the draft law on the Deposit Insurance Agency is concerned, this is a law that was somehow brought into force under the pressure of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank. You're saying that's not the case, but it can be clearly seen from the reasoning of this law. It is not the first time that the argument sent by the government is not in line with the performances of representatives in parliament. Here's what the proposaler says in an explanation – such a change in the status of the Agency is prescribed as a commitment of the Republic of Serbia under a contract approved by the EBRD to provide a stand-by line for the financing of the Deposit Insurance Fund. Therefore, it is clear that the World Bank and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development's intensity was to create a maximum of independent regulatory agency and body. I don't think the government has succeeded in its attempt and hasn't even gotten close to any such solution. As the Serbian government imagines an independent agency, Article 11 best speaks about the way the agency's board of directors is elected. A member, on a proposal from the finance ministry, is appointed and resolved by the government. One member is appointed and resolved by the National Bank of Serbia. Independent members of the board of directors are appointed by the government, on a proposal from the finance ministry, with prior consent from the National Bank of Serbia. Can anyone in this room and can any of the citizens believe that this is the solution that will bring us the independence of the Deposit Insurance Agency? What guarantees us that, as in the case of the election of the director of Railways by the government, these solutions will not be changed overnight, but that the only criterion remains only the belonging of the strongest political party of power? Another solution that is extremely interesting and shows your relationship with parliament and shows your relationship with the bill, you have proposed a law in which you leave the Agency's board of directors to determine whether the agency will have one director or have a board of directors. Why didn't you determine that earlier in the government? Is it possible that the board of directors of five members, I say now again, a government addict, are more competent than all ministers in the government combined? Is it possible that you've made an incomplete proposal, a proposal that isn't complete? Because you say that after the adoption of this law and after the election of the board of directors, the board will decide whether this agency will have one or more directors. In doing so, the citizens of Serbia need to know, the agency's intelligence is being reduced, but the number of directors is increasing, potentially. So far, the agency has had one director, and now it's going to have more directors. Also, there will be no law on a limited number of officials, and there will be a reduction of the information. That's what it says in this proposal. Why is this proposal not well considered? Why no final solutions were found, but rather left to the arbitration of some governing committee, which is reportedly going to be independent, and it is clear that no one can work without pressure in Serbia today and nothing is independent, precisely because of such a government relationship. In the end, the Public Procurement Act. This is, let me say, one proposal that shows all the unseriousness of the government and shows how important it is to the government how the economy works, which is the position of domestic bidders and shows one complete unwillingness for the government to deal with the recession, with problems of the economy, with a misery that every day increases the pressure of Serbian citizens. In light of this law, Mr Vujovicu, you say this solution will lead to savings of around 1.5 billion dinars per year, amending the Public Procurement Act. If we all remember well in the National Assembly, when the Law on Public Procurement was passed, we had great announcements, that this law would bring such phenomenal savings, that the citizens of Serbia would only feel and benefit and will literally enjoy it. It was one announcement in the factory's chip production ranking or, for example, the Danube-Morava-Egey Sea channel. Representatives of the ruling majority were full of praise for a law that would allow for the reduction of corruption, to provide additional funding in the budget for the most affected layers of the population, to allow a real boom of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, none of that happened. We have a situation that corruption is even bigger, which is confirmed by independent world agencies, and you can't keep repeating that some former government is guilty of all this, avoiding responsibility for it. In the past week, we had Mr. Vojinovica, a report from the auditors, which speaks precisely about public procurement. Instead of taking care of the change of the Public Procurement Act, quality application, above all when it comes to state authorities, ministries, you have reached out to get your hand right into the public's pocket or business, because there's only one thing left to get away with. There's nothing more to do with capital, because we've dealt with all crime and corruption, and now it's up to citizens, who are reducing wages and pensions. And the State Auditor says that, out of the controlled 135 entities that spent 16.5 billion dinars for public procurement needs, we have 363 cases of illegal public procurement. We have 7.56 billion dinars of illegal public procurement, we have 45.81% of cases controlled that are illegal in cases of public procurement, and that, I'll give some examples. You have an example of the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism in 2013, you have, not a former government, this government, or former Vuciceva and Dacic's government, or the Ministry of Transport for 2013, or you have the Office, famous for Kosovo and Metohija, Aleksandra Vulin, where you also have huge irregularities in public procurement and allocation of funds to associations. Why didn't you try to fix it by applying the Law and make it possible for the domestic economy not to be less competitive with foreign bidders in public competitions and tenders organised by the state. Why did you reach out to a 1.5 billion dinar measure, according to the economy, when you already saved a billion euros on the basis of the law. It's just that a billion, unfortunately, no one's seen it yet. No one sees, and citizens see that they live worse, that they live in ever worse conditions, that the state of Serbia only helps large capitalists, only those who come to the side, and not transparent conditions, from the famous Potenkin villages concerned by chip factories, airline parts and other colorful lies, which should die Serbian citizens to suffer even a little more, and already in 2017, 18, 19 or 20 will start to improve them. Well, it won't start because from this procedure, this procedure that you perform in the National Assembly is completely evident that you have no interest in being responsible, that you propose the laws in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the laws, and that's something that speaks enough about the way you understand reforms. Reforms are not implemented in this way, reforms can't be an excuse, they should be the cause, and the consequence should still be a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21458	Proposers have come forward. The word is made by Minister Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21459	Dear MP, I will begin with the remarks that are the subject of our discussion, confirming my openness to talk. I'll start with what's formal. Equality of the NBS as a legislator of the law in this House, with other proposings, implies that someone else, who is authorised by the governor, but who agrees with your remark that this should be up to the level of the director of the administration and vice-government for whom the mandate is just obtained by the votes of the MPs in this House, means that the lower of that level does not bring down the person authorized to represent the laws proposed by the National Bank. So, we suggested that it not only be the governor, because there might be a need for him to be sick, to be on his way, and that someone else should be present in parliament. That there are no such restrictions, but that someone who represents the National Bank is no lower level than the vice governor or director of the administration. And here we are prepared, if you have submitted such an amendment, to adopt. I don't have a problem. Also, yesterday's remarks that you made about the delivery deadline, that is, the dynamics of delivering a report on the implementation of monetary policy. NBS professional services had a problem with six months of monetary policy delivery, then yearly. Turns out they're delivering you twice a year's report for the first six months. Also, I have no problem with keeping that dynamic six months, even if that annual report repeated a report from the first six months. I'm very open to adopting everything that contributes to our better co-operation with reporting. If there is such an amendment, we will adopt it, if not, we can define it together on the committee responsible to be as an amendment to the committee by making it public, that it is your idea that is completely in place. Speaking of reporting for co-operation with international institutions, I don't think any important things happen within three months. But if you think that the conclusion of an arrangement with the IMF is something that could contribute better and say, to a more thorough arrival in this Assembly where we really have something to present to you because the IMF will have its reports and regular control of the implementation of the commitments, I don't see any reason why it won't be three months. So, I am not at all interested in narrowing down the space for informing the MPs and raising them to a higher level of responsibility for the NBS to this Parliament. What I am obliged to explain to you is a completely Serbian and open story about it, and what independent members are with previous consent from the NBS, or the Ministry of Finance in that body of management control at the Deposit Insurance Agency. I'm sorry, Mr. Jovanovic, but would you pay for something, and if someone were just to file a bill and ask you for money without you seeing where that money was going? What's it for? To me, it's the Ministry of Finance. The finance ministry, which on behalf of the government, is someone who spends some of the money from the Republika Srpska budget on cases that are meant by this law, so he must also know who will decide on the moment when the state money is used to maintain financial stability. This is an argument why the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the government, appoints an ana-proposed finance minister. Why with the consent of the NBS? Well, if you don't think the NBS has enough work to do and now has this unit of organization that we call FIRU that will deal with bank restructuring, primarily preventively, is wrong and wrong. We've got a lot of work to do. But our capacities, professional, information technology, but before and above all, the responsibility we have for these cases means that we need to do something and to ask ourselves what we're going to be responsible for. It's basic logic and there's no philosophy. There's no use, no coercion or anyone. It's elemental logic. If there's anything I have to answer for, I need to be familiar, and I need to ask myself that at the right moment, and how do you most ask yourself, how are you a real powerful owner? If you have a representative who can influence the decision-making process. Why are we in a position to ask me today, among other things, about the Serbian Bank? Well, because the state's owner was an impotent owner of banks where she had shares, or owned a stake. It's time to break up with that practice, and these are mechanisms as it seems. Why is the mechanism a collective organ as an option that stands in the law? Well, do you see that in the transformation of banks we take good practice, you no longer have one man exclusively to decide about it. You have the chairman of the Executive Board but it is made up of a collective body called the Executive Board. In view of this practice that more people know more, as I agree with you, I want to improve the amendments some solutions, and because earlier solutions have shown their shortcomings that eventually proved to be a cost that someone had to sign and pay, it came up with a solution that is good but we didn't want to leave an alternative but an option. There's one director, but it could be a collective organ. Does the number of employees increase? Well, it will increase in this part where the National Bank has to establish this new organisational unit. Unfortunately, new responsibilities also impose a new number of people, but the Deposit Insurance Agency has so far shown that there are insufficient resources for competences. You know that excuse that was often brought before me and before you, that dead banks spend as living for unfinished bankruptcy, for a number of questions that open up and I can't get an answer either, not you. When I say, "I, not you," I don't think it's any superiority but the place where I am, so I can get more answers. Believe that these answers cannot be easily obtained, because when it takes some time as bankruptcy proceedings that have lasted since 2001, 2002, unfinished to date, they are really a reason to improve the practice of what we have found open and not closed issues and never to open such questions again. Now, what is not my jurisdiction but is my experience and obligation to tell you. I'm sorry, but what law does the act of passing make savings? Is there one law that anyone ever passed, that by the very act of saving 100 dinars, not a billion? Law-making doesn't mean saving at that point. I have a very long parliamentary experience and I have no effect, I have not had the opportunity to read the effects of the laws that are being proposed and that will be passed. I have a very direct answer for you. Before the current Public Procurement Act was passed, 28% of the total procedures were negotiating. Let's translate it for the citizens, in four eyes, as you say - that's how it's gonna be. The two sides agree, the orderer - the delivery boy. Do you know how many such negotiating procedures are behind closed doors today? All 10%. He can't do anything overnight, but gradually he can. As my esteemed Gordana Komić, a colleague I am happy to listen to, says step by step. Just so we know we're going in the right direction. You can't say the Public Procurement Act is the wrong direction. But why do I respect every MP, especially those who commit themselves to these problems, do not say that out of all controlled entities by the State Auditing Institution, NBS is the one who has not had any violations, no money that is not directed where it is not necessary, nothing like a basis for a violation, three technical recommendations relating to the recording of supplies related to the issue of personal documents. One huge problem that we're trying to clear up in that three-way document printing contract, former contractors, the police department and us. I admit to you that you've made some pretty good remarks. What I don't think is right, I'm explaining. Well, it would really be the right thing to do in good faith, give good intent to praise those who deserve it at least in business control, which is the NBS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21460	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. Mr. Jovanovic, you signed up again? (Ivan Jovanovic, from town: Replica. ) Replic on? (Ivan Jovanovic, from place: Replica na Mrs Tabakovic. ) Please, please, in one sentence only, since they are waiting for the other authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21461	I can't do it in one sentence, because it's important matter and we have to end it, I thank you for accepting suggestions concerning the National Assembly, reporting to the board of directors. I have submitted the amendment, although I consider this to be an acceptance of them in advance, it is then also about reporting three months, I have suggested that it be six months, but to be precisely because of their co-operation with the International Monetary Fund, and here I think we agree. In any case, it was not necessary to lower the reporting level precisely because of the importance of the National Assembly. I also have an amendment on independent members. I think they should be proposed by the board of directors and voted by the National Assembly, three independent members of the Management Board. I don't think there'd be any dilemma then. It would be completely public, transparent, and certain that it would be more acceptable as a solution to such a body. I did not say that the government should not act on the suggestions of the IBRD and the IMF, but I said that it is not true that there is no agreement with them, but that the agreement is simply spoken of in an explanation, and we heard when we proposed the law that they did not affect these institutions. The Executive Board is a collective responsibility. That's why I asked, I'm surprised to see the view of who's signing the solution is erased. It's simple, it gets into the eyes, nothing else, but simply when we see that the responsibility for the functionator of the National Bank in other attitudes is changing, then it draws attention. I agree with you, the National Bank had no objections from the auditors in this regard, as well as just a few other institutions, which is truly devastating for the law that was so expected. The application itself is extremely bad, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21462	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21463	I have remained in your debt to answer for the signing of the Executive Board's decision, a simple technical matter. Under the General Administrative Procedure Act, the chairman is predicted to always sign the resolutions. So, the governor always signs the decisions of the executive board, and that's not at all questionable. I was talking about the Executive Board in the deposit insurance agency's management body and the independent members. This is a completely indisputable matter and technical detail, but I owe you an answer for the Serbian Bank and the Greek Bank. When it comes to Serbian Bank, I am truly appalled by a single dose of interest and curiosity of something called investigative journalism and what Mrs. Ljilja Smajlovic, whom I have to quote, has called - by taking other people's three potatoes that have fallen off the truck as her own three potatoes that someone has grown and says here's the fruit from my country. It's an investigative journalism where everything that can be compromised by an international contract, by an investor, is considered a public secret that should be born at a time when an individual or a group wants it, even in many cases we have evidence with the desire to scare one of the investors, and we all know how much capital is a timid bird and who even the slightest sign of uncertainty can drive out of here. Now, in light of the fact that everything should be a public secret and the availability of information to the public, we are also talking about the Serbian Bank. I think that how many days today, the National Bank was giving an opinion and when I look at the phone, don't think that I'm texting, working on still, taking down the confidentiality mark now that the Serbian Bank's restructuring process is already at hand by the responsible founder of the state. That's what the government will be owning in a day's time by stripping the confidentiality mark off that document. When it comes to your curiosity, justified, but I think prematurely, around Greek banks and deposits, I have to tell you that here are Austria, France, Greece, Italy, Cyprus, Hungary, Germany, I'm counting them at the level of participation in the entire banking sector, all banks as banks are welcome and none of us have any ability to look at the crystal ball what's going to happen, but on the other hand we have a duty to be prepared for some scenarios that can happen, but it's really not the time to talk with any amount of tension about the consequences that can produce the situation in Greece. We're careful, we're considering, we're counting, we're watching, but it's not the time to talk about it, and I hope they're going to have to do it for themselves first, and then the banks that are out of Greece are making responsible decisions, so neither are we going to have any costs or jobs. I apologize for the length of the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21464	Thank you, Mrs. Tabakovic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21465	First, thank you for your constructive objections to the Public Procurement Act. I think our list fits pretty well with yours, and I even think that part of the thing and the damage that this law leads to by not allowing it to do, so it's causing inaction, actually much bigger than the part where we would have objections. So, the law simply blocks a lot of things. The process is so long and complicated and not adapted to our conditions and it is a serious topic. I said that opening a chapter on public procurement with Europe would be an opportunity for us to look at this law and look at everything that concerns this law, reality, especially those things where we have partially taken over a solution from Europe and the world, and we have not taken parallel solutions that allow some urgent procedures. That refers to a whole series of very useful remarks that we've already said here. So this in these laws of original existence, but in us the people who made this law thought we didn't need these reliefs, the white lists weren't needed, the speedy procedures weren't needed, shopping domestically, international shopping in areas where it works, every small firm would confirm it to you. So there's a huge space for promotion. I agree with your suggestions, but let's do, if necessary, one working group that will, as part of the preparation for the head on public procurement, search and come out with one harmonised proposal. To be constructive again, I will return to this law. I am prepared, if, as an amendment, you offer this to include the Assembly, or committees, find a way, a formulation, in the appointment of independent members. I absolutely don't mind. Therefore, find a formulation, I have no objection to the intention of being independent. This is where the Ministry of Finance was meant solely because of the responsibility it has, because currently the funds of the Deposit Insurance Agency, the funds that the Ministry of Finance is responsible for in front of them, and that is why the increased role of the Ministry of Finance is, but otherwise I don't mind the Assembly and the Committee being involved in the appointment of these people and that someone has the right to say from the list of ten people whose biographies we're going to look at, professional competence to look at, etc., to choose people. It's too important for anyone, any personal, individual, not to talk about party interests, to try. This is too important a place and it sends a signal to everyone about the reliability and transparency of the financial system. Therefore, every suggestion you make will be accepted. As for this change in the Public Procurement Act, which I'm putting here, I have to spend one minute explaining the essence to you. Although the essence may seem a little different, the point is that the bidder's side is both domestic and foreign companies, but this is our law on procurement, here are all our customers. So that 5% hits all of us, and the 5% benefits only have some of our firms, and no foreigners. So, you make sure that 5% of everyone who has to pay, including this paradox that you said our finances are expensive, believe me, look at the old version of the law, our banks were entitled to 20% higher interest, even though it's high anyway. So what you sometimes don't see in these laws, you don't see what the real effects are because we don't have enough people or data to figure it out properly. This law certainly gives those billions and a half savings in the implementation of the 2015 budget. This is included in the program, and we bring this in at the end of the day to enable the application of this law to save itself as a goal. So it's my only explanation. It's not the whole change of laws, it doesn't deny other suggestions and suggestions. I think we look at them all together in the context of head preparation for public procurement. As for these other things coming out of the Ministry of Finance domain, I wouldn't comment. I just want to say one thing - the Ministry of Finance has a responsibility to secure housing loans. Part of these problems you're talking about here, and it's our proposal to try and find solutions that will be fair, but also fiscally feasible. It means that this agency continues to function, that citizens are not injured, but also that we know that in the future we have transparent rules that, among other things, these laws promote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21466	Thank you, Dr. Vujovic. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21467	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs Tabakovic, Mr Vujovic, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing the set, as Mrs Tabakovic said, of conditional laws that in one fundamental and comprehensive way regulate the matter of restructuring bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, as well as the authority of the National Bank of Serbia's Deposit Insurance Agency and the Ministry of Finance. That is why I, as an authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group, would like to inform you that we will support all these draft laws in the voting day. It is true that the financial sector is in the Republic of Serbia, and as its main element are business banks, faced with the serious consequences of the global economic crisis. With this in mind, the National Bank of Serbia has also seized the Agrobanks' work license, as well as its new Agrobanks' Succcessor, the Vojvodine Development Bank, the former Metals Bank, the Business Bank of Belgrade, University Bank, while the "Serbian Bank" "has recently been shut down by shutting down its business network, branches and expositories by the interior, reduced to the level of former military service from which it was created. Of course, this long-term global recession in which the world economy is located, with pessimistic forecasts for the period ahead of us, is in no way going to hand in the recovery of the financial sector. In line with one of the proposed laws, it is stated that development, stagnation, i.e. the return of the financial system has a dramatically significant impact on economic activity. It is also true that a stable banking sector is the basis for the good functioning of the economic system of any developed market economy, since the level of development of the financial sector is a key basis for the competitiveness of the economy of each country, since it mobilises money on the one hand, while the funds collected are invested for the most productive purposes. I must add here that we must not forget to talk about the system of external courts and that the financial system cannot exist and function if the real sector is in trouble. In an environment where we now have a lot of mistakes from the past, above all a huge number of economic operators no longer exist, a large number of workers are out of work, the standard of the population is not at an envious level and in such a situation as a result of such non-domestic business in the last few decades and banks cannot expect safe and profitable business. Often there is a parallel here with the first half of the 1990s with hyperinflation that we faced, i.e. the purchasing power of the population, but here I would like to highlight one fact that is forgotten, that citizens in that period had a high level of savings from the past better times and that these reserves have been exhausted over the last twenty years and that most of the domestic budgets in Serbia are operating from today to tomorrow. Thus, not only the lending of the economy, but also the population became a risky activity. In doing so, the competition of banks on our market is extremely large, regardless of what has occurred in a certain cross-border relationship between forces and the consequences of the shutting down of some banks and the arrival of new ones, and anyone who has a little stable current account in one of our banks is practically bombed by the most diverse offers in terms of banking services, primarily credits. It is easy to conclude that the key problems of the banking sector are not so-called. troublesome, or poor placements. In fact, they are only a logical consequence of the fact that banks, given the extremely reduced size of the total economy, have no place to place the collected funds and therefore have not allowed us to take the loan. The funds provided by this are increasingly flexible and then no wonder that many plasmas are very quickly becoming problematic, when it comes to the ability to collect them, of course, I cannot mention this opportunity and that we have very high interest rates of credit to the banks that offer them. When I mentioned the unbreakable link between the financial and real sectors, I also want to say that banks, i.e. bank loans, are not the only way to finance economic activities. Unfortunately, our executive power in the period when these laws were passed, when it actually proposed amendments to the set of these laws, I mean in 2010 it exclusively took care of the preservation of the stability of business banks and, in that sense, it was also adopted by the Deposit Insurance Act, where, as a new solution, the state guarantees a deposit of up to 50,000 euros, but in my opinion, it has left out the domestic capital market and we are paying that price now. We know very well that in developed market economies, capital and assets collected on the stock or co-operative bonds are much less than bank loans. We, as I said, have not done much to keep our capital market to the extent that it has suffered as a consequence of global events, and now it is indirectly sacred to us, among other things, and through the liquidity of banks and major problems in the sector that it primarily wants to be preserved. When I talk about the Deposit Insurance Agency, I think it's a good solution in a new law that exempts a significant number of jobs from its jurisdiction and delegates the Ministry of Finance. I've spoken here several times, and it has, unfortunately, proved to be true, that the competent agency did not have sufficient personnel potential for all the jobs that she was entrusted with. I see that as part of this financial arrangement, it is also envisaged to strengthen the personnel structure in both the relevant sector of the Ministry of Finance and the Agency itself. However, I believe that this body, as I said, has so far failed to meet expectations. I am also sincerely afraid that in the coming period, given the new duties it has, too, I am not sure it will meet all expected expectations. It is proposed that the Agency remain in charge of compulsory deposit insurance, insolvency or liquidation management tasks in banks, insurance companies and leasers, as well as of adding related responsibilities, such as asset management transferred to the bank restructuring process, in accordance with the proposed law and organisation of the investor protection fund. When I mention the detention of the Agency's jurisdiction over the conduct of bankruptcy management in banks and insurance companies, which hit this unhappinessful fate, I would like to remind all of us that the bankruptcy procedure against "Belgrade Bank", "Jugobank", "Investbank" and "Beobank" has just entered the fourteenth year. Regardless of the justification and complexity of this length of bankruptcy, it is perfectly clear that this is where Serbia's state and citizens lose the most. In the case of these four former banks, the frame to take advantage of the opportunity to make sure that currently under Agency's authority as a bankruptcy manager is located next to these four banks, as I said, another 14 banks, eight insurance companies and four savings cooperatives, and it is good that the provisions of the new Bank's Banking and Liquidation Act and insurance companies set up a mechanism that should speed up the completion of the bankruptcy process. I am also encouraged by the fact that changes to this law have been introduced and taken into account serious shortcomings in practice, which have also been pointed out by bankruptcy judges. When it comes to the Agency, I also think that a good new solution that reduces the direct influence of the state is manifested through provisions on the composition of the Agency's board of directors. In this way, one of the principles of an effective deposit insurance system is achieved, ensuring that the insurance is operationally independent, transparent, responsible and protected from the unjustified political influence and influence of the banking sector. Why am I apostrophealing this as a good solution? Because if the Agency had been less dependent or completely independent of politics in the near past, we might not have the Agrobank case today, or "New Agrobanke", which costs hundreds of millions of euros by taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia and with a still independent outcome. I am interested in what the competent authorities think is doing about the constant complaints of foreign shareholders of this bank, which refer to all possible and impossible addresses both in the country and abroad and which we, as MPs, often receive. I think Agrobank should be a lesson, though, extremely expensive for all those who make a decision when it comes to the banking sector. When the bankruptcy procedure was launched in 2002 in four of the most significant domestic banks, the Agrobank was left out there for some reason. In 2006 and 2007, several recapitalisations were carried out on the wave of euphoria at the stock market. However, the outcome is quite clear. All that, unfortunately, did not yield results. When we talk about a solution to the Deposit Insurance Act, I will repeat the proposal that the Deposit Insurance Fund has been practically emptied to settle New Agrobank depositors and Vojvodina Development Banks, which, among other things, conditioned the need for financial arrangements with international lenders. I think the state has acted responsibly in this case, trying to prevent all possible problematic situations that could arise in the banking sector. It is said that there is something good in every evil, so also here, I think that the situation created by emptying the Deposit Insurance Fund has conditioned a rapid reaction by the competent state authorities, in terms of proposing new, better legal solutions, which should warn similar situations in the future. I would like to commend the NBS as the promoter of amendments to the Law on Banks and Amendments and the addition of the NBS Act for new solutions, which are primarily aimed at prevention. I think the new, greater powers of the NBS and the newly envisaged bank restructuring models will, in good time, prevent the possible decline of business banks in situations where bankruptcy is often the only option. At the end of my presentation, Mrs. Tabakovic, I would have a few questions. The first question concerns what fate awaits domestic banks, the remaining domestic banks, such as Cachanska Banka, the former Kredi Banka from Kragujevac, the Serbian Bank and the Danube Bank? What's the state planning with the Post Office Savings? Is it planned to set up a new bank that should aim to support domestic economy through a more favourable credit line? How does the NBS plan to react to major currency shifts? First of all, I mean over 20,000 stable loans indexed in Swiss francs. What is your prediction, since the dinar lost between 10% and 15% of the US dollar and the British pound in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21468	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21469	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Governor, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today's united debate on this set of laws, amending and supplementing the law, may freely say, covers several of the important reforms in which our country is moving. On the one hand, we can say that new institutional assumptions are being put in place that there are no new cases of banks going clearly in the direction, which in the end meant that the spilling of their bad decisions at the expense of all citizens in Serbia, and that key institutional actors, such as the NBS, who care about the stability of the banking and financial system, can only point to problems waiting for us, so we have so far. We are not the only country in the world suffering from regulatory problems. We're not the only ones with banks that got into big trouble. We don't have the ability to hide it in a drawer, as many more orderly and richer countries do. So we need to make these solutions that will prevent everything from happening and make sure that at a time when we manage to turn the high budget deficit into a peaceful budget port and that there are no new expenditures that are the result of the mistakes of some individuals, who are irresponsible, unable to lead those organisations for whom they are in charge. Our responsibility is much greater, because we cannot address the European Central Bank, we cannot threaten to suspend Eurointegration and no one in the world has the obligation to finance our mistakes and we must be aware of that. That is why we need to keep working on our regulation as soon as possible, to be compatible with EU directives, while at the same time being a step ahead. Because our mistakes cost more, and the possibility that someone else, at least in part, covers it simply doesn't exist in practice. Don't get the wrong idea from my statement that I think our banking sector is essentially worse than some of the more orderly countries. The problems that exist in Serbia exist elsewhere, except that the NBS cannot buy bad placements unlimitedly, as can be done by the European Central Bank. We are a country with a little maneuvering space that needs to get more room for reasonable policies as soon as possible, and that is the only way we can do that if we continue to go in the direction of the EU and our alignment with their laws and what I said we should be one step ahead from time to time. We need changes that will enable us, not only to be proactive, and this specifically refers to the NBS which has been in a very long position as a consultant for a very long time, because the points when it can take action are very high, i.e. it is already too late and can only be talked about the recovery of the damage, but about true prevention. On the other hand, we need to have reasonable procedures that can disintegrate the always present bench of those debt-confidential relationships in banks and insurance houses that go bankrupt. If bankruptcy itself, in the worst case scenario, is the liquidation of the bank, bad for the entire financial system, and the effects are spilling into the real sector, the worst thing is that this process has been going on for years. If it can stretch and block without a clear idea, when the process will end in practice. As important as it is to do everything possible to avoid worse outcomes, it is so important that there are reasonable procedures that stem from reasonable laws, which make the process of bankruptcy through the instrument of protection of creditors. Above all, the world insists that the state today prescribes regulatory criteria, and that it is up to banks to respect them, and only when what was once their key job was to set their own risk management criteria. The system that, when we say this, we're going to have means maximum deposit security. The development routes will likely be such that classical commercial banking will have more and more risks covered by different types of insurance. Therefore, our inclusion in world trends is inevitable. As we couldn't, and we shouldn't have run away about Basel one, two and three, so we can't when it comes to security of deposits. This is a process that will probably be continued. New developments in the world market will also mean new challenges for us. I must say that the position of our parliamentary group is to support these laws and amendments and additions to the law, which aim at more security, both risk protection and legal certainty. The amendment of the law, which may be least indicative and deserves a little more attention, is an amendment to the Law on Public Procurement. Amendment to the Public Procurement Act, I must say, today we are reducing the level of preferential protection for domestic producers. We don't think there was a need to rush it, because it's very complex matter that's particularly important at this time when we're sorting out public finances. I'm glad that's where the man who let himself see the light of day is sitting. We've all worked together to make it as functional as possible, efficient, but unfortunately whenever the law goes away, when it starts to apply comes to those things that you have to change something, because it makes it difficult to apply the law. I have to say, every country that runs a reasonable policy sees a wide picture and the consequences of some policy. Preferential treatment is not a unique practice. It is due to the fact that when you give a job to a domestic company, and here I mean companies that are registered in Serbia, the state has more benefits through taxes, through employment, through business development or, as you will, through the substitution of imports of domestic products. The effects are multiplicated and preferred when used wisely can give a solid wind in the back of our domestic economy. I say, when used wisely. Like any solution, when it is not put in the right way, if it turns into a space for infinite distortion of those criteria that we have prescribed, it becomes the opposite of what we wanted to do with the law and what the legislator wanted. So we need to think carefully about preferential treatments. There are commitments that will wait for us even when we are moving towards the EU, but this process will also mean opening the EU countries' markets for our businesses in the public procurement process. However, in order for them to have a chance, it would be good to give them a chance to strengthen in Serbia, and then to prefer loss, as it expects us, that is our reality, to see it as their chance, is it fully related to the same treatment for our businesses in other countries. We need to be careful and smart to dose the growth of our economy and its inclusion in a much larger market that offers many chances, but also a handful of dangers for those who are not ready for such a market. It is far more important than the reduction of preferential protection that sublaws remove its abuses that allowed foreign companies or products from foreign companies to become domestic. Of course everyone laughs at us when the bidder gets confirmation that the donkey is domestic production. Now, that's the use of preference. And of course that's why it's heading that way to cut it down. What is even more important when public procurement procedures are at stake and procedures, we need to make them strict enough. But not like the case so far, because we have to make and be friendly with reasonable solutions that won't make public procurement a process that can last for months, which we've had a chance to see and hear. It is very important that when we prescribe criteria, we bear in mind that public procurement is an area that has a specific character. The solution here won't be ideal, but it's important that we respond to legitimate objections. If we were to talk now, it doesn't turn out that I'm dealing specifically with these changes and additions, because we have a set of laws, but I think we should think about it in the next period, because there are a lot of these remarks from practice when it comes to Article 40, Article 51, Article 52, Article 3, etc. I can explain, it's not a problem. Here, for example, Article 40 is governed by the Framework Agreement and it is one of two specific forms of public procurement procedure. So that's what we should think about in the future and work on. Article 52, which makes it very difficult for us, regulated and regulated conditions for the initiation of the procedure and found that the contracting authority may initiate the procurement procedure if the procurement is provided for in the procurement plan. So there are a lot of problems because the calendar year is over at 31, and then while the plan is adopted, colleague Bojan Terzic knows it best. Article 3, item 1, point 10, the contracting authority's representative is a member of the board of directors or supervisory board, and then we have difficulties in applying the terms of the contracting authority, because we have different organisational units in companies and continents that function are separated, they have nothing to do with the implementation of public procurement procedures, and we have to make that notion regarding managers who do public procurement work become linked to public procurement operations. There are other examples and examples, of course we need to talk about and talk about as well as what we are and then, when we have passed the Public Procurement Act, about the amendments that the SPS submitted at the time, that all public procurement plans need to be transparent and public, we will remain consistent in that nothing should be out of the public. Everything needs to be transparent. Above all the public procurement I would say and torture all of us, and we know from practice that the state itself must be quick and make it possible through its plans for others to plan public procurement in time. We have serious problems here. I think this year and we plan to do something about the amendments and the addition of the Public Procurement Act, but well, we're on our way with a preference, so we'll move on. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I repeat once again that our MP group will support the announced amendments and additions of laws and laws. At the very end, I'd have to say something that the public always wants to hear, and we have to say. We are the pro-European party with the longest internship, both in politics and in the approximation of Serbia in European values. With all this, we will always support what leads to a better system and reforms in Serbia, along with our partner who is just as committed to reforms as we are. Besides hearing such sarcastic smiles on my right, I'm sorry, but percentages tell me who's what, who's what, who's what and who's consistent with his politics. Thank you for your attention. I hope we get to talk a little bit more specifically when there's a debate in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21470	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21471	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in these past five hours of debate over one set of laws, I have listened to everything and everything. Something I can't understand about the MPs who supported the former regime or participated in the former regime, is that some of the things they said, I really wouldn't have the courage to say in this building, in this room amongst the MPs. You know, it's hard to blame someone else for something you did yourself. Even a fellow MP went so far that he deliberately or accidentally falsified in a certain way, not everything he wrote in the law, but only what he would attack with criticism. There were even stories about how, here's why, in the amendments to the NBS Act, immunity is given to the governor, the vice governor, if this damage is proved to have been done on purpose or with extreme negligence. He says: "This is changing, and now it is that they have not acted in good faith. It is an argument that someone is attacked and not read the final position in which it writes – if the appropriate procedure finds that the persons of Article 1 have spoken to the damages of that attitude, deliberately or with extreme negligence. What is it, but a mockery of all that the promoter is doing, and what is the National Assembly discussing? An even greater courage is needed, ladies and gentlemen, for MPs to say that corruption in Serbia is bigger than before. That's what I'd really like someone to prove to me, to ask him what cartoon he was looking at? What fairy tale did he listen to? Serbia is making progress year after year on the list of untapped countries. For 2014 we have progressed nine places. If someone's sorry that it is, that credit belongs to this government and the SNS, I can't help them. Why didn't he fight corruption while he was in power? Also, I can't agree with some of my fellow MPs that there are thieves' parties, there are no thieving parties. I can't say for any political party that there are only thieves in it, not for any political party to say that there are only honest people in it, but there is a difference. When a person commits a criminal offence, whether the party's leadership supports it, whether it protects it, whether it pressures the judicial authorities and the public prosecutor's office so that it is not prosecuted on the other hand by political parties who condemn and make such political party officials available to the judicial and prosecutorial authorities. It's one change since 2012 in Serbian society. Whether you want to accept it from the former regime or not, that's your problem and I can't help you. The famous Public Procurement Act is mentioned. The State Auditor's report is mentioned. What were you fellow MPs discussing here? Reports by the State Auditor by 2012, that a misapplication was filed against the minister because he paid for the kevapci from the Republic of Serbia's budget and did not write a report with whom he ate them. It's funny, but it's true. Sad. Public procurement law. Where are the crimes for breaking the Public Procurement Act by 2012? Violent reports have been made. That law is good. For who? To thieves. For no one else. All those resistances going on about the Public Procurement Act are making thieves. I am now asking fellow MPs - who are they trying to defend? Those who think well of their country, who prevent corruption, steal or those who defend thieves? Maybe it's funny to someone, I don't. Savings in the Public Procurement Act. You spent a billion and a half, two billion euros and made 14 kilometers. Now he's making 60. What kind of savings do you need bigger? Saving is when with the same amount of money you do more or you get a bigger favor. When it comes to the Law on Public Procurement, it is the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, since a colleague who is a doctor of law doesn't even know what the Commission's name is, but knows he's talking about it. She won't say that the old commission didn't work at all, that the law didn't even exist that she applied, that according to the same legal problems she decided differently, because my God, someone, a friend, a favorite of the regime, had to get a job. It waited six to eight months. Now on those 30 days, another 10 to 15. Tone can't wait that long. That's how many 10 to 15 days a problem. That deadline goes down from month to month. Why did we get such long deadlines? Because the old commission has not acted since September 2012 until 1 April 2013, and has buried the new commission with old cases and old law. The question arises -- who were the criminal charges filed on the findings of the auditors? It's not a problem at all, it'll be made public. But I'm asking another question -- according to the old Public Procurement Act, who's been charged with criminal charges for billions that have been robbed? There's a law written by which it can be stolen. None of them have been filed. That's the problem. Everyone who's talking about it right now is just acting like they're sticking their heads in the sand and hiding the truth. This now amending the law is to facilitate work in public procurement procedures. Don't worry. We know the Public Procurement Act isn't perfect. A task force will be re-formed to make amendments and to supplement the law, where we will have all the problems we have seen in law enforcement to remove. But in advance, there is no going back to the old. There are no protected orders, no contractors, no bidders. They're gone, they're gone. There's no going back to the old one. The biggest problem with the Law on Public Procurement is that such a system has been established by 2012 which is very difficult to disassemble. Some of the system also implement the new Public Procurement Act and deliberately sabotage it to return to the old law, so that billions of billions from the budget can disappear again. That's the problem with the new law. The only one. Why is the number of complaints referred to the Republic Commission for Protection increased in public procurement procedures? Just for two reasons. One is because the commission's work is being sabotaged, complaints and complaints are being filed on everything and everything. The second reason, because those honest bidders have confidence in the commission that they will solve their problem in accordance with the law, unlike the previous commission on which neither the record nor the steno-biscuits were kept, was not known who was a member of the commission, the authorised representative of the commission by a particular case, where the members of the commission dealt with the cases by convening the commission and putting a bunch of material on the table and saying – see if anyone is interested, but I suggest this solution. Thus, the commission decided on 4 and a half billion euros in the RS budget annually. It's a shame there's no telling who the reporter is in which case. To hide the paperwork from the other members of the commission. Afterwards, we wonder that we have more solutions in the same legal matter. It's gone. When it comes to the Deposit Insurance Agency, in general bankruptcy, liquidation and bankruptcy procedures, I find it very interesting. Very interesting, firstly, because of our unfortunate Agrobank and secondly, because of the Vojvodina Development Bank. When it comes first – how is it that the System of Control by the National Bank completely failed when it comes to Agrobank? How could Agrobank get a passing grade for continuing its work in 2012? How is it that the vice governor who was in charge of the control of the bank's work and the hair on his head is not missing because he damaged his country by 600m euros while he was Governor Soskic? I'd love to see you defend him for this. I'm just curious. Are we going to do the same thing with the Vojvodina Development Bank? Someone finds it funny that a billion euros have gone missing for the citizens of Serbia. That's funny. I don't. It can be funny to someone who took part in it. But I know that I and most of our colleagues, regardless of which parties and Serbian citizens we should return that billion euros to the budget from our own pockets, from our families to take. I don't think that's funny for those reasons. I'm very interested in where the bank's funds are so far, especially for banks that were withdrawn from work licenses in 2003, where were those funds deposited? Can we bet they were deposited at some private banks? I'm ready to make a bet. In private banks and that these same banks with our assets belonging to the state of Serbia bought our state securities of value and charged us interest with our money. Let's see who's going to attack this kind of legal solution now, whose bank is it going to defend? What bank will write him the amendments? Private, of course. I'm very interested. And that's a robbery for me. The money belongs to the RS budget until the damage suffered by Serbian citizens whose funds were deposited in these banks. The creditors of these banks who gave them loans, of course, but something takes too long. It's the 13th year since some banks lost their license to work. We are interested in everything, and the Committee on Finance and Budget Expension Control – what is it with these banks' assets? No matter what Miroljub Labus signed that famous affair about SARTID, he wrote off a billion and $200 million in SARTID's debt to domestic banks, here, I admit, maybe the man was right, but it was in bankruptcy and he counterdated the signing and it was proven to be so. That can't happen anymore. The attack is that the agency should be independent in its work. Whose resources does this agency have? Who's he representing? Who's he supposed to pay off? The state. So it didn't bother when Miroljub Labus liquidated Serbian banks, then his independence was not sought in the famous SARTID affair. It was hidden from the citizens of Serbia, and now we ask that one agency that is a state body be independent. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, independent holders of judicial functions, holders of public prosecutorial functions, subject to supervision of the National Assembly, independent citizens' protector, independent trustee of information of public importance, independent auditor, independent trustee of protection and gender equality, but, my people, they are doing a job entrusted to them by either the Constitution or given to them by the National Assembly that they are working on the original authority of the Assembly on behalf and on behalf of the National Assembly. Who is this agency going to report to? Shall we run the bank's bankruptcy? That's what courts do, not the National Assembly. The agency is an ordinary state body. It seems to me that many people liked the story of the independence of the state authorities very much. I like it too, but some people are too late to like it. They preferred the state auditor as they exercised power, and while the state auditor wrote them misappropriations for payment and eaten kevapci, not a written report with whom they were with. That's where you got the DRI. With changes and additions to these laws, a very interesting area is finally regulated and is known precisely in the entire system for what needs to be done in a particular situation, especially when it comes to banks, because the state guarantees every stake of up to 50,000 euros, regardless of which bank, whether state, is private. The state has the right to protect itself by law against irresponsible, unprofessional or malicious behavior by the owner of the bank, because it guarantees his roles. That's why, without hesitation, without thinking, as the SNS MP's club in the voting day, we're going to support this law. Also, we will not take part in the debate in detail on pointless amendments. No matter what parliamentary group the amendments apply to, if they go towards improving the law, we will support them and ask the legislator to support them as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21472	Since authorised representatives have exercised their right, we are now moving on to the list of registered MPs. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21473	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Governor, honourable ministers with the team, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I will comment and discuss amendments to the law on NBS and the Deposit Insurance Agency. I also think I will try to give a broader picture of the negative effects that have occurred, which many of my colleagues have talked about before me, and it is about bank bankruptcy in the past few years, starting with Agrobanka, ending with the Business Bank of Belgrade, what the budget and taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, cost close to a billion euros. Maybe it wouldn't be so drastic, or so big a problem that it's just a matter of monetary policy, that it doesn't have clear and enormous negative effects and fiscal consolidation on the overall public sector and, of course, the entire national economy. I can't help but mention that these things have been happening in the previous period since the crisis occurred in the euro zone itself, so in the EU, in the US, in Japan still 2007/08. I will also mention that the EU itself has invested about $100 billion to help the banking sector, especially in countries that are the periphery of the EU. In that first step, Spain gave four and a half billion euros to its private banks, in the second phase of 19 billion, so that it could and could thus save the banking system. But something else is going on with us. We as a country with all other specificities, like a country which, that is one of the very important indicators, still has no market economy in that full capacity, is happening quite diametrically one opposite thing, and that is that we have a problem with state banks, that private banks with all the proper functioning and in a perfectly correct way have overcome the global economic crisis. We have a clear crisis between 2008 and 2012, a clear crisis of management, a clear crisis and the integration of the management of state banks with oligarchs, which at the end of the country cost directly one billion euros, indirectly several billion euros. Given that economic theory does not need much to know that it has one negative, multiplicity, spilling over the effects both on demand and on what the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to do, which is fiscal consolidation on the decline of economic growth and, of course, huge negative effects on the overall national economy. Of course, it has had effects on public debt and has effects on our country's ability to borrow abroad. I will remind you that Spain at that time was in debt with an interest rate on long-term bonds of as much as 6.5%. We're up in that period 2010/11. For years, they owed even 7.5%, so that the percentage would now be much lower. What concerns me most is that fiscal consolidation itself, which is an inseparable part of the consolidation and an inseparable part of the country's economic reform, cannot take place and cannot have quality results without the strength and strengthening of the private sector itself, and all that has happened with state banks has had a very negative effect and negative consequences on the private sector itself. I don't know why and I don't know why the NBS leadership then, why then monetary authorities, of course, in co-operation with the financial authorities, didn't act preventively and didn't approach any of the models of acquisitions, measurement or anything else, so that they could react in time and potentially try to save these banks through a strategic partnership or some kind of privatisation. I stand in front of my party, in any case, for the private sector in our country to have primate and that it has proved for the past 25 years that state management can be very difficult to survive, especially in the competition that we now have and at the level of the region, not to speak at EU level. We could've done all of that, but that's the question, why is it that when it could've been done it didn't do it? As far as the Deposit Insurance Agency is concerned, its role was simply devised at the end of 2012, when the Deposit Insurance Agency had to pay the Postage Savings Agency 199,6m euros, to simply empty its fund, because only one bank cost so much, and we have one trail of events, when the Vojvodine Development Bank and all these other banks were talking about all afternoon. But in addition to emptying it and having to empty the account from us all known reasons, it spent nearly 5m euros each year misinvesting in the capital market. So, this takeover by the National Bank of Serbia by the Deposit Insurance Agency is a good move, a move that will ensure, a move that will advance and allow one better control of the banking system, better control of banks, so this never happens again. Of course, I will remind you that it happened in Serbia in the 1990s. We are not lonely, something like this has happened twice in Croatia, but I think with this kind of policy, this kind of change of law, and we also mentioned on the Committee on Finance, the budget and the control of the spending of public funds the idea of introducing and establishing so-called. The resolution fund, which is precisely the cost of all these bank-related errors, whether private or state-owned, will transfer to the banking system, to the market, rather than to the citizens of Serbia. It will actually be one final result and this is just one step and one phase that will create a single order, discipline and one responsible and quality business and supervision, when it comes to the banking system and when it comes to the banking sector. I am sure that such losses, which were made during that period of crisis from 2008 to 2012, cannot even be in theory. Because if someone had thought of this, that he'd been sitting in the cabinet for days thinking up losses and figuring out how to pump this kind of money out of the state banks, I don't think it's even the biggest experts, people who know monetary policy and the system could think of doing it. We also have an example from Sweden. In the 1990s, as Scandinavian, as a country rich in resources, as one country known for social justice, known for its citizens' wealth, had the same problem. Many banks in Sweden were in front of bankruptcy in the 1990s. What did Sweden do? She nationalised these banks, restructured these banks, revived the banks and sold them on the market. Now Sweden has no problem with that. What I would particularly point out as one value of changes and addition of these laws is that full capacity will protect the interests of depositors, that there will certainly be greater discipline on the market and that there will be greater, more intensive and quality co-operation between the National Bank of Serbia and the Deposit Insurance Agency itself, because this coordination between such important state institutions must be almost on the daily level and must in any case be harmonised, competitive and implies one of the most qualitative aspects of the supervision that we expect from colleagues from the National Bank of Serbia. Since such problems, and we don't have any more small problems when it comes to the functioning of the National Bank of Serbia with the governor, Mrs Tabakovic, I am convinced that we will make maximum progress on this system and that in this sense, the arrangement of potential and surveillance opportunities will enter the domain and enter the circle of those developed countries with the market economy, which are doing the job of supervision in the best and best possible way. I would also point out, appeal and give suggestions to both monetary authorities and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, to think about establishing a guarantee fund, but a guarantee fund that will have a double key. We now have the Development Fund and have voted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to amend and supplement the Law on the Development Fund. However, it is clear that in order to strengthen the private sector, in order to ensure that monetary policy is maximumly consistent with fiscal policy, with fiscal consolidation, in order to make these results clear, in order to be concrete, in order to result in economic growth, I feel that there is a need to come up with some solution to provide favourable funds, especially for domestic businessmen, for the start of a business app, but only under the condition of a double key, or one mutual control between private banks, private sector in banking and state, so that we can come up with the best model for crediting and reviving the private sector in our country. Finally, I will look back at the proposal of counterpart Ivan Jovanovic, who proposed that members of the Agency's board of directors be discussed, discussed and elected in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as part of the parent committee on finance, budget and control of public spending. I think that's a great idea. I believe that this could strengthen and speed up control over the appointment of people who will self-monitor the Agency's work and who will be responsible for the situation and for the situation in our country's banking system. I think the Committee and the National Assembly themselves have full capacity, both professionally and each other, to do the job in the best possible way and to take over that intelligence, so that the best and most competent people come here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21474	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21475	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Governor, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I must repeat my dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction that we are discussing such important amendments and amendments to the law by an urgent procedure, without the possibility that we have had enough time to get to know each other in quality with these proposals. Mrs. Governor has long been a folk MP and knows that within one day, as long as we had to study all these government proposals, it was simply not enough time to get to know all of them, look at all those newspapers and react to the amendments, because we could only submit the amendments today until the beginning of the debate. He doesn't understand this angle of anxiety when it says the finance ministry is now taking some responsibility from the Deposit Insurance Agency. I do not know why the word “take ” is offensive and offensive to anyone. The fact is, the minister read it himself, that one member of the Ministry Act, which now gives the Ministry of Finance authority to determine and participate in the management of this agency. We can also say that it appoints people who will participate, suggests that it is good or not, but that's what the bill is about, so let's exchange arguments before the law comes here, and we don't insult ourselves when it's said. Believe me, I'm much more offended when someone says -- you know, there was a public debate from December 26th to January 14, because the laws stood on the site. Since 19 days, there are nine days of unemployment in those 19 days, and now you say, "It is a public debate." Please don't. What public debate? Was there any public listening here in parliament about these laws? Was there a meeting where we were talking? No, but someone could have known, looked, and said something there, sent a memo. I'm talking about these government laws. It's nice that the National Bank has been doing it a little longer, but I don't think it's appropriate for the big changes to the Law on Banks and the National Bank to be given as additions and amendments to the laws, they're too big. It will be difficult to follow the law now with large-scale changes and additions adopted this way. There are also some rules as to how and what is appropriate to change and supplement the law, and when to do a new law. We think that in the case of such big changes, it's better to go to writing a new law. If there was a real public debate, it could now be said whether giving these powers to the National Bank, taking over some of the powers that the Deposit Insurance Agency has so far had, transferring it to the National Bank and forming a special body, a specialized body, I apologize for not remembering the expression that the minister called that body, is that a good solution. We don't think so, in principle. Yes, the National Bank is now being played by both police officers and judges and executioners. A lot of great authority in the hands of the National Bank. You were talking about that in other countries, i.e. that it is something that EU countries are more difficult to do and that we may be moving forward in this. We think that, regardless of our desire to be part of the EU, we are politically representing the quarter of the century, unlike some others, we should not rush at all times and it may be better to apply some of the experiences that have been proven to be good. For example, these are experiences of Spain and Ireland that have had extensive bank restructuring in the last five years, since the time of the global economic crisis, and where their national banks did not do so, but they did some special bodies. We think that by separating it, the role and responsibility of each of them would be strengthened. This way we can get into a situation where the National Bank takes over the restructuring of a bank, and then condition that certain solutions are respected by the withdrawal of a license or something. We think that it is simply not good and that practice will likely show that, regardless of what the Minister believes, we have enough quality people, both in and out of the National Bank, and that they will now form, or gather in that specialized body, remains concerned about how independent they will be in their work. Of course, in this discussion, we could talk about what's going on with the Serbian banks. Why Serbia's practically banking today, clinically dead. Is the state responsible for the bad situation and how responsible it is for the situation in those banks that are still under government today? And if it could have been avoided. Why today's Telecom before privatisation announced, buys one bank, a very discriminatory state, with completely unknown elements and a price question, and why it is said that Telecom had to buy a bank, could be done by obtaining a 10m-euro license, and this is how some uncharging claims, all sorts of things are taken over, and the question is whether it will only make it more difficult to sell Telecom. In any case, the debate when it comes to passing such important laws is important. You can't convince us that it took this speed from the moment the laws were passed at the government, came to parliament yesterday, and today it is due to be adopted. You mentioned that we made a commitment as a state at the end of January as the adoption of these laws. The end of January is tomorrow, these laws will not be passed until the end of January, so we can also tell you that we will not respect that deadline that we have set ourselves. I think there was no need for that deadline, and I think this shows, once again, the haughtiness and incompetence of the ruling party that cannot find solutions for the problems of the Republic of Serbia's economy that constantly, when it criticises only finding the culprits somewhere in the past, and sometimes it's not enough 2008, 2009, 2010, we return in 2003, 2002, 90, or so on, I don't know where either. No one is saying what was done in 2013 in 2014, what is happening today, why the state is silent about the problems of citizens who have loans in Swiss francs, when in all other countries, some measures are proposed, adopted, reacted and their national banks and ministries. Only with us is he silenced and transferred responsibility to those who took those loans. It is the best indicator of the government's irresponsibility, disrespect for Serbian citizens and the fact and best indication that the time has come for this government to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21476	Mr. Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21477	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, Articles 106 and 107 have been injured. To me as someone who is a mathematician, I don't like reason, in common sense, that someone who, in a political sense, is a Social Democratic Party or a New Democratic Party or whatever, exists for a year, and says, these are ideas for which he stands and whose watchman is a quarter of a century. How can someone who exists in the political system, who, for example, in Mionica, has failed to gather people or who will stand on the list and support that list, or sign support on the list and run for office, say – we think this government can go away. Well, I think you who say that first need to cross the censorship. Or to gather people to support the list. On the other hand, I don't think it matters who's the keeper of the fire, but who's going to cut the tape and lift Serbia's ramp towards the EU. And I'm sure because of the reform policy that we've been leading, because of the dedicated policy of changing our country and creating a decent, normal society, and for too long, we've been groping in the place, acting like we're walking on a moving track, where we've been led by non-reformers, but media mags and those who have packed empty in a beautiful chain and thus served the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That time of his previous speaker, his leader Boris Tadic, was a long time ago, and that tape and ramp towards the EU of the Republic of Serbia and full membership, I am sure he will raise SNS and Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21478	Mr. Babic, I'm afraid you've been doing a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but let me take a look at that. Please, you have a lot of ways and by hurting the Rules of Procedure, and based on the replica, it was logical to me that it was a replica. Don't put me in a position right now that I'm really breaking the Rules of Procedure, because what you've explained wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but good. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. ) The word has the governor of NBS Jorvanka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21479	First, I'm going to make a principle comment on how long you've been representing an idea. What a quality it is when we measure you and me, for example. As much as you represent an idea of her, you perform at political gatherings, give interviews, is one pair of shoes, which our people would say. But when you're in a position where you're in a position to bring in your own system-editing state, the way it's arranged in that Europe you're looking for and what your strategic goal is. It is a measure of commitment to the European path, i.e. a system-organised state in which a procedure is prescribed to work together by the Ministry of Finance, NBS and the Deposit Insurance Agency, such as they have worked, regardless of whether Lydia Perovic, who has done a lot and worked on these laws, is sitting in the Agency. Whether Mr. Dusan Vujovic is sitting with his team or at the NBS is sitting in Jorvanka Tabakovic, Djordje Jeftic and the rest of the team. We're building a system that doesn't depend on people's names and on who's political option belongs to, but on how sincere they are to prove their words. The law we have proposed to you, the amendment and the additions, arranged by Mr Đurisic, my dear colleague, fully in accordance with the methodological rules that prescribe whether or not and when some law should go as an amendment and supplement or as a new one, and we have not reached that limit of amendments and addition of the Bank Act that would oblige us to go to a whole new law, which does not mean that we will not do a consolidated text and publish in some suitable form of the whole of the law that will enable easy enforcement because it is not our goal to be unreasonable but rather to understand us easily and to apply the law. And two more brief information on conflict of interest and concentration of authority. You know, the NBS last year marked 130 years of existence and is one of the few, but not the only institution of that kind that unites almost all competences and regulatory and supervisory and monetary policy under one roof and has its own specialized section of the issue, printing and making money. We are not the only ones, but we are specific, so we are also experienced that the National Bank has the advantage of having monetary and supervisory functions under one roof, but that they are sufficiently organisationally and hierarchically separated, not to be in conflict with the trust of those who have been technical and expert assistance to us, I am talking about the International Monetary Fund and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as the World Bank, who, knowing the total capacity available to the NBS, will never come into the situation of being the principle of which you said we are both a judge, and a prosecutor, and an enforcer, because it is not our aim to introduce anyone who is not mature to restructure to such a problem. On the contrary, we aim to preserve the public interest in precisely defined steps of preventive action and to keep the risks of irresponsible decisions to those who are the most responsible but without any surprises, but in the precisely prescribed procedure. And having a concentration of authority is simply not true. I think that through an individual debate by concrete members of the law, you will be able to determine for yourself that there is no concentration of authority, but rather the advantage of a rapid reaction by those who are in charge of overseeing and having a control role and to suggest restructuring plans, i.e. taking measures that should allow the lowest cost for Serbian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21480	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21481	Just two brief clarifications and one opinion. So, due to the proper informing of our viewers and to repeat it in front of my colleagues, that is, MPs and colleagues from the National Bank team and the Ministry of Finance. My colleagues from the Ministry of Finance are in the next room working on the amendments, following this on screens, so I'm not referring to ghosts. So your colleague mentioned taking something away. It's about getting back, not taking away. In time, the function of managing actions owned by the state, bank actions owned by the State, is entrusted to the Deposit Insurance Agency, in the new context of the amended role of the responsibility of the Deposit Insurance Agency. That function no longer belongs there and cannot be realized there. That's why she's coming back to the finance ministry. I wish we didn't have that extra responsibility, right and obligation, but it consistently and in accordance with all the other countries in the world returns to the Ministry of Finance as the Ministry responsible for managing that part of state property. So, on this basis, the finance ministry will have to participate in the management of banks in which the state has its actions and will decide what to do with these actions. As you know, last year a country strategy was adopted in which the state believes that the moment the financial sector operates effectively enough, the state should step out of the ownership of actions in commercial banks and leave it to quality management and the market. So this is consistent with our long-term trend. Unfortunately, it can't happen overnight, not one step. This is one of the important steps to get it back to the state first, and then the state manages and gradually emerges from the ownership of state banks. It is also very important to point out that this way changes the quality of all risks management. In this context, the fact that it is regulated, under the auspices, under the roof of the NBS, to be particularly specialised, above all, that a professional body that will look at the situation in banks more than standard monitoring and propose measures of response, restructuring, etc. will, I stress, be separated by the wall from the rest of the National Bank and the National Bank will not have the right to have administrative or otherwise influence on the work of that body except in the part where it will report to the National Bank and all others who are interested, whether by their position in the decision-making system, whether in the situation of individual banks and the proposed measures where the measures that are cheapest and most comprehensive apply, not the measures that are most similar or most convenient or give the best effects to any individual participant in the process or individual owner in that process. So this systematically creates space, as some debaters have noticed before, to avoid risk situations and more importantly, to prevent the risk from being seen only when the damage has already happened. So this should provide an early warning system in the financial sector, and as you know it assumes an extremely good database that only the National Bank has from direct and supervisory on the ground and supervisory data-based data in books and based on extremely professional work of checking, testing models, monitoring developments in the domestic market and in the environment. So a whole series of things that we're seeing today as problems, this new system should notice, escort and predict. Finally, I thank you for the tone and the invitation to constructively solve all things. I'm at a public hearing, I wasn't talking about a public debate, I was just talking about the availability of documents. In other words, the documents are on the site and I think that all of us, like us, are going to the Assembly's site to watch which laws were adopted, what was adopted and what was the final text of the law that was adopted, I think it would also be right to expect all MPs to follow the funds of modern communications and find out what the ministries put on their official websites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21482	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21483	The incompetence of the ruling party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21484	You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's my fellow MP who spoke before me, and it's not about advertising the Rules of Procedure, but a member of the former regime says like this -- I don't know what's called a solution for deposit insurance officials, but I know they're bad. Look, it's no offense to a pretty populist political thoughtless sentence. Also thoughtless -- the ruling party is unable to solve citizens' problems. I can discuss it, but the ruling party has not created problems for the citizens. The problems were created by the former regime, the DS, the parties created by the DS and we as one responsible party do not hide anything from the citizens of Serbia, we will always say which problems we have and who caused these problems, whether someone is ashamed or not, and I am not interested in it at all. Now, when it comes to citizens' problems, it would be much easier for me to solve these problems if only in two banks, the Vojvodina Development Bank and the Agrobanks were not robbed a billion euros. It is a full credit in Swiss francs with citizens of Serbia, and the debt must be paid by the state and it is very difficult for everyone to meet and try to find a solution to these problems. Also, the political party forgets why the debt limit is 45% of GDP, because once you cross that line, you start to borrow more and more to get your old loans back. It would be much easier for the government of the Republic of Serbia to solve citizens' problems if this year it did not have to separate 134 billion dinars for interest that the government did not raise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21486	Mr. Djurishich, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21487	Replica to Mr Babic, Mr Arsic, Mrs Tabakovic, Mr Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21488	You do not have the right to reply to Mr Babic's statement because he has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. As for Mr. Arsic, he only explained that sentence that you really said about the boast and incompetence of the ruling party, but he did not say anything offensive to you. So, on that basis, they wouldn't. I can accept that because you want to clarify some questions with Mrs Tabakovic and Minister Vujovic, well, here's what I'm going to give you the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21489	Thank you, Your Honor. Unfortunately, I did not get the assurance that this principle proposed, that a supervisory authority such as the National Bank, now has an active role in proposing a way to restructure banks, is good. I gave you examples of countries that didn't solve it that way. The minister isn't here right now, but he said and called for this wall that, I don't know what kind of wall, which the specialized body will be separated from the authority of the management of the National Bank. Allow me to suspect that this wall is strong enough to withstand pressure from the National Bank Authority and will be placed objectively in any situation. You said some institutions recommended and commended this model, and we didn't hear what particular institutions did, so we might believe that this new way you're proposing right now is good. You'll let us not be convinced that this is a good enough solution and the best possible solution. So you insist in your discussions that it will not be at all dependent on the policies of the National Bank and the management of the National Bank. If you insist on it so much, let's set it apart so it won't be in the National Bank at all. Let us strengthen the Deposit Insurance Agency and then have it deal with it, and the National Bank performs the function provided for by the Constitution and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21490	Thank you. The word has the governor of the National Bank of Jorvanka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21491	Thank you, Mr. Djurisic, for giving me the opportunity to answer that question specifically, and I owe you one more answer. First, you called on the Irish model. Ireland is the least similar country to ours that we can compare with, because in Ireland all the time, an institution dealing with monetary policy and that institution dealing with supervision is a regulatory body for financial institutions. I had the opportunity to be with someone else from here in 2007 in that institution to see that this is the least similar example of what exists in Serbia. However, countries in which such a solution is represented are European countries, where these duties are assigned to bodies already doing supervisory work, and now bank restructuring - Germany, the Netherlands, Hungary and Croatia. I don't mean to add up, but I don't think these countries deserve that kind of qualification and suspicion in advance. I don't mind if you doubt in advance, but you have no argument to prove that by now a wall called high enough, separate and strong shares of the central bank's two powers in Serbia has been compromised. You may think it's a jargon wall, which is high enough not to interfere with jurisdiction, that there is no conflict of interest, but low enough to exchange information and react as soon as possible. It's a common term used in one roof institutions, but they have to be separated because of specific jobs. The question of yours – what does the National Bank of Serbia do about loans indexed in Swiss francs, I don't know how many times I have to repeat to you and to all those who don't want to hear that the National Bank of Serbia, since I'm in the governor's seat with my team there, doesn't do business in public, does business with all the participants in this business where it is, in the halls where solutions are being negotiated. We had a meeting with the bankers and we have it on February 2nd at 11.00 p.m., the Committee on Risks at the Banks Association, on the operational level, agreeing with banks on concrete solutions. Next week, we're going to go out with some of the solutions that we've published on the principles, not wanting to give someone false hope at any moment that personal and individual decisions can be fully transferred to the risk or cost of anyone else. There is no coercion of issues, by calling out in the media that will allow the National Bank of Serbia to allow itself to engage in a debate that will not benefit anyone. I've very consciously accepted a public opinion that the National Bank is silent, and you know perfectly well that's not true, the National Bank is just doing it in a way that is appropriate to the NBS. I don't mind you calling me Minister. It was probably a lapsus, but you must accept that the work of the National Bank is somewhat more discreet in relation to the affairs of the ministries and you must admit that I, as governor, am indeed acting as governor of the NBS, at no time supporting any group of citizens as in charge, any group of savings in any currency to have that savings, any interest group, not even a state to which it is not of the citizens' interest through the interests of the state, and my colleague Dusan Vujovic can testify. This kind of tolerance for unfounded criticism is, in fact, the responsibility to come up with the best solutions, without creating expectations that we cannot meet because of many circumstances and what is called the Serbian inherited state of lack of money, or that at the moment of promotion of the European path, the advocates of the market economy, we bring any kind of non-market solution, nor will I ever advocate that your cost is paid by someone else or that the cost is paid by someone third. Each of us must make sure that it does not fuel unreal expectations, because it is a responsibility that we all have in front of Serbia's public.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21492	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21493	Dear Mr. Minister, the Honorable Governor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a set of very important laws ahead of us, and at the very beginning of what I have to say, first of all, when it comes to the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Ministry, one small remark to the respected minister, Mr. Vujovic, you have no reason to simply justify things that are deeply correct. What I particularly want to point out is that I'm not someone who likes to praise anything for this pay phone, but the bottom line is that I've always advocated reducing the authority of the agencies, so either that or the Deposit Insurance Agency. Of course, and some other agencies to question. You're the finance minister and you can do it. When the 2015 budget debate was here, I made it clear in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group that it is necessary to review the work of many other agencies and salaries in the same agencies. I have mentioned several times behind this assembly speaker, for example, the Anti-Monopolis Agency, and to strengthen competitiveness, call it what you will, where people have rudely high salaries, where the president of that agency has a salary of 350,000 dinars, and that is why what you are doing today, which is just restoring jurisdiction to the rest of the ministry. Well, who better than the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have the property, which is financial property in banks, and decide when and on what conditions will it possibly be sold? I would remind you that maybe this should have happened before and then maybe some of the mistakes that were happening, which still cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Many here have forgotten the story you might be able to mention about the actions of the Serbian state, for example, in Zagreb Bank? Why didn't she react properly earlier? Here also mentioned "Tesla Banka" and many other banks, and for this reason this is a good thing, that the simple ministry is given clear jurisdiction and clear decisions and ultimately, for those decisions is held accountable. Change of the Public Procurement Act, many colleagues talked about it. I'd like just one thing in particular to mention, which tortures mainly local self-government and local public enterprises, which is that you have companies that simply have found new work, Mr. Minister, which is that they appear professionally in tenders and public procurement. When they lose those tenders, they naturally blackmail, or condition one who is first placed to complain. In this way, an unlimited period of time is delayed by the realization of certain tasks. That's why I'd like you to think about one proposal, which is that a company that complains three times if it's second-placed, third-placed on one of the individual public procurements and never the procurement administration confirms their complaint, simply loses the right to complain more. In this way you can interfere with jobs that can't wait, but simply have to be realised quickly. When it comes to the Bank Liquidation Act, citizens are for a reason concerned every time the banks are liquidated. Dear colleagues here have already talked about some banks, such as Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank. I don't want to repeat myself. I've seen fear in people. To go back to that budget debate again, I asked you -- what will happen to the Serbian Bank? A lot of citizens, and during this winter, they waited there in ranks, standing there, freezing to shut down their accounts. Why was the "Serbian Bank" not treated like some former banks, such as the "Universal Bank" and I think that the "Serbian Bank" citizens who had current accounts were simply exposed to certain additional harassment? As far as the National Bank itself is concerned, there has been a lot of talk here about the control mechanisms of the National Bank, about everything else and what the esteemed governor said she wanted to create a clearly one effective team in the NBS that would be able to make these changes. Me and my colleagues will absolutely support it. What citizens who watch this transmission, above all, is of interest, and that's the security of their bank accounts and the security that doesn't happen to them exactly this situation that we're talking about a hundred times now, and that's what the governor is going to say about people who have, unfortunately, these loans in that Swiss franc, which, with a really huge fear, are waiting for every first one of the next months when these credit wars come to them and whether those wars, I don't know, by 20%, 30% higher as that currency jumps. I agree it's not the NBS who's guilty of why someone took credit in Swiss francs five, six or seven years ago, but the NBS is here and you're here, the esteemed governor, the citizens have chosen you, to try to help the citizens, and on the other hand, I think that in certain statements of people from the Board of Governors, in my opinion, they're overprotecting business banks. That's what I need to draw your attention to. I don't think that's good, because we MPs, too, here I am, one of those, and also citizens who watch this debate with attention, think, sometimes I think the business banks in Serbia behave like, I have to say, little vultures. They charge their services and take from the people any way they get here. This way, all the problems that happen with these loans and the repayment of these loans come as cake cream and there, unfortunately, we all just cry out for that old, good social accounting service, or payment service, which once existed and that you could in a clear and efficient way make payments – pay and control whether anyone paid the contributions and everything else. In the absence of time, I just need to draw your attention, even though my colleagues had already spoken in the previous debate, but this is in the case of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the NBS Act, which is already this member, some colleagues still mentioned it in the afternoon debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21494	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21495	Just 30 seconds, Your Honor. Article 7 and this is the responsibility for the damage suffered by the exercise of the duty laid down by this law. I don't think the definition itself in that last paragraph is the happiest. I've made two amendments to the text itself, so I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, to pay attention to these two amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21496	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21497	The Honorable President of Parliament, the Honorable Governor, the Honorable Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members and colleagues, we have heard from my colleagues, mostly MPs from the opposition, frequent objections repeated from the session to the assembly meeting, which is a permanent emergency procedure for the adoption of the law. Really, we got proposals for seven laws, a change of complete laws, yesterday morning. I'll repeat what my colleagues said. Of course there was no time for serious analysis and serious amendments and additions through amendments and one real approach, where I'm sure, we all know that the goal is to make the most quality proposal. But we are coming into a situation that, after 99% of the laws adopted in this way, it is simply pointless to repeat that same remark, and we are slowly getting used to it being quite normal and it is pointless to give that kind of objection, with respect for the minister, who says – of course we expect you to know new technologies and have computers, you have the Internet and you can access the databases and websites of what the ministries, which is the NBS or the Assembly, but I think it is very important that we respect the procedure and try to hear in the right way Members who quite rightly give that kind of objection. Here, now I have about seven, eight minutes of possible time to analyze seven proposed laws. It's not possible for a minute to seriously say anything about any of these bill proposals. But I'd stick with the essential things we've heard here, fortunately. I am too pleased that for the first time in three years after the government, the ruling majority in this Assembly of Mr. Vujovic heard something that encouraged today, which is that he admits and publicly here says that the Law on Public Procurement, which was so talked about in superlatives, without a shred of willingness to analyse every law in any critical way, including that, since any law, of course, is possible to change for the better. I think that's exactly what this sentence has marked for me today's debate, and I think it's a very important approach, with another valuable attitude, which is very important and that I would analyze through these bill proposals, which is to mention the effect of the laws that we adopt in this assembly. Can we make good enough decisions and work on legal proposals if we really don't have feedback on what we've adopted and what the effects of what we're adopting are? Today we have one example of amendments to the Public Procurement Act, where preferences are reduced from 10%, 15%, 20% for domestic bidders to 5%. I wouldn't go too far into that kind of analysis, but you can make an observation – and, since we heard in the explanation, well, international institutions don't expect us to cross so quickly and so quickly reduce these preferences. We are still going and we are faster than others, again, with the knowledge that, if I am wrong, you will correct me, the strategy says that by the end of the year, changes and amendments to the existing Public Procurement Act should be made. Could we have done it then or made one interstep today, and then the next step by the end of the year, when we are working on changing and supplementing that legal solution, in protecting our economy and our domestic bidders, who are having big problems today on the market. To go back to those effects that are said here in the material, which is one of the arguments for such changes in the Public Procurement Act that the effects on the budget will be 1.5 billion. I wonder – who calculated, in what way and how the methodology that it will precisely be such effects of 1.5 billion, and what guarantees us for such an argument that we will vote on, probably, especially the majority, is that, on Monday, when Minister Vujovic said that we do not have enough capacity in the ministries and that we do not have an analysis of the effects of previous laws, and then how are we going to argue that this is exactly the key argument for the adoption of this law? We were here after this speaker asking questions at the time of Minister Lazar Krstic, when he sat here and explained the law with your great support, about the adoption of so-called. Solidarity tax. We asked the question – what will the effects be, who will answer for these effects of the adopted law? We saw what the effects were. We had to change the law later and give up that solution, as well as get paid and pension cuts. Then we asked the question – let's see what the effects will be and who really answers that kind of proposal in lawmaking? That's why I'm talking about it, of course, not running away from the responsibility and the previous calls of the Assembly and the previous governments, we're working on this very responsibility, together here in the Assembly, to insist that we establish mechanisms where we can credibly discuss the effects of passing laws and ways in which we will be reported with the adoption and care of those who suggest such a thing. I'm sure we'll have more arguments and we'll work much better in these benches. When I mentioned Mr. Minister with this willingness to admit that not all solutions in this Public Procurement Act are ideal, taking into account this domestic experience and the domestic market. So it is not possible to make some solutions that can be most brilliant in the EU and in some other developed countries, but it is simply not possible on our market and therefore it is necessary to discuss in this composition, given the experience of many of us, as well as people who would contribute to the public debate on the creation of this solution and predicting what it can do as effects. We can do that analysis, too. I think it's very important that we talk about this today. Ms. Governor was one of the main creators of the economic offer of the SNS in the 2012 elections and one of the key bids for voters, which supported you, is this very announcement of a new law on public procurement with the announcement that the effects of the law will be savings from 600m to one billion euros in purchases. Is that right? Another key offer, and these were two key offers, was the Office for Quick Answers. We forgot about that a little bit. Although, we didn't see any effects on the office's quick answers, but there were big promises. To go back to the Law on Public Procurement and Effects. In 2012, some 300 billion or 290 billion dinars were placed through public procurement in Serbia, equivalent to about three billion euros, indicatively. You probably have more specific data. In 2013, there were minus 40 billion compared to 2012. That's when we talked and got the information -- that's the effect of saving 300m euros with the adoption of a new law. So there weren't a billion euros, there were 300 million, at least with that interpretation, but when you do a deeper analysis, you see that much less contracts were realised than it was in realisation in 2012. You can't talk about saving then, but you can talk about a lower placement of these planned funds. I think it's important here that in such a way, responsibly and frankly, we talk about it. We'll see the information for 2014 as well. We'll have information and the best data will be exactly the percentages we'll get from these public systems, public enterprises, from budget institutions in the placement of planned investments. If we have three billion planned, I guess, euros in public procurement, if the realisation is 50% of these purchases, I'm not saying that that's it, then we have 1.5 billion less in Serbia's economy and the realization of our services and domestic businesses and domestic producers. I was just saying this because I wanted to point out what your responsibility is in that analysis of the effects of any solution made in this assembly room. The second Deposit Insurance Act, I think there's a key member of the 12th, and that's an increase... He says – The agency determines the rate of regular premium for the following year by 30 September at the latest, so at 0.2% quarterly. This increase should bring effects, even if it is my information, and you will confirm or deny it, of around 80m euros to the National Bank of Serbia. I think it is very important that this kind of analysis is in these turbulent times, especially for the banking sector when responsible people have to take care of every word spoken, especially when it comes to the banking sector in order to preserve this sector and that kind of stability in an unstable environment. I think it is important to talk about the key responsibility of the NBS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Jurisdiction shall also be taken through the amendment of the Act on Ministrys and the appointment of members of the Executive Board and independent members of the Deposit Insurance Agency. Of course, with the experience we had two or three days ago when we saw the relationship between the representatives of this Assembly and the independent institutions who insist on respecting the constitutionality and legality of the work of all our institutions, whatever their name is. I think the representatives of the opposition can ask questions without the right to nervousness and nervous answers, rather than reasoned answers, in which way we will ensure the right independence of these people who will be in such important places and ensure the stability of the banking sector. One question many colleagues in the position mentioned today, which is the status of citizens who have committed themselves by indexing their loans in Swiss francs. I think there's an important responsibility for the governor who's here with us and who's told us she's held a large number of meetings with the representatives of the banks and meetings with the institutions. It seems to me that one statement specifically affected the citizens of these credits who were indexed in Swiss francs, which was mostly talked about institutions and business banks. Mr Jovanovic mentioned earlier that it appears that the banking sector is being protected rather than the citizens of Serbia, and I am sure that your responsibility and your desire to primarily protect 20,000 credit users indexed in Swiss francs. It is important that today you said that you and the public are speaking and working on that solution and talking to banks, with other institutions, going towards that solution, saying and continuing the sentence by contacting you, I would be more pleased, the consumer society and representatives of the users of those loans, to make meetings with these people, to hear what they think about it. I think as MPs, we also want to hear that willingness to hear both sides, and my position is certainly the protection of the citizens of Serbia before the institutions themselves. In the end, one question for the Minister of Economy, we are not against the arrangement with the IMF, far from it, it should mean long-term stability in Serbia, but I think it is important that we get answers to what we are and have taken some commitments that we do not know about so far and that the public in Serbia itself does not know about? Does this set of laws mean preparing to privatise the remaining banks that have the majority state capital, that's still the Post Office and the Commercial Bank? I would not agree with a colleague who said that in the definition of this state management is inefficient, I think that these are banks that work quite successfully and that, with the Circumstance, they have been brought into quite significant challenges by taking over some previous banks, I mean the Post Office. I think it is important to say whether the Serbian government is at the announcements of the prime minister in its exposé that it will privatise Telekom and EPS, that it will privatise the Danube Insurance, that we have taken over the obligations and that with this set of laws we are actually making preparations for the rapid privatisation and these banks that I mentioned today, which are the Commercial Bank and the Post Office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21498	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21499	Privatisation announcement, I'll be quite brief and specific about your questions, if there are any privatisation announcements, and by what happens you think there are but no one has informed you. Because of the public of Serbia and you, the DSS as the headquarters of the coalition received a loan from the World Bank in 2009. The first was 49.5m euros to reduce state participation in the financial sector, both in the banking and insurance sectors, and to exit areas where the shareholder is well-defined by when it is due to happen. So, first you'd have to look at one of those contracts that's been taken over and not done. I'm not going to give a political qualification to what it means for those who did it in 2009 and who didn't. (Goran Ciric, from the post: You said DSS. I'm sorry, DS. Thank you for correcting me. Please simply these official messengers, the international contracts where it stands, you won't find that percentage to reduce the state's participation in the banking and insurance sector because the reasons for getting that loan are, you know where they're written? Just for the sake of the law. You can get that from me, I will personally send it to you, because I am an MP who keeps those papers, and maybe there is Mrs. Comic, because there are nerds in the Assembly who keep everything. What's the big deal? Don't ask me today if there's a commitment because that obligation was established then, and it wasn't done. We are obliged to perform at all costs. How do I prove it to you? The letter that will be signed with the IMF is already in a set of other papers. In that set of papers, a letter was contained that the governor of the NBS, i.e. the government and I agree that none of the measures that will be taken will remain a secret for the Serbian citizens, will stand on the site and the MFF, as well as the Government of the RS. So to repeat, there will be no secrets, no conditions that Serbian citizens will not be familiar with. When you say we should protect the interests of citizens, I just repeat one simple question to everyone -- sorry, if Serbian citizens are just credit users or if they are citizens of Serbia and savings who have savings in these same business banks, because someone wants to plant the thesis that the NBS, members of the Council, is anyone protecting the interests of the banks. In these banks there are also deposits of companies where you work, for example, me and anyone. Many of Serbia's citizens are employed in enterprises whose deposits are seen by their companies in those banks where loans are part of it, a small piece that is not systemically important, but is important for each individual person. That's why we're going to individual problem solving. Don't act like someone who takes care of citizens, but you only look at one citizen who has a loan in Swiss. I owe you, and it wasn't hard for me to learn, because I have three children, so you have three worlds, and you have to love every child even though it's different. I do not find it difficult to look at the situation of depositors, credit users, savings, investors, businesses that should employ new people, states that should bear the cost if any irresponsible statement by the banking sector of Serbia, which is more than 75% in the hands of queens who are not based in Serbia, is the essence of the banking sector here in Serbia. I'm going back to what Mr. Bauer said at the beginning, yes, business symmetry of information, someone knew more someone less, but you can't fight for the individual rights of a citizen who's businessable and you can say – I'm deceived, and then you challenge that same citizen's individual right to solve his individual problem and turn him into a collectiveity. We all need to help, but not so that the selected group that was aware of the risk is less or more, we share it at the currency risk that the citizen entered, the interest risk that the bank entered, and believe that there is the mood of the banks to solve it. You're only faced in public with really sad stories that I'm not easy to hear, because I'm not one of those who gets into one ear and comes out the other, I'm absorbing all the human misfortune, and that's why I'm doing this job. You don't get e-mails, and the NBS cabinet is stifled with e-mails from others who say, "What about our savings, foreign investors, I work at a foreign company, if he doesn't have the support of that bank, and they're tied up, if they leave what happens to me and my children?" This is a solution where they're going to have to give in a little bit each time without someone seeking the responsibility of a third party for a single decision. I don't know why you're asking me that. Maybe you didn't get to see the announcement. There are no newspapers that have not delivered yesterday's statement in which NBS, I sign as governor of a statement that I have written where we say - we do not protect the interests of banks as some imaginary financial institutions, but we are obliged under the law to protect financial stability and we are protecting it from creating stable conditions for bank operations. Someone asked what would happen to the Greek banks if they left? It's up to us to maintain that stability. I am grateful to all of you who understand what the measured word means in a difficult situation, but if someone asks the question today what it means to be a member of 86b, or the responsibility of the governor, the vice governor, and those people who deal with supervisory and control, where we're supposed to be protecting them for the first time in doing our supervisory functions, if working in good faith makes some kind of a failure, so we're asking that they be protected here. Those who don't know, not to say what the real names of those who don't know now want to make a new media boom and say that the National Bank is looking for something for themselves. It's a provision that exists in this law. I was sitting there somewhere when I rebelled against her, protecting Governor Jelasic, then the governor of the resignation, who in 2010 defended the EU standard here in this room, but so badly defined that the Constitutional Court annulled it as an unconstitutional provision. I'll say two words about independence, about the Constitutional Court, but also about myself, but first I have to finish explaining the provisions. Article 86b. Earlier and this one, it's changed in a tiny thing where it's said -- if one who does control and supervisory work makes a failure in good faith. So, not by neglect and carelessness, but by believing he's doing the right thing, he's got protection. However, if a party not disputed with the right to determine that it has been harmed by such an act, by any citizen, proves that it is still a lack of attention or failure, even though the National Bank is protecting its official or the person doing control, it will ask him to retaliately charge and the costs of the defence behind it until the moment until it has proved that he has made a failure in good faith. It is a newspaper in which the NBS respects the EU standard, under which one who works supervisory and goes into control must not tremble at the fact that someone, founded or unfounded, will file a criminal report tomorrow. It's been there since 2010. Now the burden of responsibility of the NBS has been improved, and someone says – see what Jorgenka is doing now. No, Governor Jorgenka. It's a practice of Belgium, Poland, Great Britain. We haven't changed the solution for a single letter, but by respecting the Constitutional Court, which, publicly speaking, has not respected the National Bank enough, so we haven't even had a written insight into the subject of a decision, has annulled this provision. It hasn't even been published yet. But this is an opportunity where, in addition to our responsibility for the supervisory of financial payment institutions and everything we have to do, we have also introduced a provision which, at that time, at the request of international financial institutions, has reached the level of freedom to do its job by inspectors and officials then introduced into the law. But if the Guardian protects the Trustee and the Trustee protects the Protector, if my function is frozen, I make a joke and say, "The Governor has no one to defend." The governor doesn't need a defence, the governor is doing his job legally and in the interest of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21500	Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica. You mentioned the party and then Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21501	I would like to thank the President. Since there have been a lot of words about fulfilled and unfulfilled promises, I must say that if we talk about unfulfilled DS promises, it would take a lot more time than my MP group has. I am also prepared to organise a session of the Assembly to discuss all the unfulfilled promises of the DS. I'll say only two, since Mr. Ciric, too, tried to talk about two fulfilled or unfulfilled promises. I'll talk about 200,000 jobs, how many DS and Boris Tadic promised in 2008, so from 200,000 new jobs, we've reached 400,000 people who have lost their jobs, unless you've thought of all those 200 thousand new jobs in line in the employment service. I will also remind you of 1,000 euros promised per capita, each citizen of the Republic of Serbia, with a clear recognition that all this was done and promised, unreal, but only to win the election and defeat Tomislav Nikolic in 2008. It is true that public procurement and the Law on Public Procurement are a child of the SNS and we are proud of it, as we are proud when we have proposed amendments and additions both in 2010 and 2011, when you did not want to talk about it, let alone discuss it in the National Assembly. It is true that you said that this information is 300m euros in savings, and the data is from the Public Procurement Office, the same public procurement administration, which you have dislocated and transferred there to some sprawl in Ustastanska Street or at the end of Ustastanska Street. The same people work under the law, work properly and honestly. Is it a little 300 million? You're about to understand a good period of time. It is not for a year, but for nine months the law on public procurement applies, as it entered into force on 1 April 2013. Forgive me if I miss, but he started on April 1st. Also, the office for quick answers, “out stop shop, ” why do you mind such an idea that has already come into life...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21502	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21503	... One more sentence which is, and if the question was not addressed to me, but to Mr Vujovic, if you are not against the IMF arrangement, then why did you drive the IMF away in 2011? Then why did you drive him away and present it as a victory for the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21504	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21505	... and defeat us as a society, and now you're not against co-operation with the IMF and you're not against the arrangement with the IMF?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21506	Thank you. The word was sought by Dusan Vujovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kiric? I keep thinking. Article 104(2), you have no right to no replica. Or the president... (Goran Ciric, from the place: He mentioned my name and name. )......................................................................................................... Members' groups. Don't throw it away. I'm going crazy. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Don't give me the word.) It's not a word, it's a replica. (Goran Ciric, from the post: Ask him if he mentioned my name and name. Do I have the right to do something at the meeting? At least for something? Can I read Article 104? (Goran Ciric, from the post: You have the right to give me the word. You're not even funny. It's sad already. It's really sad. If you want to listen to me, if you don't want to, do whatever you want. Make it out of parliament I don't know what, a voluntary singing society. Let him do whatever he wants. Article 104(2), with my best intention, speaks about when political parties are mentioned that the right to replica has the president of the parliamentary group. Some times it happens here to give power. You're neither. Now you do whatever you want, and it's up to me to say that Article 104 is Article 2 and it's up to me to try to run a session, which is constantly arguing with me, and I'm going to fight for it as long as I can fight. With all your respect that you want to answer, I don't know how. I'll give the word to Minister Dr Dusan Vujovic. Maybe he mentions something to you himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21507	Just that, given the direct question about the fund program, I want you to, we've said that before, stress one important thing. First, this fund program, that is, our fund program, the fund program supports our program. That's what I think we managed this time to make it our program to support the fund. Of course, the fund has supplemental demands, expectations and so forth. You'll recognize that our program is because it doesn't look like a standard fund program. It has stabilisation, macro-stabilising, cost and income side. What's not there, he doesn't have a reform of old businesses. It does not have a plan to resolve these companies in a portfolio, or portfolio of the Privatisation Agency. He has no question of resolving large enterprises, such as Smederevo, a chemical complex, etc. As a rule, the Fund's programme does not have programmes for the resolution of public enterprises, so-called public enterprises. a monopoly of natural and legal monopolies, such as "Srbiagas", EPS, Telecom and others. What is new in our program, and besides, the fund, and when it has these structural measures, they are not supported by the details that we will have in the program. Secondly very important, they never had fully paired World Bank structural loans for my 9,000 days of experience in the World Bank to support the reforms of these companies. This is all you're saying, part of it will be in the program, and part of it is being prepared. So we have a very big job to work on, synchronize and stuff. Most of these projects are in the preparation phase, and I expect them to be realised within months of signing an agreement with the fund. Where are we? We make the last details, we meet. Among other things, we made a commitment ourselves that this set of laws, which settles the situation, would be on February 1st. Is it going to be 1 or is it going to be 2 or is it going to be... That's all the little things. We said by the end of January of the month. It's very important that until we hand over the documents to the fund manager's advice, we do so, to find a solution. They even accepted us at that moment to say that we had handed over this set of laws, that we had entered into a debate, for them it was more than a sign that it would be accepted with amendments or no amendments, but the essence of these documents is there, which raises the level of organisation of the financial sector that reduces the risks, which eliminates those problems we had in the past. First of all, they are interested in what is the budget's exposure to potential losses in the financial sector. It's primarily an aspect of the fund. So I think we already have solutions that promise a lot. As for concrete privatisations, we are not going with the programme in which we announce, we are announcing our intentions, we are publishing our principles and saying – the example of "Telecoma", for months there has been an idea in public, published and confirmed, that we want to consider the privatisation of "Telecoma". Why? Several factors: the situation on the market, the lack of huge financial resources to keep Telecom in line with the developments of technology and other people in the world. Therefore, we are now in a phase to call a tender for a Telecom consultant and we expect to get excellent conditions and to privatise "Telecom". It doesn't mean we're gonna sell it for what, last time a privatisation attempt failed, but we're gonna try in this situation to get an integral Telecom, which includes everything, classic telephony, modern cable TV with optical fibers, mobile phone with 4G capacity and everything else that is needed to sell in the best way. We are now told in preliminary talks that Telecom can achieve a price higher than ever before. Of course, the part that owns the state will be sold, not the part that owns small shareholders. So our intention is to take advantage of an appropriate market situation to look for a strategic investor and try to get the best possible price. We also manage similar principles when it comes to privatising the share of the state, i.e. state actions in individual banks. We have a privatisation and withdrawal strategy, as already mentioned here. We won't give up here either, and that's where we'll always try to get the best possible price and the best quality decision-making in the financial sector. That's ours. The state does not want to interfere in making financial decisions, but wants to ensure that the risks that previously existed in the sector are avoided. As far as the EPS is concerned, the first thing about EPS, at the Railways, at the "Serbiagas", is the legal-organisational consolidation of these enterprises, to enter with a clear model of organisation, modern management. The moment they are organized companies that will be more efficient at doing business, whether they will attract additional investments, primarily as a model of capitalisation in fact, not privatisations, or not, it will be a matter of the market, it will be a matter of conditions and everything else. It's also very important, and it's part that's already mentioned in public, but I think I have to point out that with the fund, we have an agreement that all privatisations, the privatisation funds are for partial debt payments, those most expensive debts that burden us the most with the budget, 130 billion are interest in this year's budget, and the completion of those capital projects that give us the highest contribution. It's those projects that have been done for years, and they're not finished. There's no question of consumption. So we can't privatize things without it going into current consumption, because it's not rational. There's a gray case, and it's an investment in human capital, but it's something we can talk about with the consent of international organisations. So principles are important. We can't tell you the right answers now, because no one knows them. That is why we hire advisers, so we want to explore the situation and at some point we will come to parliament, if we need to discuss the privatisation strategy, the strategy of obtaining these resources and the best use of these resources to speed up economic growth and use the opportunity we are going to create, hopefully, through successful fiscal consolidation and maintaining macroeconomic stability in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21508	The People's MP Vera Paunović has the word, and let MP Ivan Karic report.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21509	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, respected ministers, the state in which our banking system has been in place for a long time can be defined as very complex. This is certainly the position of banking under the influence of the many years of economic crisis that is legally being shed from the world’s financial centres and our country, all negatively affecting all three basic types of banking business: loans, deposits and payment intervention. The bankruptcy of four banks has been recorded, creating and multiplying the problems that burden our entire economy and market. The intention of the NBS as a proponent of this package of laws is precisely an attempt to avoid such cases and difficulties in the future or at least mitigate their adverse consequences. The NBS therefore requested that there be wider and stronger powers in the process of controlling the work and business of the banks themselves, but also that this legislative change creates a new one and specifies some old instruments to improve the position of banks that would be in the possible financial problem. In that direction, I think it is good that the Banks Act will now recognise the term "systemically significant bank", such as one that is important for the stability of the entire financial market and for the work of these banks to be given special attention and supervision. The risks to which banks have been exposed so far have been strictly defined through the limits of a certain percentage of capital that could have been engaged on various sides and I think it is good if the National Bank is now entrusted with the right to prescribe those limits as a more flexible solution that will be able to react more quickly to current developments in the financial system. The addition of new members of 36a to 36g introduces a recovery plan institute that must propose a bank that is sub-capitalised and which will be submitted to the National Bank of Serbia on assessment, which should affect more carefully the bank's business. The monitoring of diagnostic testing is foreseen as a type of preventive control to be carried out by the NBS with direct insight into books and other documentation. Members related to corrective and emergency measures that the NBS can impose in the control procedures have been processed, so that they are now more detailedly worked out, and the early intervention measures and the possibility of introducing a temporary administration for a year are foreseen. The majority of these amendments and the addition of the laws relate to the very process of restructuring banks, which are dedicated to as many as 20 new members. The importance of this institute can best be seen from Articles 128a and 128b, which list the outcomes and principles of this process, which are: the achievement of continuity in business, avoidance of negative influences, protection of depositors and clients, that the loss should be borne primarily by bank shareholders, that management members are resolved, as well as other postulates for the conduct of the restructuring process. Article 128e provides for four models for the implementation of this procedure, the sale or transfer of shares, the separation of assets and the distribution of losses to shareholders and creditors who are precisely normised in the further text of the law. As an additional type of protection of shareholders and creditors, an independent assessment of whether the restructuring process would result in significant losses compared to the bankruptcy process is envisaged. A small number of changes include the amendment and addition of the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Most of them are also in line with the proposed amendments to the Law on Banks and the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency and makes one logical continent. I would point out here that it's a good thing that it's recognised to arrange the area of issuing income and numismatic money, because that's how income can be obtained from their sale. The proposal of the Deposit Insurance Act and the Deposit Insurance Agency aim to ensure better functioning and security of funds in this fund, which has recently been significantly exhausted due to the coverage of claims of bank bankruptcy. The new Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation law has introduced certain newspapers in these proceedings for their more efficient implementation and protection of creditors, but also the principle that under the decisions of the National Bank, restructuring attempts will have a championship in relation to bankruptcy and liquidation. The honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group, believe that they amend the existing and proposals for new laws proposed by the NBS, can contribute to a situation in such an important area as to regulate additionally in a good way and avoid the risk of repeating recent bank bankruptcy and thereby further disrupting the stability of the financial system, so they will give their support to these legal proposals in the day to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21510	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. You have six minutes and 11 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21511	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the esteemed governor, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about a slightly different aspect, unfortunately in Serbia there is not much to talk about. I will talk about public procurement through sustainable development and through green and ecological public procurement. I will not enter the polemics that were in the course of today. I just want to tell you that all green parties, environmental organisations and climate change fighters will call on their governments, government, local self-government throughout Europe to stop investing in dirty technologies and stop investing or start investing in dirty technologies and fossil fuels. Green parties across Europe will call, above all, on their governments to pass public procurement laws that do not favour the dirty technologies but precisely created by the environments, conditions for green public procurement that could support the green economy, which could support the circular economy of the environment is said very little in Serbia and of course public procurement that could support the creation of new green jobs. It's going to be the biggest environmental action in the world this year. For this reason, as a representative of the Green Serbs, I use the Assembly's pay phone to direct you, first of all, Mr. Minister, to try to at least a little bit of Serbia's economy green and at least give it some sustainability in the coming period. The state of Serbia is thinking for a reason about saving in public procurement and through public procurement and of course stopping, for a reason we are thinking about stopping corruption in this area which is very susceptible, unfortunately to corruption. Don't have, I say, thinking, Green Serbia supports you in that effort. On the other hand, however, neither parliament as a building nor a parliament as an institution nor as a government, they are still unfortunately not considering sustainability and sustainable development. I have to say that very often in the government and around the government, and this is not just about this government, but about most of the previous governments, the outdated neoliberal economists are sitting, and in the 21st century, we conclude based on what happened, primarily in America, that neoliberal capitalism is almost dead. Unfortunately, these neoliberal economists still have in Serbia do not realize that all investments and acquisitions have forgotten costs, if I may say so, under the terms of the "forgotten costs", which are reflected in environmental pollution, excessive emissions of harmful gases in the atmosphere, losses in agriculture, increasing health costs that do not come into the account of any product in Serbia, or electricity, although I use the logic of a respected governor, whose logic I very much support. Do not let other Serbian citizens not pay for the fact that children in Obrenovac are getting sick because the electricity has no real price and because the electricity industry does not think about protecting the environment and children in Obrenovac who have asthma, bronchitis, have allergic diseases. There are these losses both in agriculture and in phenomena, now we can say the epidemic of severe illnesses. As a representative of the Greens, I'll give you a few examples. Unfortunately, we'll probably agree to that. Our schools use masquerade ovens, our kindergartens use masquerade ovens, our children feed on fast food, full of additives, sugar, food with lots of harmful and transmast and very often pesticide content. It affects their health, and no matter how cheap one supply of fast food can be, there is no excuse to support that public procurement. The buildings in which state institutions are mostly heated on fossil fuels, and we as representatives of state institutions have an obligation to encourage green procurement first. We must begin to repair our environment primarily by repairing ourselves, by warning climate change by starting to behave responsibly. Come on, let's try to give priority to renewable energy sources, let's give instead of roasting on the mule, let's give and choose the pellets, not biomass, with heat pumps, so at least today the heat pumps are so infinite and infinitely cheap energy. They can also be used in the winter and fly. Come on, let's use the solar panels with ice diodes. Come on, let's get organic food and if it's more expensive for a shade because of our kids in kindergartens and kindergartens. And let's support eco-innovation in Serbia because we have very good eco-innovators. Global Divesment Day, meaning that support should be taken away and incentives for harmful purchases should be taken away. Green Serbia will remind you on February 13th and 14th, we think that the time has come for us to support the green economy, green jobs and the circular economy, primarily by changing the Public Procurement Act. She's thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21512	Thank you. The People's MP Nejo Jovanovic has the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21513	I thank the chairman. Dear Governor Mrs Tabakovic, respected ministers, respected representatives of the National Bank and Ministry, given that the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Comrade Dejan Radenkovic, as an authorised representative, has categorically confirmed that the SPS parliamentary group will vote and accept and vote in favour of these laws, I will look back on only one of the sets of these laws, which is the proposal for a law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies and with several extremely well-intentioned suggestions. Considering some of the situations that have been happening so far in practice, considering my professional part of the work in courts, especially in bankruptcy cases. I believe that these well-intentioned suggestions, as well as amendments made by the SPS Group, will contribute to the assessment of their justification and the need to accept it, will make our amendments an integral part of the proposed laws. What's this about? First of all, we socialists come from something that is essential when it comes to bankruptcy. We're starting to protect the trustees and that's what the trustees of all the banks are talking about. It starts with a regional development bank, via Agrobank, to the University of Banks and all other banks in the bankruptcy situation under the regulations that we are discussing today. Why am I saying this? Because often in court practice, trustees are placed in an unequal position, i.e. one is privileged, the other is discriminated against, and we in bankruptcy have one obligation, which is an obligation to respect the above-mentioned basic objective of bankruptcy, because here we must start by having a law on bankruptcy as one framework, and the law we are discussing is a "lek specialis" in relation to this law, because it applies to banks and insurance companies. What is the objective of bankruptcy? Well, that's what the law says, the most favourable collective settlement of creditors by achieving the highest possible value of the creditor, or his assets. How do you achieve it? It is achieved by respecting the principle of bankruptcy. Excessive protection of creditors through collective and proportionate settlement and through one treatment and equality. I have to draw attention to you because I know we're thinking the exact same thing, that these principles have never been respected so far. And I'm looking at it through the prism of a bankruptcy manager when it comes to bank bankruptcy, and that's the Deposit Insurance Agency. The Deposit Insurance Agency should undoubtedly be given an adequate role. In any case, too broad autonomy on the one hand, and on the other hand, very clear and precise competences so that the Agency does not appear as someone who will generate problems during the duration of bankruptcy. And these problems have arisen. And that's not small, I'm confident that you know that, Mr. Minister, because the Agency is the fixator of the problems that have now been conditioned by the Constitutional Court's involvement. Unfortunately, as she said, rightly, Mrs Tabakovic, the Constitutional Court has not yet responded to any problems, which he had to react to and very urgently. Not only when it comes to the National Bank, but when it comes to legal procedures that are systematised by this law. Well, especially, what a role of the Deposit Insurance Agency. I'm just going to remind myself that when it comes to substitution, and there is often a substitution, and that is a very controversial question, Mr. Minister, is a practice when the Deposit Insurance Agency enters the depositor's place to which the secured amount has been paid and thus it enters in fact into the legitimacy of the bankruptcy trustee. But that's not the problem. The problem is that it is primarily charged and is made up together with the cost of bankruptcy significantly before all other creditors. So how are the entire situation going to be monitored by the trustees of the University of Banks, Agrobank, Regional Development Bank and all other creditors? Are they placed in an unequal position with respect to the Deposit Insurance Agency? Well, they did. And that is the big problem of this law, which is so far the legal solutions. I'm convinced that, given this problem, we need to find a solution so that it doesn't happen. Why am I saying this? It is known that commercial banks, in accordance with the deposit insurance law, have the obligation to provide deposits to the Deposit Insurance Agency of natural persons, entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized legal entities, so that the amount secured per depositor represents the amount, as far as I know, until nearly 50,000 euros. I don't know if that's true. Maybe I'm wrong. I think it's true. This amount shall be paid by the Agency in the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation of the bank. And the deposit claim is transferred to the Agency in that case, based on secured deposits. In practice, this situation would not be controversial if the Agency had fully equal treatment with other creditors. But there isn't. She has so far had privileged status, or before all the other creditors charged her claim along with the cost of bankruptcy. What is the status of the creditors in accordance with the provisions of the bankruptcy law? Is the principle of even-moving trustees being violated? Absolutely yes. And this Government of the Republic of Serbia, by all means, must recognize and know that it recognizes, I know that you are taking care of it, this particular problem that arises when it comes to the unequal status of creditors, especially in relation to the Deposit Insurance Agency. That is why the SPS Group supports changes in the case of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, and supports all that is to come out of the problems that so far existed in court practice. The next extremely well-intentioned suggestion is that the Agency is strictly and strictly designated by the Authority, when it comes to its obligation to refute legal transactions and the legal actions of the creditor. Why am I saying this, Mrs. Tabakovic and Mr. Minister? The main role of the bankruptcy manager in the bankruptcy process is to keep the bankruptcy mass, to promote it, to increase it, to take legal and other actions to ensure the sale of the bankruptcy mass in the most favourable way, taking into account the most favourable offer of customers, to achieve the most favourable price, and thus, as effectively as possible, to reconcile the creditors in proportion to their claims. Now we have a situation here that we're in Article 14. The law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies provided for in the right way the Agency's obligation to refute legal actions and jobs, if one trustee is affected but the other is damaged. But, Mr. Minister, let me in the SPS Group, we've looked a little wider and we've come to the realization that there's a problem here, because this norm isn't complete. If only legal affairs and legal actions will be refuted, and if they match one, and they put other creditors in an inferior position, then that's not enough. We need to cover situations where bankruptcy trusts are deliberately damaged, when damage is intentionally done, because in practice we have such situations. Harmful contracts are concluded, so banks are not abolized and amnesty in practice, in law they are, but in practice they are not, and they are not. Sometimes there's intentional damage to the credentials, and we in the bankruptcy law, in Article 122, we have a systematized norm that points to just such a thing as sanctioning the intentional damage of the trustees. I think we've also pointed out to the amendments, and you'll know you're looking at the very problems we're pointing to. I just need to draw attention one more time. When it comes to the Deposit Insurance Agency, it should be said that any form of discrimination is prevented in exactly this way, by systematicising the standards prohibiting discrimination, because the Deposit Insurance Agency has the same claim as other bankruptcy creditors. And it's actually about the part of asking for creditors, who just moved on to another person, with that other person, and that's the Deposit Insurance Agency, charging his claim primarily to the burden of bankruptcy. Now the question arises – why on the burden of bankruptcy if we have a fund? Well, he's supposed to be on the trust's burden, not on the burden of bankruptcy. Why are we reducing bankruptcy? Why are we making it impossible for the trustees to settle their claims from that bankruptcy? Of course, this is in no way a criticism. This is the most well-intentioned, this is an honest approach, with the maximum support of all the efforts made by the NBS, all the efforts made by the Ministry, all the efforts made by the Government of the RS, everything that we have contributed to a good bankruptcy law that has recently been adopted here, and in which way we have provided investors to enter Serbia, to invest with a certain, not small, but an extremely large degree of legal certainty in relation to what was before and now it is time to intervene in this law in a way that implies and protects creditors, and at the same time protection of investors. That is why Mrs Tabakovic and Mr Minister, the SPS Parliamentary Group gives unreserved support to these proposed laws, this set of laws, of course, of the belief that you will accept the extremely well-intentioned suggestions that I have highlighted on behalf of the SPS Group, and as our esteemed second Dejan Radenkovic said, given that we really want to be truly honest not only on the pro-European path, but on that path to reach the final goal, which is to enter that door where Europe expects us, and that is to become a permanent member of the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21514	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. You know, four minutes and two seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21515	Thank you. A law that I will try to explain to deserve your attention, as far as the Agency is concerned. Basically, what is this law about? About regulation establishing a mechanism, that if you're called Marijan Maric it's your stake in dinars or euros or francs safe, if you have public money there, that's for sure, if you have profits there, that's for sure, because there's a state that will control it and assess the risks and repair the damage. It's a system of control that we all have to trust. What does it look like when there's no control? It's the '90s when they steal your foreign exchange savings, when we rob all of us with hyperinflation, when the state supports pyramid banks, when you let some people make money by exchange rate, when there's no money in banks, when you go into banks for years and you ask -- do you have money? Because banks aren't liquid. In those years, I heard four people talking about control and the public. These people were: Dragoslav Avramovic, governor of the National Bank, Bosko Perošević, president of the Vojvodina Executive Council, Milan Beko Federal Minister, Jorvanka Tabakovic, Republic Minister for Business and Privatisation. Our value systems differed, but I've always had a sharp enough ear to hear them talk about control and the public, because that's the key problem we're still dealing with. Why and in what way do I now believe that the amendments to the Agency's Law will destroy the little control we have achieved? I understand the reasons why these changes are complemented and understood and the circumstances in which they are brought and having experience of careful reading and regulations and careful looking at behavior and in situations where there are mechanisms of control to keep my money safe and when they are gone, I'm saying this is not going to be good for you. A game with independent board members can pass, because it has a majority but will not give good consequences. I'm asking you to think about it, that in a situation where the government changes the Ministry Act, because it was the government that controlled it so it didn't work, so it came out, so she went into the Agency, and she said, "It's no good when the Agency works, so we'll go back to the Ministry, and then we'll go out again, and she'll show you what you need to be to cheat on people in the system where there's control." In the '90s, all you had to do was to have no control, to have unlimited power. Now, real con artists aren't in Serbia and they have to have finished Harvard, Mit, Winston, Oxford so they can really cheat. This and all of them are on your hands. I will, when I discuss the amendments, explain in detail why I believe that no solution from the agency and the law and that it is better to put aside the Agency's law in full, rather than in this way create a huge space for real frauds, not for those whose lack of control for 10 years in Serbia has allowed them to do whatever they want and to rob people and destroy everything that looked like a healthy financial system. I would ask you to listen very carefully to each other in the course of the amendment debate, because I think we share a common goal, which is to explain at the end of this debate how the early warning system for risks here will be realized when no one knows from various experts from Harvard, Cambridge, Mit and Princeton, to warn us about the night the Swiss jumped. Serbia is late enough to allow itself not to repeat others' mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21516	Time. The word is from Governor Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21517	I'll comment on this very briefly, someone might call it doubt in advance, which Mrs. Komic has, and I'd call her a doubt from experience and I'd say in the verse of a song – once your heart breaks, you don't trust anyone. Or what Oscar Wilde would say – people tend to call their mistakes an experience. By pointing out that this law has worked as a legal team from the NBS, from the Ministry of Finance, the Deposit Insurance Agency with professional and expert assistance, but not with orders and not with the silent acceptance of any advice, I am already giving you a guarantee that this can be just a song and that you have no reason, even though they broke your heart those young, professional from, not just you, but all of us, that you really have a lot of reason to believe in some new, young, and old experienced people who don't, and I'm picking myself up on them, who won't allow that mistake to be called control and to be deceived once again, because we don't really have rights anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21518	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21519	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed Governor Tabakovic, Mr. Vujovic, fellow MPs, so I might be referring to this discussion by the governor, if it were not just a suspicion from experience. You know, someone has real experience. My real experience in 2006 to 2011 as regards housing credit in Switzerland and believe me, this loan return was 20% higher on exchange rate differences plus 56% paid off with a 100% war increase in dinar equivalent. At the time, there was no media to report so loudly that they said that the depositors were at risk because that's when the real estate market stopped. Now, that's the result of an irresponsible policy, and what we're talking about since the formation of the government on April 27th when Prime Minister Vukic said at the exhibition that the need to simply start the economy thanks to the fact that you will single out these irrevocable claims and the responsibility of a political party that came out in the elections and told the people that the situation in finance is disastrous. We are the only state in this banking sector that has allowed ourselves to carry out financial separation over eight years, not only of the financial system, but of the monetary system. That's all the consequences now. It is up to us to form a new government that solves the problems that remain behind us, and the problems have simply shown that by breaking up in the previous eight years, or 12 years by 2012, some irresponsible people, not only in the political places that have sat down, but also taking up responsible positions in the banks that the state had participated in, were giving large loans without certain guarantees, and were transferring their commitments to Serbia's budget. Serbia's budget, based on non-real revenues from the economy, is in debt and has made it up to 8% year-on-year in debt. When we came to simply having to solve, not just the financial system to form and establish certain discipline, we came to the need for economic reforms. These reforms are simply not just the Law on Planning and Construction and they are not only the Labour Act and they are not only the Law on Privatisation, but also the laws that involve the regulation of the monetary and fiscal policies of the Republic of Serbia. We've come up with a budget according to the new budget system law. We have passed laws here in the Assembly that need to open this investment environment and the permits and foreign and domestic investors to operate here under the same conditions, if not better or perhaps a little worse than it does in the surrounding countries, and also those that work when we talk about countries that are underdeveloped, or less developed, EU countries. Now that we're talking about the set of laws that we're being proposed, we can say that this set needs to be regulated by the financial system and it's good that there's a connection between the NBS and the understanding and the Ministry of Finance and I don't see that there's some takeover of jurisdiction, but there's simply a definition of precise jobs through certain NBS powers, but also the Ministry of Finance. What is even more important is that the protection of public interest today shows a higher quality of the financial system in society at all. How? So far, the signs of our savings have been practically protected at that level of up to 50,000 euros and there has always been some fear if there is a problem in the financial market when banks are afraid of certain changes, they will pay you exclusively that deposit up to 50,000. Somehow, the savings were always going to save in this domain, and not only did there be reduced supply and demand for financial needs, or bank operations, there was some way of depleting the entire capital market. I'll remind you that as a state, we are committed to opening certain chapters. One of the first adopted by this Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, is Chapter 32. It's a chapter relating to financial control. We want to join the European Union in open negotiations on this issue, and then we need to apply, i.e. to bring all our business and governance and monetary and fiscal policies into line with these directives. So we have also come to the conclusion that public procurement, which we are talking about today and this controversial article 86, simply brings us a directive that says that what we have called as support, subsidies through certain weighting in the procurement of domestic companies, where we help 10% to 15%, in this part we reduce to 5%. For what? Because this directive says - express your help through the price, that is, through the offer itself, and that price has some numerical value. So she's expressing herself in dinars. As a result, Mr Vujovic says that in certain budget items, this represents much greater budget spending and simply comes into the situation that by transposing such directives, we are making much more costs than we should. That is exactly why such a member in 86 is given practical supervision to the National Bank of Serbia, but costs are reduced when we talk about the budget itself. When we talk at all about the effects of the Public Procurement Act, we heard here from colleagues from opposition parties that in that numerical part it appears to be as if they were minor effects. They may be smaller, but the characteristic that a smaller number of contracts is not the relevant feature which makes it necessary to restore the law as it was. Why? Because the number of contracts shows that there are no more small purchases, no more bypassing the Public Procurement Act, but it strictly respects what is simply made in accordance with European standards, that small procurements will no longer occur at all by two to three companies, but it raises that level of standards relating to the countries of the European Union which say that the average reporting of companies to public procurement is between 7 and 8. Therefore, all this shows that Serbia's progress on monetary policy and policy in general regarding the creation of a new budget, or so-called budget, is heading towards development. What should be commended is that the mechanisms of absorbing the losses that have been given here practically through these legislative proposals and the introduction of a special unit to deal with this is a good solution. Why? Because both the IBRD and the World Bank have their so-called mentors who have always followed their clients from the start when certain clients have problems, not letting them fall in their business. Such a model was applied by the National Bank of Serbia. So it gives one unit that's going to follow it from the beginning, but it separates, as you say, like a Chinese wall practically works that will give effect to such a business. There really should be a simple distance between who projects business from whoever controls it and it's as simple as your engineering business. A designer when designing a particular facility can't perform these works, but he can be in that part of the control, that is, auditing the whole job. What is still to be commended is that the instruments that are given go in favour of protecting shareholders and creditors for 100%, and they refer to when talking about banks selling shares of assets and liabilities, when talking about transferring actions that are one of the instruments, as well as when talking about write-offs and debt conversion. So these are all precisely defined instruments that have been known to date in the operations of other central banks of developed economies. What appears as a very positive effect in the National Bank Act is that people who are really going to do it should be licensed. Practically, a much greater number of monitoring and handling measures should be included. Why? Because so far the NBS has not always been able to react when economic operators have been damaged in various bank frauds. It simply had to wait in some way how the court would plead on certain proposals and pass days and years and pass problems, the growing and higher costs are coming, the economic operators were practically completely destroyed, and the National Bank could not respond adequately. Now these solutions and the application of the European Directives and the direct transposition are given the possibility that the National Bank can, at that initial moment, when simply the bank can come out of legal solutions, react and return things to legal flows. What we should also finally praise is that, when we talk about public procurement, this liberalisation of the market is being introduced, but somewhere we have all forgotten, and we are also members of the Committee on European Integration and Foreign Affairs, that we are signatories and practical implementation have had an EU Association and Stabilisation Agreement since 1.9.2013 and that, in practice, this directive obliges us to apply them strictly. What is important, by the end of 2018, all the appropriations coming from the budget in the form of subsidies will simply be imposed on us that they cannot exist. By that year 2018, which we have committed to implement the SAA, we are coming into a situation that is simply gradually, step by step, preparing our economy for a moment when more states will not be able to pay any budget assistance. That is why we say a much better quality system of finance is obtained by introducing such a directive. It is a good thing that these obligations now apply not only to the republican level of government but also to local self-government. They must prepare to learn, just as all the republican authorities are learning and adapting to new European directives and their budgets must adapt to the programming budgets and that is what shows that indeed this government is turned to essential reforms, according to Minister Vujovic, in depth. This is why we are talking about today that we simply don't have a step back and we can no longer stop the changes we are projecting for the future, which will take us where we have drawn up, where citizens of Serbia in the last year over 50% gave agreement to both Mr. Vukic and SNS, and therefore in the voting day we will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21520	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21521	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Governor Tabakovic, respected Minister Vujovic, respected representatives of the Serbian government, respected fellow MPs, I will pay the most attention today to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. By modifying Article 86, we have almost leveled the conditions for participation in tenders between foreign and domestic bidders. It doesn't change anything for me personally. Even this 5% could have been to be completely equal to our own and foreign bidders. For me, it is a question of criteria, i.e. such criteria, that our companies, especially in the area of construction, cannot participate at all in certain tenders, but when they are already participating, then the price is not important, so that these 5% can also be a condition when it is the most economically favourable offer, to be the same. I think we need to keep a little bit more accounts, we know what our construction industry is in, that these criteria are prescribed by specific state-owned enterprises and ministries, downgraded so that our construction industry can be a business operator, not just a subcontractor on a project. I'll give you an example of a road company. If we know that we have companies from Bulgaria, Greece, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the Czech Republic, so these companies certainly received references in their countries when they worked the roads and certainly there were criteria such that they could get jobs there. If we finish the Corridor and the roads now, what company will have the reference to continue to participate in the tender, to get jobs not only with us but abroad? Therefore, Minister, as I just heard from you and Mr Arsic that the task force is preparing to amend the Public Procurement Act, consider this so that we can put this fallen construction industry on our feet. Also, for example, our building minister puts in some white and black sheets. I saw a blacklisted company there, and she's doing construction work in Asia and Africa. Well, I wonder if the company will still be able to continue work in those countries if they see that it is on the blacklist in its country? So we need to take a little more care of our businesses and develop our industry. But since you said we're changing this member and there's going to be savings in the budget, we're certainly, and I as an MP and my parliamentary group, we're going to support this law. As you said there would be a change and the task force would work, I'd look back at a few more members of the Public Procurement Act, so that we could fix it and actually make savings and that our businesses could be competitive with foreign bidders. Here, for example, in Article 77. The public procurement law, point 2 of point 2 of point 2 of point 2 of point 2 of the statement of proof of professional references, which follows the list of the most important works carried out, i.e. goods delivered or services provided. In current practice, Ministers, for the fulfillment of these conditions has been asked by bidders in most cases of investor confirmation, which sometimes could not be obtained for 15 days or more. It is noted that under the Public Procurement Authority Regulation on additional conditions, there is no doubt, since only the way in which basic conditions are met is specified, while for further information, I quote - the fulfilment of the additional conditions laid down in Article 76 of the Law is demonstrated through public documents, as well as in some other way in accordance with the law. Our proposal is to confirm the works carried out so that they are issued after the completion of the works and are valid until the expiry of the guarantee period under contract, during which period would be valid for participation in the tender, and that after the expiry of the guarantee period, a permanent confirmation would always be issued that would be used for participation in the tender. So, to clarify, it happens that some company, some company, is participating in 20 or 30 tenders, may get one, two or none, but it has to get 30 of the same confirmations to get the same facility, which is a burden for a given company, and it represents for us in local self-governments, as well as for the ministries that issue those same certificates, only in the second form. That is why this change should determine it. Also, it's a good thing the governor's here today, the problems with the bank guarantees. The problems of bank guarantees also pressure the weakened construction industry anyway. In order to provide a bank guarantee or a letter of intent to participate in any tender, so-called ‘bank’ is made. the framework credits, which are updated with banks and which are intended only for that purpose. At the same time, these bank guarantees and the letter of intent are without reason burdening the company's financial indicators, and companies are being placed in an unequal position, e.g. Newly-opened companies or companies that had no major traffic have better financial indicators than companies that were burdened with bank guarantees and letters of intent to participate in tenders, without ever taking any credit for business in banks, have already done business with their own resources. Also, these companies are placed in an unequal position with foreign companies, not to mention the costs that banks charge, on average 0.4% for processing, 0.4% for issuing guarantees, and then going 0.4% quarterly for maintaining guarantees until its validity. My experience shows that, for example, For the maintenance, i.e. for the payment of guarantees, the average firm which annually makes traffic around one billion dinars around the bank pays 15 to 20 million just for the service of these papers, although it never took a single dinar of credit from the bank. My proposal is to amend the Regulation of the Public Procurement Board and Article 12, as well as the Public Procurement Act and lay down a provision for participation in public procurement to be prescribed that for participation in tenders for good performance and for the removal of errors in a guaranteed period it is prescribed that an entity may issue bonds rather than guarantees of a bank, and that an advance payment, i.e. to receive advances is subject to the mandatory guarantee of a bank, because it is a financial asset. Also, the governor said earlier that when it comes to the negotiation process, that there is approximately a four-eyed negotiation and that there is corruption at the most. Here, from experience, I'm telling you that there are no designers, no engineers who can make such a project, especially in the construction of objects, that no subsequent work afterwards appears. We know what kind of problems we have and how many days it takes for the Public Procurement Administration to respond to these subsequent works. In my opinion, the negotiation process in construction is not done in four eyes. This responsible contractor, who has a licence, makes an analysis of the price, responsible designer that the green light that really these works are not included in the diameter and pre-account, and then the investor and the supervisory authority, who also have the responsible performers, are checking out those allegations, prices and whether these works are really done or should be performed and given the green light. I don't see any reason why many of the facilities in Serbia are standing because the Public Procurement Administration won't be able to respond within five or ten days how to continue these works. I'm going to tell you that in several local self-governments I've checked, there are already about 20 court disputes somewhere, where performers are trying to collect their works, because they can't get a contract, or they didn't get an answer for the negotiation process. This is particularly true, as I said, for buildings that are in reconstruction, or for buildings where any construction works are done to repair or repair these objects. Also, this is what I want to say about the Public Procurement Act, that there are also problems with the Library on Public Procurement, that there are problems in health care. Also, we have a problem with the list of bidders. Based on all the provisions, the government should have set up, this specifically refers to municipal enterprises, that the government gives us a list of municipal enterprises that are the founder of government or local self-government, which may be on the list and are not subject to the Public Procurement Act. Such a list, here, for six months, hasn't come out yet. Then we have a situation where our utility companies, which are 100 percent property of local self-government, can't give jobs because performers who are low-priced and not good quality, are doing our jobs. Then these utility companies keep us working, and then there is a problem that these works, or services, are unquality. One more thing to say, the minister just said that the ministries need to strengthen their personnel, bring people in. I've seen the contract that the Ministry makes with the performers. There's a governor who knows. It says – 25% advance, 30% will be paid to the performer within 45 days of the day of reception of the emergency situation and delivery of the bank guarantee. If we say advance, we all know here that advances and advances are given on the day of the advance. Do you think it's an advance if it's paid after 45 days? It's not. That's why I'm asking you not to get these kind of contracts in the departments. We really need to get contracts that are legal. In my opinion, it's not an advance if you pay in 45 days. That is why I agree that our ministries are constantly strengthened in the personnel and that these situations are not repeated. Please make some of these remarks to the task force and really when we talk about amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement, we include this, not only this, but other things that are holding back, and in order to better carry out the work, in order to maintain our construction industry and to save the budget. As I said, our MP group will support a whole set of laws and I thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21522	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21523	Ladies and gentlemen, the laws we're discussing today are actually part of the set concerning the fiscal sector. If you look at this financial sector that we're talking about today, we're essentially talking about the Banks Act, and that's the crucial law we're discussing today. All other laws are in the package and follow that law. Why are we discussing this set of laws today? Because practice in the banking sector in Serbia has shown over the past two years that something is not working. On the first of September 2010, we adopted a similar package of laws and discussed since then that Serbia must prevent the problems that will arise in the economic crisis that began to occur in 2008. After two years, we realized that we didn't exactly have the most express and secure banking sector, and that's why we made that set of laws. What did we figure out in two years? That we have to completely change all the laws. We're not in a position to change them anymore, we've already brought new ones. Today when we discuss the banking sector, trust is the essence of the banking sector. It is a key product that banks sell, and everything else, fiscal derivatives, everything that is related to the functioning of banks with an economy and a population comes from that trust. In Serbia, as in the world, there is a belief that the banking sector is linked to the economic elite, that there are a number of regulatory bodies and a state administration that clearly and precisely define the functioning of the sector. It's becoming completely unclear how we get into a situation where both Serbia and the world have problems in the banking sector and, of course, the banks are going down and they're going down, maybe today some bank is going down on the global market and it's going down, and there's no more important regulation that could prevent it. The problem of bank functioning and collapse comes down to bad business decisions made in these banks. Bad business decisions are made by managers of these banks. Edit Peroz also found that every company is working badly because it is poor management, and in the banking sector it is not different, it is not different in the banking sector in Serbia either. In the last three years, one after another, five banks have gone missing. Five banks that have experienced their end and the question is whether this is the end of the problem in the banking sector. These problems in the banking sector cost the state of Serbia, the budget of the Serbian state, citizens of Serbia's state paying taxes of 250m euros in the Deposit Insurance Agency, 145m euros in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 200m in the World Bank. Those funds aren't all spent. Some are, but all these resources are there to remove the problems that can arise in a future period of time and that have arisen in the past. When we try to change these laws today, we will change them for sure, we actually want to change the mechanism of functioning and that some institutions, which have proven not well enough in the previous period of time, are virtually exempt from one part of the jurisdiction and are entrusted with other institutions that we believe will strengthen the population and economy sector and allow it to function on more efficient, clearer and transparent principles in very complicated and complex relations with the banking sector. A major economic crisis has been going on since 2008. There's no indication it's about to end. Today we attend a great currency tension. In Serbia, as usual, when serious changes occur, we look on the sidelines, entertained by our torment, not realizing how much these changes in the global financial market will cause earthquakes that could affect Serbia in some future time period. Serbian monetary policy, the Serbian banking sector is only part of but a small part of the global economic system and must be kept in mind that change and the consequences of the crisis and turbulence have consequences for the Serbian financial sector, monetary policy and the banking sector. What is crucial, in my opinion, is that the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance should work in the next period of time is that clearly and transparently, based on the perception of events, they predict and that no surprises occur in Serbia in the sphere of banking, monetary policy and the functioning of the financial sector. Any unpleasant surprise violates the essence of the financial sector's functioning, which is trust. It's the end of the day, we've heard too much today about the functioning of the banking system. After the governor and the finance minister, it's hard to say anything new. I would like to support the chairman of the Committee on the Budget of Mr. Arsic and to say that, yes, the Public Procurement Act, Mr. Minister, is good and it works. Without the changes we are going to discuss today, which we are discussing today, he has made important changes in the functioning of public procurement in the state of Serbia. The problems that arise stem from the inability of the people involved in public procurement in the company stem from their incomparability in function and their evil intentions, so to speak, corrupt mechanisms. You know what? The public procurement plan defines everything. If you have a team of people in your company, in the public sector, which at the beginning of the year predicts all possible consequences, you have no problems in the functioning of this Public Procurement Act. This law, this little change you're proposing, is actually an anti-monopol law, small, irrelevant. You say, yes, we will no longer grant subsidies to an inappropriate part of the company, no matter what it is, although it ranges from 5% to 15% because it costs the taxpayers of the Serbian state. It can't do that. Never have such measures contributed to strengthening the economy in any country, so it will not contribute to Serbia, and certainly this measure contributes to savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is a great pleasure when a law comes to the National Assembly that comes from the Ministry of Finance, or Government, of the National Bank. This speaks of the team's work of the two key financial institutions in Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will support these fundamental changes, but it is certainly at the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank that in the next period of time what has been voted by the Republic Assembly implements and that you show that you continue to have a difficult, difficult way of reform in the areas of finance, monetary and fiscal, and continue to do as well as you have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21524	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Minister Vujovic and the Honorable Mrs Tabakovic, today we are discussing in a united debate on seven draft laws and I would like to use my five minutes to direct a review, first of all, to the promoters, gentlemen. To start with the draft law supplementing the Ministry Act and there is criticism, above all, addressed to Minister Vujovic. I have one observation, one comment, and I would like to ask Mr Vujovic to comment on this criticism. So, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, we passed the Ministry Act here in this Assembly in late April 2014. As I see our legislative work, the seat of the Assembly in our constitutional system, the Ministerial Law, Mr Vujovic, was the basis for the law for this Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposal to supplement the Ministry Act, which we are discussing here today, is for me a kind of sign of the government's serious climate. How unstable the government is to testify that the law, which defines the composition, structure, competences by the ministries of the government, could not endure a year without changing. Now I wonder how that, then does that mean that the people in that government who made it didn't have a clear, precise, firm plan of what that government was going to do in the coming years. When I add that to the first line of reasoning, it seems to me that then this picture of a disoriented government becomes quite clear. Just to remind you, Mr Vujovic, the first sentence in the reasons for the law being passed – the reasons for the adoption of the Act supplementing the Ministry Act regarding the expected adoption of the first law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. What do I conclude now? We have one valid law, it's the Ministry Act, it's changing, and in reasons it's changing because of an unexpected change in another law. So by justifying the government's law, the government's actions, we tie its structures to the expected changes of another law. Mr Vujovicu, it seems to me like if we were to adapt the constitution to a regulation or law. So something that's a lower level, by the way. I don't think it's right to do that. Mr Vujovic, may I remind you, when we adopted this Law on the Ministry here, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted many amendments, we have proposed our concept of the government with nine ministries and the Prime Minister and that you adopted, for example. Our concept wouldn't need to talk about these changes today. I just want to say if something was missed to do good, if it was a mistake to come here first and say it - we were wrong, and then to tell the MPs - let's work together to make the changes so that we can act better. For Mrs Tabakovic, I also have one criticism. We saw each other here less than a month ago, on January 28th, they were accepted into our Assembly of Proposals for four laws prepared by the Government, and on January 20th and two draft laws by the NBS. I am surprised at Governor Tabakovic, and I must say, which, explaining the urgency of the proceedings and the unification of the debate this morning, I listened carefully to your presentation, wrote down, about seven draft laws at one point, claiming that it was a package of mutually conditioned solutions and therefore it is okay that MPs no longer have time to read, but that they should adopt it quickly, and 20 January it arrived here. Wait, Mrs. Tabakovic, you said today that the NBS site was set up in December, but then you said it was a matter of an MP running around, looking for drafts and bill proposals and who wanted and had time could. So, I am now supposed to be able to see where the law, the proposal, the draft instead of the next principles of our constitutional system, that the MPs who, according to Article 99 of Tabakovic, choose, resolve Governor NBS are the first to get it. Our response to these failures is 186 amendments to the members of these seven draft laws, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21526	The word has a minister, Vujovic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: You didn't have time to read and you submitted 186 amendments. ) (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Mrs Tabakovic could not read these two draft laws... Please don't throw it away. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: I just don't make sense. ) The word has Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21527	I have a few things to mention. First, I think that for any discussion in parliament, we must all have a responsibility for the public statement and that I want it to happen at any moment. Secondly, I don't think there's any reason to spread logical conclusions, especially when they're not based on the proposed text of amendments and addition of laws, on some conclusions that absolutely don't apply to this. So I don't want to comment on your conclusions, your performances of nocturnality or anything. Third, this is exactly a sign that the government has a firm plan and that it has to dynamically adapt things. Allow me, we couldn't legally in the Ministry Act to give that post to the Ministry of Finance where it belongs since it was then in the Deposit Insurance Agency. The same function would be assigned to two institutions. This is how we fix the mistake. Someone has delegated that function to a place where it shouldn't be, after six months of working and adapting the task force has proposed draft laws, not the Ministry of Finance. It is proposed that the new function of the Deposit Insurance Agency be adapted to standards in Europe and the world, and that it has a superior function of optimal management of the Deposit Insurance Fund, rather than by assuming an unauthorized function of government property management, for which the Government normally corresponds under the Constitution and the Ministry Act to this people. So this is just going back to a solution that's co-existent. Add one sentence, not even a sentence, but part of a sentence, in the Ministry of Finance Act, where the Ministry of Finance is given jurisdiction to manage the actions of the Serbian state in banks and dispose of those actions. suggests, and the government decides to have these actions is a completely logical and normal solution. Otherwise, the Ministry of Finance could not have the responsibility, and therefore no one in the Government can have the responsibility. Why is that connected? Only because the Deposit Insurance Act, i.e. the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, proposes changes that exempt that function from the competence of the Deposit Insurance Agency. She has to be allocated somewhere. So this is a sequence, not a level of significance. This is the consequence. If someone left something behind, then someone else has to take it. Therefore, the Deposit Insurance Agency Act has removed responsibility from the agency for managing Serbia's state actions in commercial banks, and the function has been transferred to the finance ministry, which is through the Ministry Act. I want to make it very clear that this is no mistake, and today I can tell you that we will expect a whole series of laws that will be linked to the change in legal status, the reorganisation, the restructuring of public enterprises. If someone tells me today that all these amendments to the laws that will be in front of you, which are the result of one co-existent planned activity to bring this economy into order, to be transparent, acceptable to investors, successful, etc., if you consider it inconsistencies, then something is wrong. Then we don't understand each other. We know what the principle solutions will be, but we cannot advance those solutions until we come into the situation and in the privatisation of Telekom, and in the reorganisation of EPS, "Srbigas", "The Railway", etc. You will have the right and opportunity to decide when the time is mature, when the proposals are on the table and when the proposals are worked out together with international financial organisations, with consulting firms that know the profession in these sectors and with solutions that will make the Republic of Serbia better use of resources, greater efficiency and a situation where the largest ones with billions of euros will have the value of the natural and state resources of the state of Serbia, as we are now showing. The dividends of November, January and February are more than the previous periods. We therefore expect that this will only grow in the future and that this will be a real indicator of the success of restructuring these companies. As for other objections and suggestions, I would like to ask my colleague Tabakovic to respond. Our collegiation when preparing this set of laws is obvious, but that she still has a chance to speak her word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21528	The word is Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21529	All the questions asked by the esteemed Mr Pavicevic have already received answers on several occasions. I'm sorry, I didn't follow if you were here or were absent, but we answered all the questions concerning the united debates and the need to formally deliver to the 18th and 20th Assembly, respectively, when the Ministry delivered a public hearing to the extent possible. Indeed, I can only thank everyone for the constructive debate and to be proud of how specific some MPs are, with what seriousness they have come to this topic and I expect us to continue to do this in the debate in particular. All the questions we haven't answered today, and it's being raised as an open question, we still have room to keep working from Monday, and you can count on the same as today in this fine and constructive atmosphere that we're going to continue to do. I can only thank everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21530	Last speaker, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. I don't know why. Replication and dialogue or discussion of different things. The replica is to answer something that exists in Article 104 and the minister has answered your questions. Jorgenka Tabakovic, the governor, said she had already answered all of your questions in earlier exhibitions. So, the word is Marian Risticevic. And you, when you meet the requirements of Article 104 to replicate someone's exposure, as you know, I'm very happy to give you a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, of course, support these bill proposals by saying something about banks and public procurement, given that this is the subject of the agenda. As our banks did business during the former regime, we went well and well, especially these state-owned banks. Those who, by privatising their entire social capital, have moved into their pockets to banks with state capital. So the winners of the transition were emptying these banks, so I asked myself justifiably - which side of the counter are actually robbing banks? As much as I've seen on the "Agobank" and on the Vojvodine Development Bank, mostly, and some other banks, it's mostly being robbed on the inside of the counter. So the capital was leaving, that part of the state capital was going towards those winners of the transition who were otherwise the winners of the transition when everything that was popular, everything that was social, became theirs. A few families began to control great wealth. Then, of course, it came to the fact that someone had to pay the bill, and then those who had been robbed in transition by taking away the social capital, which was theirs, so that it would become the property of several who, even though the winners of the transition, even the yachts they bought thanks to business with the state, thanks to privatisations, were not registered in this country, in this country, but they put it under some Maldives, where, together with former regime members, they were scrambling, biting lobsters, etc. They were mostly the winners who pulled capital out of the banks again. That million-dollar profit was paid by the poored millions. So, those who our people say have nothing to bite them for, they had to go through the Bank's Banking and Recovery Agency to pay for all debts and all the funds that were pumped out of banks with state capital during the rule of the former regime. It's mostly about the same winners who got social capital, in due time, because of the grab, not the privatization. The debt of a millionaire has moved on to the debts of a millionaire whose poverty is almost unsustainable to see. As for the Swiss loan, since the former government has led the banks to no longer have anyone to lend credit because the economic policy that was being conducted has so impoverished the citizens and the economy that more banks have so many non-performing loans, mortgages and real estate that they have no one to sell to, the whole construction industry has stopped because of that, they do business only with the state. So, the former regime, when he robbed the people, using mostly state-owned banks, the rest were held by foreign banks, foreign trade chains, etc. who didn't give themselves so easily, they took mortgages. Those mortgages can't sell. Credits are non-chargeable. Now they came to terms, so the former regime of these foreign banks, which were registered as domestic, took loans at very high interest rates, so that what they didn't take more than the clients, the impoverished citizens directly, so that they would withdraw the loans, then they remembered that they would withdraw those loans through the state, and when the state was in charge, then again these poor guarantees for everything that the state is withdrawing. So the former regime pulled those loans, and this year alone, we have to pay 134 billion interest. More than half of it falls on the domestic side of the bank. So what can no longer raise the population up to the state, and the population that is poor, robbed, I don't know how many times, it has to come back again. For this reason, I am actually surprised at the MPs of the former regime that such a concept, which was developed by such a democratic criminal enterprise as to rob the poored people, is surprised that they have the strength to say that this government is completely disoriented. I believe she's been targeted. She was largely targeted to allow a single robbery of our entire population in favour of a few dozen families in Serbia. Speaking of public procurement, I must say that until our arrival of state secrets were public, as you can see, they're still trying to do so, but public procurement was secret. The objections about public procurement do not stand. I'll just point out, since they're always accusing some farms, some public procurement for three stables. This is the former president of the former regime's party, Vrbovski, that's with Belgrade's PKK, three stables in public procurement. The initial price was three million 448 thousand. The final price of three stables without a building permit, which do not have a license today, is 11mm of 700,000 euros, which is between seven and eightm euros higher than the initial price. What kind of procurement was that with only one bidder that met the conditions? In doing so, the contractor of the company "Turbogas" which is registered for trade is large and small. She never made any stables, stables, farms, etc. I wonder justifiably what kind of public procurement was it, what was the composition of those who gave it, because mainly in 2011, the Delta City, Delta Holding, was brought into the PKK? In 2011, before these public procurements, the PKK debt was 2.724 million. A lot. It's been a debt since the '80s. Then in two years, in 2013, when the former president of the former regime fell, those leading the PKK remained 9.997 billion, which is more than 7.273 billion, a total of 70m euros. The 70m-euro funds were enough to pay for 727,300 rural pensions. If someone is talking about public procurement, if someone is talking about the current situation, it would be right to state this information, and there is something else, these losses were hiding, so let's say the former president of the former regime's former party about 8.4.2013, as he wrote according to impressive results in the PKK, allowed a 5% bonus to be divided into a billion and a few million dinars. So the compensation should have divided 72m for these impressive results, and it was a loss of 70m euros. What kind of procurements were they in the PKK when three stables were set without a building permit that never got the permits used and which cost, behold, 11 million 700 000 euros? If they'd made a Hotel Hayat, would it have cost so much barns for regular cows? So much for farms, since a lot of people are accusing me because I'm a farmer. This country has not been ruined by peasants and farmers, this country has been ruined by these farmers from the city, so-called charmers, and therefore I am even more surprised by complaints about public procurement. Let's move on, here's a distinguished colleague who was deputy head of the parliamentary group, one opposition group, talking about public procurement in health care. Now, let me tell you right now. As a member of the Health Fund of the Republic, appointed as a farmer to the place envisaged for farmers, I must tell you that I have received information about public procurement at the Clinical Hospital Centre of Vojvodina at the Emergency Centre. The Emergency Centre manager is Vesna Pajtic, the wife of the new DS president. At least I think he's still president, they often change. It was only in 2011, and the budget inspection checked it, launched 108 public procurements for nine months without the adoption of a financial plan and a public procurement plan, for which it was legally required. The value of public procurement was two billion dinars, which is close to 20m euros. One more thing, the gate built at the Emergency Centre is the same as in front of the director of the Clinical Hospital Centre, Mr. Draskovic, who again received a criminal report, but he is the aunt of a highly positioned prosecutor in the Republic Prosecutor's Office, so those applications for such public procurement rest. One more thing, he allowed a million and 828 thousand to receive an Ethics Committee from foreign pharmaceutical houses. Imagine this Ethics Committee of the Clinical Hospital Center of Vojvodina, which receives from foreign pharmaceutical houses in a year, in nine months millions and 828 thousand dinars. Really ethical. I don't know what I could add here. We are going to the Emergency Centre, the famous diagonal – spent twice as much money. The Institute of Sremska Kamenica was supposed to cost 10 million, and with construction it already cost 20m euros, but that's why it waits for three months at the Institute of Oncology, a waiting list of 1,000 patients, as there are not enough radiation devices, so-called links, because instead of the appliances, money was spent on the building, at 5,000 square meters. The enormous amount has been spent, but the patients are not being treated. So, they don't have machines, it's the last one since 2007, and he's running out of time. A list of 1,000 people waiting for three months. Here, let the gentleman tell me not to call him directly, Mr Blazic, if he is somewhere in the area, how many patients will die because he will not be irradiated in time, and 10m euros more has been spent on the building. Look at the miracles, the head of the former provincial health minister, the godfather of Vice-President Goran Jesic of the DS, and his deputy was his mother, otherwise a nurse. They ordered such an institute, and now that the public procurement for the equipment, then that Mr. Vukic crossed over and became director of the Institute of Oncology and the last tender fell like this. The company "Barien" sought 10m euros and something for two radiation appliances, and the Swedish company offered better appliances for six. Of course, they chose that expensive variant. That's why the tender fell and the lives of those 1,000 patients are even more endangered. I ask all doctors – who will be responsible for the death of at least 500 patients who will die due to inadequate treatment? I must say immediately that health care in Vojvodina and all those executives are not elected by the Serbian Parliament, is not elected by the Republic Health Fund, we are only giving money, and they are choosing the leaderships that will take care of hospitals, emergency centres, institutes, etc., in the territory of Vojvodina. We don't even have the right without their consent to ask them where the money is – and where did their money end up, in which diagonals and what large and small trading companies, called the Turbo Gas, which had an increase in traffic when they made these stables for 1,000 million million? From one point to 200 million, they jumped to 1,200 and a few million. These are famous public procurements, if they were even public, and I think they were secrets, which they did. So there's something else I want to ask. The equipment in Vrbas, Mr. Becic, instead of two million, cost six, but they won't give you the information, because the hospital's leadership has chosen the circuit assembly, or the province government. One table for the family, instead of 7,000 euros, an invoice of 28,000 euros, four times more expensive. I'm asking you, what's the D.A.'s office doing? Of course, I showed it here online. What's the D.A.'s office doing? What are the law enforcement agencies doing to contain this? What are we doing here? Why don't we change these prosecutors? No matter how they passed these laws, etc., the laws are passed in this congregation, above this congregation is only God and we must end up with such an independent judiciary, at least in my opinion, to put it on healthy feet once. Not because we want an addictive judiciary, they're independent of us, but I've already shown they're addicted to the parties of the former regime that put them there to protect the robbery, to protect the robbers from the state, not the state from the robbers. One more thing in the end, my dear citizens. If you think you're better off tomorrow, the ones who robbed you yesterday, then you're matured for this new MP who came here, who's a neuropsychiatist. Don't believe it, believe it. Don't trust those who invite you to the streets to change power so you can be picked up again tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-30-0.u21532	Is anyone answering to take advantage of their right to Article 96? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a common principled search. We will continue the debate in detail Monday at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MPs - Aleksandar Senic and Dr Ninoslav Stojadinovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON THE SUPPLEMENT OF MINISTRATIVES. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr. Kori Udovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Dr. Dusan Vujović, Minister of Finance, Željko Sertić, Minister of Industry, Dr. Jorgovanka Tabaković, Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zlatko Milic, Assistant Minister of Finance, Djordje Jevtic, Director of Supervisory of Financial Institutions at the National Bank of Serbia, Dejan Devic, Deputy Director General of the Directorate for Legal Affairs at the National Bank of Serbia, Milena Kovac, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Inga Suput Đurić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance, Marina Papadakis, Governor of Law of the National Bank for National Affairs of Serbia, National Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Slovenia and Minister of Slovenia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Zivkovic, Vladimir Pavicevic, Gordana Comic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic and Borislav Stefanovic. You have received a report from the committees responsible, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Dejan Nikolic and Borislav Stefanovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
