ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have conditions for further work. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the next MEPs – Zoran Zivkovic, Zarko Obradović and Vladimir Marinkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I hereby inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time provided for in Article 86(1). With the call of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and bringing together the points. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Council of Prosecutors Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. No one voted for – 125 against – 14 abstention – seven MPs of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For the vote – 125, against – 15, abstention – no one voted for five MPs of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For the vote – 126, against – 14, abstention – no one voted, five MPs of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For the vote – 127, against – 14, abstention – no one voted, five MPs from the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. For the vote – 127, against – 14, abstention – no one voted, five MPs from the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42991	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Fellow Members and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, this fire in the hall means that finally the assembly majority will accept my proposals, because all I propose from session to session is to improve the laws adopted by this assembly majority more than a year ago. In this regard, a year and a half ago, this assembly majority passed two laws concerning informationThe proposal for a law on information and media and the proposal for a law on public media services, thus abolishing the possibility of local self-government to be the founders of local media services and abolishing the right of citizens under Sava and Danube to be equal and able to use a public media service. In this law, there are only two public media services in the Republic of Serbia: Vojvodina's Radio Television and Serbian Radio Television. Vojvodina's radio-television covers the territory of Vojvodina and allows the citizens of Vojvodina to, in addition to the information they have through RTS through RTS, have additional information via tv, because it has two television and three radio programs. So local topics that interest the people of Vojvodina can be much better seen and much better information to get. What's the problem, is that citizens under Sava and Danube, besides RTS and RTV, don't have the opportunity to adequately be represented in the program, for the simple reason that the programme's capacity is so high, the day lasts 24 hours, it doesn't last, and people don't have the opportunity to inform what's going on in Prokuplje, Leskovac, Vranja, what's going on in Nis, Kragujevac, Kruševec, Šapcu. What I have suggested is that radio-television is formed by Serbia, according to the TV scheme, that it has two television and three radio programs and a mode of operation such as RTTV, which is that 70% of the funds from the subscription go to finance the radio-television of Serbia, and 30% of the funds to finance RTS. (National MP Dragan Shormaz throws out of place. You will listen, my colleague, to this for the entire term of office...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42992	Without throwing away, talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42993	Madam Chairman, please, I'm still a dentist, I can't concentrate when there's a noise, if you can warn a fellow Shormaz not to throw it at me. Thank you. Repeat, I have three minutes left, so I'll explain to him why we're asking for a vote of radio-television within Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42994	You've wasted your time on your persuasion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42995	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42996	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against -no one, abstentions - no, 129 of the total 145 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted your proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law on freedom of fear. Does Ambassador Borislav Stefanovic want a word? He's not here. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 133 out of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of political activities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 133 out of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be completed with the dots – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 130 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a bill to supplement the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 132 out of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Rehabilitation Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 134 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the bill, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September this year. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 132 out of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Slobodan Homen suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 133 out of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a law supplementing the property tax law. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law on additions to the Criminal Code. Do you want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 133 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Jovanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 133 out of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Does he want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 132 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a law supplementing the property tax law. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 136 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the session be complemented on the agenda – draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session be complemented on the agenda – Proposal for an amendment to the Law on corporate tax. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42997	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, who knows which time I want to give you and explain the reasons for putting on the agenda a session of the National Assembly Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. The law contains only a change in one member, but with long-term positive effects on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has increased from 2012 to today, practically all taxes i.e. tax rates on all taxes paid in Serbia. The additional value tax increased from 18% to 20%, profit tax from 8%, corporate tax from 10% to 15%, excise duty on tobacco, oil, coffee, new electricity excise, property tax, etc. In this way, I am afraid, honourable MPs, that the government rejects investors because, in addition to this, investors are rejected and poor regulation, high trading prices, poor labour practice and an institutional environment. Many transition countries had relatively low profit tax rates, companies and this proved to be an important fiscal instrument, a function of economic development, an increase in employment and ensuring a high growth rate in the future, primarily through an increase in exports. With this tax discharge, we will begin to create for investors and all those who are now operating an attractive tax system in the service of the economy and a gradual increase in GDP. Just reducing the profit tax rate from 15 to 10% will not solve the structural problems of our economy, but it can certainly be an important fiscal instrument to heal the growth of our economy. For this reason and all that I have said, honourable MPs I call you to vote for this bill, because simply no one in the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS sees the reason why such a bill would not be on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42998	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 135 of the total attendance of 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstention – voted 134 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the conversion of credit in Swiss francs chf to euro. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 135 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Janko Veselinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 135 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u42999	Thank you, Madam Chairman. On August 1, 2014, the assembly majority adopted an amendment to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance and thus reduced the social security contribution from 12.3% to 10.3%, two percent to the pension position and thus reduced the RFZO by about 300m euros in annual income. Normally, this was done with the aim of disbursing the budget so that, according to pensions for 300m euros, the budget would have less expenditure to show the positive effect of this year's budget operations. But to get back to the RFO and the money that we all invest in that fund so we can have health care. By reducing two percent, respected colleagues, health contributions we reduced the inflow in 2014 to 165.9 billion dinars, to 125.3 billion dinars, which is 40 billion less than it was in 2014. By reducing these two percent, the IMF budget rebalance was made so that the budget planned for the 236 billion dinars was reduced by 20 billion and was 215.7 billion. And that's not all. What's interesting is this is what I was talking about when we adopted the budget that the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to make nearly millions of insurance workers, Serbian citizens pay contributions to health care, and that's about 11 billion dinars somewhere. This year 530 million were paid instead of 11 billion, and 668 billion were planned next year. All of this shows that the budget deficit is somewhere around 40 billion dinars for the same amount of rights and obligations of insured persons. And in order not to trouble the functioning of Serbian health care, I ask you to accept my proposal and return to health insurance 12.3% because we listen to months back that the budget is in excellent condition, so that the budget has enough money to co-finance pensions and that by voting this amendment, the law allows Serbia's health care to have enough money.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43000	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 132 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act. The word is Blagoje Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43001	Thank you, Madam Chairman. And pick up where I left off. The amendment of the Law on Public Media Services and Information and the media found that the tax on RTS and RT Vojvodina would be 500 dinars, a few days ago we changed it and we will see how the government will create that tax since New Year's Eve. What is certain is that the budget has planned over four billion dinars to finance RTS and RTS, and since the budget is filled by all Serbian citizens, so we all give money to finance RTS and RTV, with citizens under Sava in Danube, I repeat for who knows which time, they do not have the same right of representation in public media services. You're all aware, respected citizens, that we have an early morning RTS program where some news is released from a place under Sava and Danube and you have an afternoon chorus of the region. It is usually news of negative connotations, but what interests Serbian citizens is how life is going, how public utility companies are doing in their midst. What matters to them, they don't have the opportunity to see it through RTS, and even less through TV, those who live under Sava and Danube. Please accept my proposal, in order to allow citizens living in Sapac, Valjev, Kragujevac, Kruševec, Nis, the White Palanca, Vranja to have the same information opportunities as citizens in Belgrade, as citizens in Vojvodina have. I know there are party decisions, but there is also something called responsibility to citizens, responsibility to their fellow citizens. It's nice to know if there's water on Voždovac, if there's a new bridge that was built three years ago, but I'm interested in Nis in how utility companies work, whether kindergartens have heating, whether urban transport works, and what's happening in Belgrade interests me as another or needs information. Dear MPs, it would be your turn to work and vote in the interest of your fellow citizens who have delegated you here. Let's not lose our conviction when we cross the Drum Creek, let's not turn the story around and vote how we...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43002	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 126 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the definition of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43003	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honorable MPs, respected citizens, are two reasons why I proposed to the Assembly to re-examine this law that was passed several months ago. One, which, in the lawyer's view, is against the law and is intruding into an unimpaired right of private property because this Assembly has allowed and allowed the Republic of Serbia and the city of Belgrade to buy private property for one part of the Belgrade municipality under the grounds that it is a public interest and to give to another private person who will work on a business and housing complex for the market and further sell and to earn profits. I think it's deeply unconstitutional and it's not right. The investor could have arranged with those privates, and it's in everyone's best interest to earn and do what he imagined. The second reason I suggested amending this law is how to finance expropriation and how to finance the infrastructure equipment of the Sava plateau. That'll be done from the budget. If I were right, you can see in the 2016 budget, where two billion dinars are allocated for it, two billion dinars of taxpayers of Serbian citizens for infrastructure equipment in part of a Belgrade municipality. I don't think that's right. Every city in Serbia has such procedures either resolved by raising credit or by calling for self-dependence. Only this assembly majority allowed it to be done in Belgrade on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't think that's right. I think we can use this money better by investing in job creation because we all say that Serbia's main burning problem is unemployment. That money would also be welcome as an economic incentive to open new factories and hire people across Serbia. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the honourable ladies of the People's Parliament, I ask you to accept my proposal in order to change the decision and to allow the budget money to be used to raise the economic, business capacity of the Republic of Serbia, not to build two towers with a total of 300 apartments, one bedroom, two bedroom and three room rooms, that is done in our places, but in money, by paying the communals, by buying building land and by paying all the connections and not on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43004	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 126 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be supplemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43005	I have proposed amending the Health Insurance Act because under the Health Insurance Act, Article 41 speaks about the rights of the RFZO insurance company to repair teeth and treat mouth diseases. In accordance with Article 41, Article 41 shall apply. The Health Protection Act, the right to repair teeth on the burden of RFO assets, have under 18 years of age, students and high school students until 26 years of age, over 65 years of certain services and people, i.e. insurance with specific diseases, so I don't count them now, and pregnant women before, during pregnancy and after childbirth. I suggested that, by amending the law, all insurance companies, and I'm talking about 4.5 million people who pay contributions to the Republic of Serbia and don't have the right to repair their teeth to the burden of the Fund, that all insurance companies have the right to fix their teeth on the burden of the Republic Fund. This assembly majority, for who knows which time, will not accept, respected citizens of Serbia, my proposal, although we are all talking in the campaign to work for the interest and well-being of Serbian citizens. It is not for me why fellow MPs do not want to support this proposal and to enable you who are paying contributions and filling the RFZO to have the right to burden that same Fund which you are filling with your contributions from your earnings, to have the right to fix your teeth. We live at a time when there is great unemployment, when there is great poverty, when we fight for every job and for every dinar, when people make ends meet and it would mean a lot to the citizens of Serbia that they can fix their teeth on the burden of the Republic Fund, not to pay private services, however much private dentists take down the prices of their services. When you're gone, there's a lot of money. Please, fellow MPs, think again and decide for the interest of those people who sent you to this room for their own good. Please accept my proposal to amend Article 41. The Law on Health Insurance and Health Care and allowed people to have the right to use the dentist book and to fix their teeth on the burden of RFZO's assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43006	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 121 out of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – a proposal for a law supplementing the Tax Act to add value. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43007	Thank you, Mr. President. This is, I don't know which time we're looking to put on the agenda a supplement of the Value Added Tax Act whose essence is that baby food is taxed, with a special tax rate, instead of 20% on 10%. Behind this idea of ours, I'm sure you already know that, but it's not burning again, there's our desire for the state to show that it's taking care of what Serbia's future will look like. We all agree that Serbia today is among the many problems, is also facing the problem of the white plague, that every year, less and less babies are born in Serbia, and that one of the reasons for this is the difficult economic situation of young people, who because of the small receiving or inability to achieve any income and find work at all, do not decide to get married, decide not to start a family, and our idea was to show by this one small measure that the state is taking care of it, takes care of the future and wants to do something. Unfortunately, all of these, it seems to me to be eight, nine sessions that we tried to put on the agenda, the congregation majority had no understanding. Unfortunately, I think that's how it's going to be today. What may be the most tragic and most worrying in relation to these previous sessions when we tried to put this on the agenda, this is the first session after the adoption of the budget, where we could not see in the 2016 budget a single measure of government to address the problem of reduced birth in Serbia. All budget money at best, as we heard from the ministers in charge, will be in the same amount as last year, where there are no cuts. And no new measures, no policies towards fighting for greater birth in Serbia. And I call on fellow MPs to do something to show the government that something needs to change, to force the government to come here with an active programme of measures that will work to increase birth, because if we don't do something today in 20 or 30 years, I'm afraid it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43008	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, voted 116 MPs, out of the 139 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session be complemented on the agenda by the draft law amending and supplementing the property tax law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43009	Thank you, President, for almost six months on behalf of the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, we have been trying to put the agenda on the agenda. The essence of the law is to change the way in which the property tax is charged, several key things are primarily that the property tax is calculated not as so far, but that it is released from paying taxes by 25 square metres per household for each obligor. This would mean, on average, that if one family lived in an apartment or a house of up to 100 square meters, the average family of four members, would not pay, would be exempt from paying taxes on that surface, and would pay taxes on the possible difference that it exists. The second amendment is that no tax part of the land is taxed up to 10 acres of an invoice, i.e. it refuses, if that area is larger than 10 acres today, because of the inaccuracy of the law, tax administrations account for tax on the whole area if the land area is larger than 10 acres, and not only the difference. Thirdly, an important change is that the property tax cannot be greater than 7% of the amount of tax established for the previous calendar year. All this, the Government refused its argument, and unfortunately MPs who did not support it once to put this on the agenda, but on the other hand, the government, proposed the budget that we adopted two days ago, which provides together with the accompanying laws of new burdens for citizens, new increased excise duties on fuel, alcoholic beverages, a excise on the calculation of strength and new burdens that citizens will hardly be able to pay in 2016. Some local self-governments have seen this problem, so they announce that in 2016 they will otherwise account for property tax or eventually reduce it, but we think that the way of accounting, as is now proposed by the Property Tax Act, is not good and I suggest that this second one, which we consider to be more just and difficult times for citizens, is more acceptable and I urge you to support that this law be found on the Assembly's agenda, that at least to some extent we make life easier for citizens and allow them to carry out their obligations to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43010	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 123 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the termination of the Law on Temporary Regulation and the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43011	This is the last of the three laws, which I have been trying to put on the agenda since the start of the autumn session on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic, SDS, ZS and ZZ, the Law on the termination of the Law on Temporary Regulation and the way pensions are paid. I think it is absolutely necessary and that the debate on the budget last week for 2016 has convinced us further. The government almost arrived 14 months ago with a bill adopted by the assembly majority, which shifted the entire burden of fiscal consolidation to the burden of citizens, to the burden of pensioners and to the burden of public administration employees. After 14 months, unfortunately, we can see that others are saving in the budget, except for those achieved in the downsizing of salaries and pensions, no. The State is not prepared to do anything in 2016 to create conditions for the termination of this law. We think it is necessary for the Assembly to make the government work better, to take on real reforms, to deal with state administration reform, to finally start doing something to create an effective state, to bear the burden of fiscal consolidation, by spending more rationally and less on spending, by being efficient and by working to attract foreign investment, but also by encouraging domestic investment. It's all gone, the government just satisfactorily continues to reduce, with savings on citizens, and we find it unacceptable. So I urge you to support this law and to send the Government a clear message that it is on the wrong path and that something needs to be changed. Our bill implies that pensions return to that level before the reduction, as well as that the difference in paid pensions, payments in 2016. We think it's the only fair solution, because that difference and that money the state took to the pensioners, in our deep confidence, when they're going to have to come back. When the Strasbourg court makes decisions that these decisions are contrary to the law, public debt will be created and we better repay that debt now as it is smaller than when the debt grows. I ask the President to establish the quorum, because I see a lot more cards than MPs in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43012	Please determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. 103 MPs are present. I can't put it to a vote. I'm setting a five-minute break. I ask the MPs to come to the O.R. to continue our work. [[after breaks]] Please establish a quorum. I figure we've got 127 present, so we can keep working. We should put the first vote on the proposal put forward by Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 126 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Lasslo Varga proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43014	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the issue of pension and disability insurance for farmers is one question that has long been unresolved, practically pushed under the carpet. There have been many words about this problem in this House, but nothing in practice has happened. It is no accident that one of the key points of the SVM and SNS coalition agreement was this particular issue, therefore, to resolve the level of obligations for the pension and disability insurance of farmers. After that, at the end of last year, about a year ago, a working group was formed within the government, which was tasked with building and proposing a solution to this issue to the National Assembly. Unfortunately, it's been almost a year, or maybe more than a year and nothing's happened again, nothing's happening. On October 23rd, I submitted two draft laws to the National Assembly that would solve this problem. On the one hand, I have proposed amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, on the other hand, to amend and supplement the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I suggest these two laws be put on the agenda. I suggested that up to a certain limit, up to three hectares of farmers be released from the obligation to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. When I put this proposal together and put it together, it was some real figure, some real censorship. After a drastic reduction of subsidies for farmers, after the future adoption of the agricultural land law, it is certain that the censorship is no longer realistic, but regardless of all this at one point, this issue must be found on the agenda of this parliament. If this does not happen, and if, of course, a new subsidy system will be applied, a new agricultural land law will be passed and due to all of this and due to the unreal amount of contribution for compulsory pension and disability insurance, a huge number of farmers will come into an unembarkable situation, practically in a personal bankruptcy. Of course, I am aware of the fact that very rarely in this House are put on the agenda of proposals tabled by MPs and this proposal will not be put on the agenda either, here I am ending up, but that doesn't mean that in the coming period... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43015	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. ` I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the total attendance of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Lasslo Varga proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Do you want a word? (Laslo Varga, from the city: No. No, no, no, Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 135 of the total attendance of 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Just one moment. I'm going to ask you, I'm not sure, did the bill on the suspension of the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which the pension was paid? Thank you. National MP Branka Karavidic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43016	Thank you, Madam President. Fellow MPs, the European Commission's report on the state of the Serbian media more than a month ago, unfortunately defeating. There is no progress in applying the Public Information Act and the media. On the contrary, there is a setback. The obligation to enroll all owners directly or indirectly, who own more than 5% of the stake in the ownership structure, by August of the month. The adoption of the seven media laws in August 2014 is unfortunately the only success that the European Commission recognises. So we haven't moved since August 2014. Does it matter to us that we know who the media owners are? All those who in some way influence the formation of our opinion. I mean not only those who are obliged to enroll in the register with more than 5% share in the ownership structure, but also those who own less than 5% of the stake, and who exercise effective control over editorial policy, as well as sources of funding for more media. The practice, unfortunately, has shown that there are such cases. My proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS is an amendment to the Law on Public Information and Media and provides that all owners must register directly or indirectly, regardless of the level of shares in founding capital. In this way, we will ensure transparency of the ownership structure, which will help restore citizens' confidence in the media, while at the same time reducing the possibility of possible abuses or illicit influences on the media. I will remind you that one of the Constitutions guaranteed rights and the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as the control of the legality and availability of legal persons. For these reasons, I invite you to support this proposal to amend this law on the agenda of this session. I note that a recent statement by European Parliament rapporteur David McCallister should not be ignored about his concern about the media situation in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43017	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, has voted 131 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session be complemented by a point – a bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43018	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, is a good democratic practice, and it is a democratic practice in representative democracies that MPs of the majority accept that the meetings of the Assembly also discuss the legislative projects of the opposition, gentlemen. One such legislative project was submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs of the New Party in the light of a completely new, comprehensive bill on planning and arrangement of space and settlement. We propose, ladies and gentlemen, that our proposal to plan and edit space and settlement be placed on the agenda of this ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015. I remind the MPs that this legislative project has been squatting in the assembly procedure for months, that it has been created in response to the amendment and addition of the Law on Planning and Construction, which was defended by Minister Mihajlovic here in December, and we have then had several remarks. The first, basic remark was that, and that was what we said to Mrs. Mihajlović, that it was not directed to amend and supplement the existing law, but that it was necessary to prepare a whole new draft law on planning and construction, as Mrs. Mihajlović has called it, and we called our proposal a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. If we were right back then, it was only two weeks after the draft law on planning and construction was adopted here in the Assembly, when only two weeks later we had to discuss proposals for amendments to the law that was passed two weeks ago. For us, it was about calling one such law a rag of law. It wasn't the only law here, gentlemen, there were many. We propose that instead of hitting the rule of law, and every time we meet with a rag of law, it is a blow to government rights, that, instead, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we open a debate on a bill involving professionals, which is placed on 200 pages in 81 members and called the law on planning and regulating space and settlements. I remind you once again, putting on the agenda and these points today would be proof of democratic practice and respect for democratic customs and for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43019	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 133 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the extensions of the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I are proposing to the Members of the People to include our proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education in the agenda of the Ninth Session of the Second Regular Session in 2015. Dear gentlemen, there is one great innovation that we explain every time we want this bill to be one point in the agenda of one session of our National Assembly. That newspaper, gentlemen, is called a plagiarist. We want, gentlemen, to be measured when writing works of which, which of whom he prescribed, and which he did not state, and when it is determined that someone else's idea, other people's words, other sentences, paragraphs, and sometimes chapters in general, that doctorate, master's work, master's work, the graduate work of such a person is erased through one plagiarist institute, respected gentlemen. Our proposal is to add to the Law on Higher Education a great principle that exists in the higher education systems of each European democratic state, which is the principle of academic integrity. The principle of academic congratulation is based on the independent production of written works and strict respect for other people's copyrights. We believe that this kind of intervention is necessary in our higher education system because, especially in the last two years, all of us here, and not just us MPs, but also members of the academic community, citizens of our Republic, have been exposed to one severe flood of plagiarists and plagiarists. And here on this occasion, I would like to remind you that plagiarism is the most difficult form of violation of the principle of academic integrity. It is our obligation to work in an institution called the National Assembly, and I remind you once again that our National Assembly is a central political institution in our constitutional system, to respond to this severe flood of plagiarism as an institution, and an appropriate reaction is to define academic integrity among those basic principles, the principles on which our system of higher education rests. I think, gentlemen, it would be appropriate, once and for once, in our National Assembly, to open a debate about this great problem that we have faced especially in these two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43021	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 131 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Police Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43022	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, as well as last week, and this week I will tell you that this proposal for a legal solution does not come from the Democratic Party's parliamentary club. The Democratic Party's parliamentary club supports this legal solution. The change in the law comes from courageous women who have suffered violence and who have had the strength to say – not the bullys, who have launched a national campaign to awaken awareness in the Balkans, to awaken awareness in Serbia that it is not normal for women to fight and that it is not normal for a bully to be protected, that it is necessary for the victim to protect and the state of Serbia by signing the Istanbul Convention to protect the victim of violence. What I want to tell you and to share with you is that this legal proposal comes from the Autonomous Women's Center and all the women's organisations that are fighting for the rights of women who have been protected by women who have suffered violence and are asking the Republic government to support them and to temporarily remove the legal solution of a bully from his family home for 14 days, because it is not normal, you will agree, that a woman who suffers violence, which is in bruises, which is with blood leaks, hides and flees from her family home, hides in a safe house, and that the bully stays home to watch television. These are legal solutions that many European countries have accepted and I hope that Serbia, which is heading towards Europe, which will become an EU member, will accept this legal solution. I want to share with you the information that only in the last year were 6,000 reported violence against women. Of this, 3,642 cases were passed to the prosecution, that the prosecution had reached 1,712 verdicts, that only 634 prison sentences, that the prosecution had imposed only 70 measures last year, and that 1,250 women had left their homes and gone to a safe house. I also want to give you one piece of information, dear presidents, and I'm going to ask you, perhaps, something that is not common in this assembly, that only last year, 33 of our fellow citizens, our ladies, lost their lives in domestic violence, 33 women lost their lives in domestic violence last year in Serbia. Against the desire to draw attention to this, I want to remain silent and honor these women who have lost their lives in domestic violence. (The People's MP Dusan Milosavljevic honours women who have lost their lives in domestic violence with silence. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43023	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 26, no one, with abstentions, voted 120 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43024	Thank you. Our idea and proposal to the congregation's majority, namely all of us MPs, is to change the Arms and Ammunition Act, by making health checks compulsory, i.e. medical examinations of holders, holders and persons entitled to carry and use firearms. This applies to the faces that have guns, guns. Much more than this applies, for example. to people who are hunters, members of the Hunters' Association, who have guns, first because this group of people who deal with hunting and respect firearms doesn't use or very rarely have the use of a rifle to kill other people. Of course it doesn't apply directly to both the owners and the people who are authorized to use weapons as official persons, because they pass tests and tests anyway. It refers to a huge number of people in Serbia who have legal or illegal weapons, mostly those who are legally authorised by the state to hold, carry or use firearms, i.e. guns and guns. It is necessary that these people, within some of the time limits that we can agree on, our proposal can be changed by amendments, subject to medical examination, medical care to make sure that the person who owns the weapon or has the permission to carry and use this weapon is ready to use it. We are witnessing the tragic disappearances of life in families, in the streets, in bar fights, in car accidents, when people are too easily involved in weapons and remain regrettable, if they are justly condemned, throughout their lives, when people, living in a post-traumatic, post-conflict society, in society of exceptional difficulties for a stable life, in a post-war society, have the likelihood that they are, above all, helped to be seen under a legal obligation and to get confirmation of good health. It's a common benefit, not a party law, but a general social benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43025	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, no one, with abstentions, voted 132 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43026	Dear presidents, distinguished colleagues and especially colleagues, this is the bill we're making for the sixth time, unfortunately. Since last week, when, Madam President, you said we'd have a chance to talk at the level of the heads of the parliamentary groups, that didn't happen. What's this about? Simply, according to an official report by the MUP, the last quarter we have considered, we have an increase in domestic violence of over 40%. If we know the statistics that in the last year 33 women have been killed, out of which 15 firearms, of which seven guns, eight guns, we find it necessary to pass a law that will take away the possibility for domestics to legally own a weapon that carries out mass murder or murder. I remind you, this proposal came after 17 May when a large mass murder took place in Canjiza, and when a certain Rade Schaeffer, after being in police custody, was taken away from him by a legal weapon, returned home and committed the murder of six people. Someone will say that killings can happen not only with firearms, but we'll agree that there can be no murder of six people unless you have a firearm. This isn't the only example, this isn't the only case, but I'd like to appeal to the ladies sitting in parliament, to bear in mind, that last year we had six thousand reported cases of domestic violence. We heard that about 3,640 lawsuits went to court and only 712 convictions. Women in Serbia, unfortunately, are at risk. Women in Serbia do not have the opportunity to stay in their homes if domestic violence occurs. Women in Serbia flee to safe houses. Women in Serbia are victims of major violence, I say, which has tragic consequences. This is the sixth time I try to appeal to you and I promise that none of the DS MPs will participate in the debate in the adoption of this law. This law is not a party law, this law is a supremacy law and in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, especially the part of our society, which, unfortunately, is being oppressed and still being oppressed today. I expect your support. If you have any better suggestions, put him to the vote and we will surely support him. In the meantime, we think this is the most complete thing. I remind you once again, someone will say that there are already laws by which it works. It's simply not true, because if there was such a law, there would be no tragedy in Kanjija, where six people were killed, and before that, the killer was in the police and no weapon was taken from him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43027	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that -22, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 126 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board, to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43028	Thank you. Yesterday, nine months since 13 March 2015, when seven people were killed when the rescue mission, approved by an oral order by the defence minister, was completed. The two commissions have been doing reports and our intention is right after the tragic event, and not only because the event is so tragic that the disappearance of seven people by us is sufficient reason for all possible details of the accident to be obtained, but because we believe that the Assembly is the place where all of the executive authorities are determined and so are those who participated in the subordination, or from the defence minister who gave the oral order, to the last person in the subordination. Our committee of inquiry is neither opposition nor majority, it is drawn up by the rules of how survey committees do it, primarily to find an answer to two important questions that have no answer in either the first or second report of the commission on what the prosecutor is doing, we have no information. We have only information that the two generals' disciplinary court has been punished by a ban on progress, which we consider inappropriate, because it is the minister who issued the order past the co-ordination protocol, and the two generals would be punished, accepted or not, except that they do not seem to be subject to the rule of law, two questions remain without an answer. First, based on whose information, who informed the Secretary of Defense, who proved to him that he needed to order a rescue helicopter, who informed him of the conditions so that he could make that assessment? There's no answer to that question anywhere. We consider it extremely important, because apparently the minister estimated that whoever gave him the information was credible enough not to have written orders, orally in the subordination to give further orders and to launch a rescue mission called "Helicopter". This is about the minister saying that months later he said he was proud to do everything again. I hope one day he understands what he said in that sentence. And the second question is, who changed the flight plan of the aircraft when it was already on its way to Belgrade? Who determined where the aircraft would land? These are two questions that are crucial for the examination of responsibilities. We criminal charges, investigations, leave it to the prosecutions, but we consider this necessary for the work of the Assembly to be responsible for all the places in which the Assembly elects anyone, and the Assembly elects the defence minister, is not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43029	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 136 of the total of the people's MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Sutanovac suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances in which the listening and publication of the transcripts of the talks between Lydia Udovici and "Continental Wind Serbia" and Bojan Pajtic, the Prime Minister and the DS, given the fact that corruption attempt by JP "EMS" Director Nikola Petrovic was alleged. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43030	Dear MPs and honourable MPs, we are witnessing that in early October Serbia was shaken by another major affair, an affair that involved illegal listening to the Prime Minister of the province of Vojvodina and the president of the DS, during which and after which a transcript of the talks was published, showing that some people in one job, who were also supposed to be a state job, were looking for certain compensations, i.e. a practical bribe. What we can conclude is that, unfortunately, despite the fact that the prosecution has reportedly reacted in the media, we have no epilogue of this case, and that's the case since early October. We have no epilogues or cases of earlier secret illegal hearings, which he spoke of no more than the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Serbia is becoming a country of affairs. Serbia becomes a country of polygraphs. Serbia is becoming a country where tabloids accuse, judge and execute penalties, and there is obviously not enough desire in those who are paid and competent to carry out such investigations to finally resolve it. That is why DS lawmakers believe it is necessary that we finally bring this thing down to Serbia's parliament, to form a committee that will rightly form a committee, i.e. a survey committee that will provide the right answers to those issues that concern Serbian citizens. The issues primarily concern who secretly and illegally, besides any authority, is doing secret listening and listening, primarily Serbian citizens? When I say Serbian citizens, I think that all Serbian citizens are practically threatened by what is happening, as well as by state officials, starting with the President of the Republic of Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, who on several occasions spoke of his phone listening, and of course the President of the District Government of Mr. Bojan Pajtic, whose transcript of the talks, which he confirmed to be authentic, came out in the media, which was even discussed in Congress, or the US Senate. This affair has shaken not only the citizens within our country, this affair has also gained international character. This affair went so far that our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, waited for a letter from the senator and congressman who sent the letter to the Vice President of America, saying his closest associates were involved in corrupt things in Serbia. We think that this is the only way to get clear of its associates, if it is not available, and finally protect Serbian citizens from the will of those who today abuse technique, i.e. have the possibility to secretly listen to both the most state officials and ordinary citizens in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-14-0.u43031	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 138 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Petar Petrovic has proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: the draft law on enforcement and security, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Justice, the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Law on Judges, the Proposal for an Supplement to the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Supreme Council of the Court, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law of the State Council of Prosecutors, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Law on the Justice of the Court of Justice, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees and the Law on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Protection of the Secret Data; and the common principle of the laws on health and the protection of the laws of health and of the laws on the laws of the health of the laws of the laws of the health and of the laws of the Member States. Does Ambassador Petar Petrovic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – 13, the abstentions – there are no, two of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for the completion of the agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, v – 12, abstention – one, two of the 150 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the ninth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. D n e n e d: 1. Proposal for a law on enforcement and security; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of the judiciary; 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors; 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Academy; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial fees; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual protection of classified information; 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act; 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act; 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. We'll proceed with the agenda tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
