ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36734	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues, the Government has proposed to amend Article 2. The Act on Safety and Health at Work and their Change applies, I will read the article – the right of the employer and the responsibility of the employer and the employees of the jurisdiction and the measures by which the relationship in implementation ensures safety and health at work is carried out in accordance with this law and regulations adopted under the law. He then proposed the addition of Article 2 which he says – this law is not applicable in the performance of a specific military service in the Serbian Army and the conduct of police and rescue operations from the work of the competent state authority in which health security issues are governed by special law and regulations under the law in carrying out that service. We thought, and it was accepted by the government that this should be expanded and added that after the part where it says "after the state authorities" when it is said to add the words "as well as to carry out the protection and rescue activities carried out by other entities in accordance with special law". We believe that it is necessary to exclude from the provisions of this law not only entities of a specific military service and entities covering police and protection and rescue activities from the work of the competent state authorities, but also entities carrying out protection and rescue activities under other laws and regulations adopted under those laws, and therefore we have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36735	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36736	The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, reporting by amendment. It's very good that this is done properly. We thank the constructive opposition, but unfortunately I have to note that there is one part of an unconstructive opposition that does not use the right to come to the Committee's meetings and to honour the objections in good time, and we have an important law on mentioning the features that are important for both our tradition and for the state of Serbia. I call on representatives of the opposition who are delegated by their side, as elected here to be members of the Committee to attend so that we do not come to the situation as yesterday to re-examine the character and work of the Minister of the Army of Bratislava Gasic and was he right when he laid flowers to mark the dead in the First World War for the Liberation of Kruševac. For the sake of the public, and since I am a Kruševljanka, I would also like to inform you that Kruševac has been released from the occupiers three times in his minority history of the same date. In 1833 of the Turks, mid-October 14, October 15th 1918 and 14th on October 15th 1944.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36737	Ambassador, don't get me wrong, please, did you ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36738	No, I answered the amendment. It's a good thing it's accepted, but I just want it and I'm asking you to let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36739	No, I'll let you, but it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36740	I am knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure, because yesterday the Rules of Procedure were broken, and we were dealing with the character and part of the person who was not present here and could not explain why this happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36741	Wait a minute, everything has its shape. Wait a minute, so I don't mind you saying it or anybody here and you know I'm not responding. Please, call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I or anyone who holds the presidency must react. Please call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure for members of this and that and say what you want in two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36742	I'm referring to article 107. Rules of Procedure, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36743	Thank you. We're gonna give you your time back, because I can't give you the amendment to talk, and you're aware of what you're talking about, I don't want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36744	I volunteered to knowingly break the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36745	Please don't. Everything has its own form. Here we go again. Please sign up again to start at zero, please. Please, just draw the card. Thank you. Tell me what the injury is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36746	I just want to explain that the town of Kruševac has been released three times in its history by occupiers in mid-October. In 1833 of Turks, 14 October 1918 of the Austro-Hungarian and German occupier, 1944 of the German occupation, 14 October 15th. Everything that has been done on 14 October has been respected by the maximum protocol and we are infinitely grateful to our military minister because he has consideration and respect for his hometown and we are proud to have such a defence minister. And your unnamed sources that misinformed you about what's going on in the town of Krusevec, here I invite you to see how little financial resources for the two years of government we've been carrying out, we take care of our young people, people who live in Krusevec and how little money can be done. The town of Kruševac has three dates that are very important for its history and are collected in one, 14th of October. It's our three in one for pride, and you have the Belgrade Bridge, three in one for shame and shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36747	Do you want us to vote on the injury? No, I don't. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36748	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers and distinguished guests from the Ministry, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, was a recently injured member of 103. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. Mrs. Gojkovic, I respect Mrs. Rakonjac, we often have a dialogue here and here at the plenary session and otherwise, but I can't skip this one situation right now where the esteemed presidents of Mrs. Rakonjac's National Assembly have announced to us here that she has reported that she has knowingly broken the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You said to Mrs. Rakonjac – well, please report that you are pointing to a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and then Mrs. Rakonjac later confirmed that she had reported not to intervene for the injury of the Rules of Procedure but to hurt the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly itself, Mrs. Gojkovic. With all due respect to Mrs. Rakonjac, I enjoy the dialogues here when Mrs. Rakonjac participates, but future, respected gentlemen yes and according to Article 98. The Constitution of our Republic, the National Assembly of the Most Representative Body, the institution of the Constitutional, Legislative Authority in the Republic of Serbia, I do not think we can allow here any MP, I would not allow myself to be honored gentlemen, to report here – I am reporting that I am knowingly violating the Rules of Procedure, and that the President, therefore, you, Mrs Gojkovic, you say to such a People's MP – well, here you are to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Your duty, I think, was Mrs. Gojkovic to tell Mrs. Rakonjac she can't get a word to violate the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, gentlemen. I think that's clear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36749	It's not worth the pressure on Wesen, you can't replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to replicate it, I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, just a second, I have to do it right now. That's right. And I'm telling you, you've made a huge mistake. A letter cannot hurt the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: You, not me, I said You, Honored President. So she didn't hurt her last time, and she didn't hurt her now. If anyone's hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's me. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Your obligation was) Yes, don't talk out loud now. Let me turn you off first. Now you can't answer me. So, I did everything not to hurt the Rules of Procedure and MP Vesna Rakonjac accepted and spoke for two minutes, I think it's justified, because she spoke about history, historical facts about an event or a speech that was held yesterday, I didn't chair at that moment, otherwise she would have remembered. I don't think anything happened to this parliament, but positively because of the citizens of Serbia, that MP Vesna Rakonjac said something, and I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, because there should be little luft, or as we say, places to do it directly, but I can't do any harm to the Rules of Procedure if you're just using the Rules of Procedure as a violation of the Rules of Procedure to say something. Therefore, I will give everyone an injury to the Rules of Procedure, but I know that nothing applies to me this time, but you want to say something to each other for the beginning of today, and I accept it in the spirit of parliamentaryism, because we are not just a body that will talk about members and certain topics that are given but also a little bit about political life and events in our country. Right? You often call for the possibility of debate, let's now move on to further amendments to tell everyone what we have for each other. Here you are, MP Vesna Rakonjac and Marijan Rističević, all infringements of the Rules of Procedure. First Vesna answered. Here you are, Wesen. You've been calling back while the MP was speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36750	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, for reporting in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, it is interesting that a colleague only reported to intervene now, not yesterday, when the Rules of Procedure was harshly violated, and there was talk of a defence minister who was not present to give an explanation, and that was not at all the subject of yesterday's debate. On the other hand, Mr. Pavicevic, I deeply respect his knowledge and knowledge and manipulative ability and the possibility of turning facts to my advantage. I appreciate all that, but the truth is what it is. She can't change. Stop dealing more with the character and work of Bratislava Gasic, nothing was wrong yesterday, neither yesterday nor the day before when he decently laid his crowns on the monuments for the release of Kruševec. So, please look at the historical facts for the sake of Serbian citizens that something that is not standing at all and that is not correct. I would ask you now to go back to the amendments and the debate that is on the agenda today, I simply had to react to what you said. With us at SNS, we don't want to abuse the Rules of Procedure, which is why I emphasized what I want to do at the cost and get a warning and punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36751	The word is Marijan Rističević, an insult to the MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36752	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, I am advocating Article 105 and Article 109 of Article 105(1), no one can speak at a session of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word from the President of the National Assembly. You have all witnessed my dear colleague and colleague, that Mr Pavicevic twice took the word, just before, twice taken the word without getting it. He simply held a dialogue with the chairman, spoke when he wanted to, said what he wanted, after the discussion was completed. So I think at that point he took an unauthorized word. In this connection, article 109 says that the reminder is given to the MP, so in the position of part 1 or part 3 - speaks before he asks and gets the word. I think the conditions have been met, because Mr Pavicevic took the floor before he got the presidency twice, after the discussion was completed, and I think he deserved, by his own means, or as often as he honors us, he deserved one little reminder, but I will not insist on it, knowing that he was disturbed by those three releases, and especially by that fourth release from the party of the former regime in Krusevec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36753	I'm not going to say a warning, I think it would be too rigid, because MPs often do it, what you've stated, I agree deeply with you, but it's too rigid. Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. The 2nd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36754	Thank you. So, I'm going to read you our amendment proposal so you don't take up your time reading the original amendment proposal from the government. It is therefore proposed that Article 2 be changed and read as follows: Article 4(2), point and comma are replaced by two points, so we go to the example reference, the sub-point (1) is added which reads: as an employer within the meaning of this law, a natural person is considered to provide, on any legal basis, a job for an employee, excluding a person, who is provided by a household and by a family farm owner, who performs business with family agricultural land, in accordance with the rules on agriculture. A point 23 is added where we say: the language which the employee understands is the native language, the language which is officially used in the territory in which the employer is established, or the employee does the jobs and who speaks, reads and writes, as well as the language established as a condition for the performance of the job. We find it unacceptable, as suggested by the Proposer, that, in the definition of the employer within the meaning of this law, the employer does not consider the person who provides the job in the household or the employer to be considered the holder of the family agricultural land, and that according to the decision of the Law, he considers the employer to be a natural person who carries out business or other activity with his family household members. It is, therefore, small family companies, mostly craftsmanship or small start-up companies that provide services in the area of design via the Internet etc. Also, we believe that the concept of prevention is not appropriate in the text of the law, since in point 5, preventive measures are defined, and this term is used in all further provisions of the bill, and we believe that the word "prevention" as a general generic term should not be used but the term "preventive measures". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36755	I'm sorry, Mr. Woolin has the word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36756	Let me just explain for a second. You know the definition that's been taken over, what's an employer and who's an employer, is taken over by the Business Society Act, so this law can't change the Business Society Act. We had to use the termology that exists in the Law. What's also important, here we're looking for an amendment to get the prevention out, is the security process, we need to prevent the essence of this law, we can't throw out the prevention. So prevention must be the core of this law and the reason we're essentially bringing it is to raise the prevention to a higher level and that's why we don't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36757	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Marjan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36758	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the government's opinion, I particularly liked this attitude about agriculture. So, peasants, martyrs, brothers in sweat, brothers in torture, people don't know what sickness is, summering, vacationing, 99% of them in life didn't see the sea, that 1% served the navy. So, at least they deserve protection at work to be something to protect them from the loss of body function, especially now the autumn harvesting of corn is very dangerous to the health of these people. So the protection provided for them at work is very important, given that it has an important impact on their health, not only at the moment it affects becoming disabled. Since especially when conditions are as meteorological as they are now, when they rush to finish their jobs, when they rush to sow wheat, when they don't have enough money or enough time, they risk injuries at work being common. Just to remind the minister that for that seasonal labour force, which I've already advocated, that this seasonal labour force, in a certain way, will be socially and medically provided when working on agricultural land. That is why I am obliged to make this one more time, that, in future, when a law on seasonal labour is being drafted, that this about agriculture is particularly regulated in a way that will be cheap and accessible to all farmers, that they can, with full law, be safe and in a certain way, secure, complete Polish works, feed the population and provide raw materials to the processing industry so that we can be producers of reprocessing and be competitive in our own and surrounding markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36759	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36760	Thank you. The government has proposed to amend Article 12. I will read to you what this proposal looks like – therefore, preventive measures are provided by the employer, starting with the following principles: under one, avoiding risks, under two, assessing risks that cannot be avoided in the workplace, under three, removing the risk at their source by applying modern technical solutions, under four, adapting work and employment, especially with regard to the choice of work equipment and methods of work, as well as the choice of technological process, to avoid monotony in work, in order to reduce their impact on the health of the employee. They suggested that point 5 be changed, and it was originally said: “Replace dangerous technological processes or methods of working harmless or less dangerous,” they suggest to delete it and point 5 reads, “Replace dangerous harmless or less dangerous. ” We have suggested that this proposal be changed so that it remains original, that point 5 be replaced by dangerous technological processes or methods of working harmless or less dangerous. We think it's clearer and more appropriate. So point 6. – giving priority to collectively over individual safety and health measures at work, which is quite fine. Point 7. – training staff for safe and healthy work and issuing instructions for work in a safe way. Then they suggested two more points, eight and nine. Point 8. is adapting to technical progress. We have suggested that point 8 reads: "The principle of constant monitoring of technological and technical progress". They proposed point 9, which says: “Development of a coherent overall prevention policy. ” We suggested that point 9 reads: “Development of a coherent overall prevention policy”. We think our proposal is more meaningful and better, and I would ask the minister to reconsider our amendment once more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36761	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36762	In this article, we have managed the EU directive, with which we are obliged to adapt this law and that is the European Commission's position, but rather than whether or not it is the European Commission's position, we have come from the following assumption, which I can say is an axiom, is not an assumption. Here, we are asked to replace the words “adjustment to technical progress, ” that is,“ the principle of constant monitoring of technological progress. ” We think it's not enough to follow, but to adapt, it has to work. So it's not just a termological difference, but we think this is more meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36763	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36764	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman, Article 11, to whom we have submitted the amendment, refers originally to Article 28, which says: "The training of employees for the safe and healthy work of the employer performs theoretically and practically in accordance with the training programme for safe and healthy work, which brings the employer. The check of the theoretical and practical training of the worker for safe and healthy work is carried out at the workplace. Periodic check-ups for the safety and health of an employee working in a job with an increased risk are being carried out," and now, the government is proposing to amend "at the latest within one year". We suggested that it be six months instead of one year, "from the day of the previous checkup, and in other jobs no later than four years from the day of the previous check". That's where we suggested that instead of four years it would be one year. "The training for safe and healthy work is carried out in a language which the employee understands and adapts to the abilities and abilities of persons with disabilities", which is completely understandable and we agree there. We believe that the deadlines for periodic training checks for the safe and healthy work of an employee working in a job with an increased risk should be shortened, and in this regard we have submitted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36765	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36766	The legislator's intention was to establish increased safety at work and to train constantly in the process of production. What did we do? Jobs with increased risk are being checked for a year. We think it's six months too short, and if it weren't for purpose, we'd be overly burdening the employer, especially, say, imagine in the mine, where you have several thousand people, so now every six months to check it out, it would be too much, but that's why we introduced a standard that wasn't so far, that jobs with less risk are being checked at all. So far, there has been no legal obligation, and we've determined four years, which we think is a real deadline.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36767	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36768	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, guests from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, it is good to talk about this amendment, it is good to talk about a member of this law because it aims to take care of the health of our workers and our citizens. I personally think that on behalf of the DS parliamentary group two days ago and I talked about it when we talked about, that we should introduce mandatory systematic checks for all employees, as the SFRY had mandatory medical checks and the health situation in our population was significantly, significantly better at the time. This would be one obligation where men and women over the age of 50, especially women, would necessarily send for breast examinations and examinations of uterus throats, as the most common organs for malignancies, and men for lung examination and for colon examination, as organs where malignancies occur most often. Unfortunately, Serbia is at the top of the European list of malignancies and cardiovascular diseases, according to an assessment by European institutions. Well, if the job is more or less risky, I think it would be best if it were a legal solution, it might not be possible from your work cycle, but along with the Ministry of Health, to impose obligations on employees, i.e. to collectives of republican or city enterprises to send their employees systematically to the reviews once a year and to be continuously doing a screening of our citizens, our workers. I guarantee you that in two, three years, we would have a significantly lower mortality rate than cardiovascular disease, a significantly lower risk and a mortality rate than oncology. So, legal regulation, such as in Germany, such as in some Western European countries, is the obligation of the employer to send an employee and pay for that review to the health institution where he sends it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36769	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36770	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I totally understand why you put a period of employment with increased risk for a year, but I would just remind you of the principle debate when we talked about working medicine, here is a colleague who mentioned medicine, and some medical experience and follow-up of professional illnesses before the law was removed from the financing obligation by the Republic Health Insurance Fund. I mean, I'm giving you a suggestion again, Mr. Minister, that it would be good to return as an obligation to finance medical work in a conversation with your colleagues, especially from the Ministry of Health and the Republic Health Insurance Fund, because that way we will certainly have a permanent monitoring of the disease in the risk places of our employees in the Republic of Serbia. It's left here now, but it's legally regulated that the employer is obliged to conduct periodic checks, but it's done by making contracts. Here she will have the obligation to work medically, as she did, until she has been stripped of her right to continue to monitor and care for the health of the employees, especially at risk places, i.e. at jobs that are at increased risk of injury and disease.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36771	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36772	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in principle I agree with the proposal made by Minister Vulin and those deadlines he set, one year or four years, act and are more appropriate than the amendment proposal, and I see nothing wrong with these short-term proposals. As for these mandatory systematic checks for all employees, it's pretty nice and it looks nice, but the question is how long we can hold out and if we're in a situation now that we can handle it, and for some future time, I agree that it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36773	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36774	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Vulin, a member of the most inefficient government in the world, or one of the most inefficient governments in the world, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13 of the Law on behalf of the Turnover Movement and I have suggested that the words "as soon as possible" be replaced by the words "right now". In legal terms and practices of business law, you know what the word "immediately" means, and the word "as soon as possible" is not common in that termology. That is why the proposal was to replace these words with the word "right away". Why didn't you accept this amendment? The explanation is unclear and I am not satisfied with the explanation. I think this will lead to an application problem. Tell me, please, Mr. Vulin, what does the words “what is possible before” mean to you? The words “immediately ” mean without delay. It is known precisely in the ordinary business right that it is immediately after the present conditions. "As soon as possible" are the slang words that legal termology does not recognize. That's why I suggest you accept this amendment and I hope you've seen the mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36775	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36776	It's always nice to hear when members of the former regime, certainly the most incompetent and one of the most corrupt regimes that we've ever had in this country, the author of robbery privatisation, people who have left over 400,000 people out of work in one attempt only, and in 12 years their government has destroyed our economy thoroughly and effectively, disagreed with the Serbian citizens' assessment that this government is very effective and that this government enjoys citizens' trust, and yet it is being decided in the elections. You know, what you're looking for here isn't real. What does "now" mean? First, you have an obligation to introduce workers to the direction of his movement, where he is allowed, where he is not allowed to come to work. You have to do it. I'll give you an example from comparative practice. In the Slovenian law relating to this, the word "rightly" is put in, and then the decimal is added and it says "as soon as possible". Otherwise, this formula “just as soon as possible” is realistic. What does "now" mean? As soon as you see the worker, you'll meet him. You're not going to, but you're going to do what you owe first, which is to first introduce him to the direction of movement, which is dangerous, which is not dangerous, where he can move. You don't do that right now. That's what you do as soon as a man enters the process of production, not when he's started a working relationship, which could mean right away. It's a termological difference. No one must let a worker enter the drive and move anywhere without warning him of movement and what its options are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36777	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36778	Minister, you have denied yourself, which is not the first time. You quoted parallel legislation, a Slovenian law that says the word "rightly" with an explanation "as soon as possible". Why is it “right away ”? Because it is a term in legal terminology, and this clarification "as soon as possible" is not excessive. "As soon as possible" without the legal term "immediately" creates the possibility that this provision cannot be applied because, in business law, in ordinary business law, which is a source of law as well as law, there is no such term as "as soon as possible", but the term "now" is used. Mr. Vulin, it is no wonder that your results are what they are and that you are among the world's 10 most incompetent governments, the most inefficient governments in the world, and not according to your assessment, but according to official data. So this is about official data. You have some auto-projection of yours here that you are capable, so the citizens of Serbia know very well... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36779	Mr. Veselinović, you've just used your time as an independent MP. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36780	I'd say this time you have is about how capable you are. It's something that citizens decide, and I'm afraid it's a top-notch measure of everyone's ability. Here I wondered when we would stop talking about the amendments, because those who are incompetent cannot discuss the profession and the amendments, but will come to politics and try to argue and try to cause political debate in technical law, and in which there is not a single letter of politics. Okay, everyone has their own voters, especially if they have voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36781	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36782	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Minister, I suggest that this amendment be rejected, so amendment to Article 13. I welcome all the arguments that the minister has made, but also the explanation that the government has given us. First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased by the fact that the esteemed proposer of this amendment has stopped insisting that some movement or a group of citizens, counterpart Risticevic has an even better formula for this – the craftsmanship, has submitted this amendment. So the criticism is probably bearing fruit and it has begun to use the formula that he is the promoter of this amendment, which corresponds to the truth. So, as an independent MP, he submitted this amendment, which is his right. I suggest you say no. I can't help but feel that, as I listen to the explanation of the proposings of this amendment, it reminds me overwhelmingly of Mr Karamark, the president of the HDZ, so the Croatian Democratic Community... (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is this? )......................................................................................................... And in speech, and in formulations. The exact same floscule – the most inefficient government, even its gesticulation is similar... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36783	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36784	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Of course, Article 107, I think you have also allowed Minister Vulin, and after that, you have allowed the MP Markovic to address him in a completely inappropriate way to work with his colleague Janko Veseinović. First of all, we expect the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to lead a serious controversy here with MPs, not to insult them with falsely witty remarks, but to other MPs, exactly who you thanked after the discussion, to allow before in the most harsh way possible insults the MPs who submit amendments and participate in the discussion. If you consider it appropriate to address the MPs in this way, then say so, but then we need to understand that we are having this discussion in such a way. We believe that this is not appropriate, we will not participate in such a discussion, and it is your obligation to disable other MPs, regardless of what you personally think, that they are talking to their colleagues in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36785	First of all, my colleague Jerkov, I can inform you that I turned off both speakers when I estimated that it could cross the limits of good taste, if you remember... (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: it has already passed. That's your assessment, my estimate is that it's not. If you remember, Mr. Janko Veselinovic began his discussion by calling the government the most incompetent government, and calling him one of the most incompetent ministers. And if you expect MPs who support the government to sit on their hands, you're mistaken. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I expect them to defend the government, not insult the MPs of the people. If you expect the minister not to respond afterwards to what he is told, I think it is a natural reaction, and you would do the same if you were Minister Vulin. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: No, I would not insult the messengers. ) Now, you leave me two choices, so as soon as someone comes out of the context of the amendment, I turn off the microphone, or I can hold a more free session, on one condition that all participants in the discussion have equal rights. So, when Mr. Vesenovic had the right to say so, he has the right and Mr. Minister to respond, he has the right and one of the MPs who support the government to respond. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: They can defend the government, not insult the MPs. ) You know what, I said multiple times every action causes a reaction. I'm just looking for the reaction to be proportionate to the action. Nothing more. I don't think it's an injured member of 107. You want us to make a statement in the voting day? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Yes. ) Right to replication, violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36786	Mr. Chairman, Rule 107 has been injured, and that is the dignity of the National Assembly. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: He was now. () Will you allow me, Mr. Chairman, or the session of the water of those who earn and thus violate the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36787	I can't right away, my colleague Babic, as soon as some of them react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36788	Then the 27th Mr. Chairman, if I may, and if my colleague Jerkov and the others are allowed to earn. A breach of the Rules of Procedure has been carried out, and at this moment we have seen that it is an insult, that one MP compares himself to a politician from a neighbouring country, and that man who runs a major party in the neighbouring country, for someone in this National Assembly is an insult. Especially for Mrs. Jerkov. In this way, I think that the good neighbourly relations that we have developed with all countries and in the environment, but also with all countries, are thus being threatened, that even in those times when we have had misunderstandings, such not one single statement could come from either SNS nor from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what just came from Mrs Jerkov, that the humiliation of the MP being compared with Mr Karamark. That's scandalous. On the other hand, I think it's for someone who can't form a group of citizens, let alone a political party, I think a compliment with the president may be the biggest party in the area. A compliment for everyone, except for Mrs Jerkov who, in this way, disturbs Serbia's relations with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36789	Time, Mr. Granny. I'm setting a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36790	Due to some technical problems, we need to take a longer break. Count it as a regular break. I'll see you at 12:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-16-0.u36791	We're going back to work. The amendment, which is added after Article 15a, was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Capo. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure rejected this amendment, and according to Article 4, the amendments rejected cannot be discussed and shall not be voted upon. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28th of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Đorđe Stojsic, mg Dejan Čapo, Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavić, Marko Djurić, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blažje Bradić, Ivan Karić, Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Dejan Nikolic, Ivan Jovanovicović, Dragan Šutanovic, Balša Bozović, mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Jovanavanović, Nataša Vučač, Jocanović, Jovanović and Joorović. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the bill in particular on the conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Chapo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Jovana Jovanovic, Natasa Vuković, Jovan Marković and Aida Ćorović together submitted the 8th amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Balša Bozovic, mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Jovana Jovanovic, Natasa Vuković, Jovan Marković and Aida Ćorović submitted the 9th amendment together. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 18th Amendment were together submitted by the MPs Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, mg Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Jovana Jovanovic, Natasa Vuković, Jovan Marković and Aida Ćorović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Chapo were jointly submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Chapo were jointly submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Chapo were jointly submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Chapo were jointly submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and mg Dejan Chapo were jointly submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general.
