ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28756	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by106 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that the majority of the total number of MPs are present. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time than set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and, exceptionally, for Monday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The National Assembly, because of the need to consider proposals for acts from the proposed agenda as soon as possible. Also, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session will be interrupted at 15.00 hours, because the Third Special Session of the National Assembly in 2015 is scheduled for 1600 hours, and at which the President of the Republic of Italy will address the Members of Parliament, Mr Serjo Matarella's Excellency, and I invite you to attend the session at 1600 hours. You have been presented the minutes of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of that minutes. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 13 and 15 May 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 out of the total of 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda, it is necessary for the Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for urgent action, proposals for supplementing the agenda and on a proposal to merge the debate. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 May 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Do any of these two MPs want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, as the President of the National Assembly announced earlier, have sent a proposal to the assembly procedure to supplement the Law on Higher Education, gentlemen. We referred this bill to the congregation procedure on 26 September 2014. As of 26 September 2014, this bill stands where we left it that day, gentlemen. Despite the fact that, at the beginning of each session and this regular session, we tried to convince the MPs to vote for the fact that this proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education was included in the agenda of that session, the assembly majority here never voted for it. I hope, gentlemen, that today will be different and in an attempt to convince the MPs, and the SNS, and other parties here, I will say the meaning of our bill. The point of our bill, gentlemen, is to bring into the Law on Higher Education the principle of academic integrity for which so far there has been no place in our Law on Higher Education. Academic congratulation, gentlemen, if not known to date, is based on the independent work of writing and strict respect for other people's copyrights. I don't see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why the MPs sitting in this assembly wouldn't vote for it, and here Mr. Arsic is closely monitoring that academic honesty becomes one of the basic principles of higher education in our country. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, that, by opening the debate on this proposal and voting on this bill, as a central political institution in our constitutional system in an appropriate way, we would have responded properly, gentlemen, to the serious violations of the principles of academic integrity, to the flood of plagiarized works and dissertations which we had been exposed in the previous year and a half, and that we had done great damage to what we have done to this day, Mr Arsic, Mrs Gojkovic and the other gentlemen, we have not responded adequately to this great problem. I call upon you today to open a debate and academia, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28758	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 21 April 2015. Do any of the People's Messengers want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28759	Our proposal aims to fix the law that was passed in 2014 and many shortcomings have already been observed. The basis of the bill is the 2003 Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages. We believe that this proposal is a perfectly suitable space and time for us to offer it, so, about the state of Serbia today in 2015. To remind me of some of the things that are in this bill and that should make all MPs aware that it should be put on the agenda, and perhaps adopted, if it is willful or corrected, if it has any faults, which I doubt. These laws are the first to be established in general and define a new Republic Office for Spatial and Urban Planning. The abolished Chamber of Engineering and the established professional chamber of Serbia, introduced contact plan as a phase in the design, extended system of spatial plans of the area, an extended system of urban plans by urban project and regulated ground for villages, an open possibility of citizen review of the plan, for the first time defined specific responsibilities and responsibility for public authorities, given the authority of local self-government to regulate the contents of the plans, the abolished discretionary rights for urban inspection and new technical and operational solutions and procedures introduced. Some of the solutions from 2003 that were abolished by laws that were in the meantime were again affirmed and improved, which is the Strategy for the Spatial Development of Serbia, sectoral spatial development strategy, full independence, choice of local self-government in planning and planning, abolished hierarchy of plans, simplified content of plans, regulation rules have been improved, construction rules have been improved, the Commission for Plans and Professional Control is again affirmed, responsible engineers and personal licenses etc., etc. I hope that more MPs will accept the reality that the existing law does not meet what Serbia needs today, that is, the competent minister has repeated it several times and I think it would be good for Serbia in two ways for this law to be put into practice today. This would prove that this parliament wants to deal with serious bill proposals and others, thus achieving the path towards adopting a good law that would fully regulate the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28760	I'm putting it to a vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 140 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against the Armenians, committed in the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 20 April 2015. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28761	On April 20th, 100 years since the launch of genocide against Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, which has also been condemned by official acts of parliaments or by governments of nearly 30 states around the world. This gave mankind a new standard of evaluation of what and in what way should it no doubt be condemned without ideological, political, national or religious prejudices as something unworthy of humanity. To remind me, similar declarations and resolutions were adopted in the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, the United States, Germany and many other countries. I have already tried several times to put this resolution on the agenda, I reiterated that the citizens of Serbia, the Serb people, the state of Serbia, have a special interest in making this parliament a resolution, because they have been victims of major crimes in the last few decades, or a whole century. On the other hand, accused that some representatives, some of these citizens, allegedly on behalf of citizens of Serbia and the Serbian people and of this state, committed war crimes. We have no reason to be ashamed of our history, perhaps some individuals, some political groups, some political options, some ideologies have reason to be ashamed and not only ashamed but also properly punished, but the state of Serbia, the citizens of Serbia, have no reason to be ashamed of their history. In that sense, with that goal, MP Pavicevic and I propose this resolution, which is absolutely the right measure of responding to what happened 100 years ago. Once again, this resolution has no desire or goal to deal with the current policy of Turkey or these countries that have brought declarations and resolutions, but rather dealing with the condemnation of a clearly defined crime that took place, which began to appear 100 years ago and lasted a good seven years in which several million people of Armenian nationality were killed in the most playful way. I hope you will do this to make Serbia part of this group of countries that have found the right way to condemn this genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28762	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the definition of public interest and specific procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 May 2015. Since the conditions of the National Assembly are not met, it is part of Article 154 of the proposal. The Rules of Procedure provide that the draft law may be incorporated into the agenda of the sitting within not less than 15 days of the date of its submission, this proposal was submitted on 15 May 2015. So the conditions are met in 15 days. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Preld's Law on Special Conditions and How to reconcile the obligations of residents of residential credits, with a currency clause in Swiss francs, which a group of 12 MPs from Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZ, submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28763	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I will still try to call on the MPs today to ask the MPs to protect the interests of the citizens of Serbia, rather than the financial institutions, better said, managers who earn huge amounts of money based on the green interest that these banks have. So it's not even about bank employees. These bank employees receive small profits, but that's why managers make enormous amounts just because of green interest. Not only for interest, but also for expenses that citizens can't trace and which they can hardly get, if they don't ask the bank for a report that takes their money. To be clear, this is about three laws amending the National Bank Act, amending the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services and a special law on savings that have a currency clause. So this is about protecting all users of financial services, all citizens. So, some want to replace the thesis, say it's a certain group of citizens. No, this is about every one of us, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has any contact with the bank, who receives a pension through the bank, who receives a salary through the bank, who took a loan, which had a minus on the current account. So these laws refer to these questions. They not only regulate the position of credit users who took loans indexed in Swiss francs. Of course, I can't influence you that while I'm asking you to support this law and protect the citizens, you're talking to each other, you're dealing with other topics, which unfortunately won't help the citizens of Serbia. Regardless of my requests and the appeal to accept laws that would make citizens their rights to protection in the institution, and not in other ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28764	Time. Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – one abstention – there is no, 136 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28765	Thank you, Madam Chairman. At the beginning of each session, and this is the sixth time, I propose to the National Assembly to accept my proposal and put into the agenda a proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act, which would greatly help citizens of Serbia. In these two minutes, I'll try to explain what's going on. Thus, the Health Insurance Act at point 41 speaks of who has the right to treat mouth and teeth, i.e. popularly put on dental repair through the financing of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, i.e. with the help of a certified health book. This article says that this type of service can be under 18 years old, students and high school children up to 26 years of age, pregnant women and certain types of patients who have certain specific diseases, that I do not now list them all. What I'm proposing is that we amend Article 41. The Health Insurance Act and we give the right to all citizens to have the possibility to treat their mouths and teeth on the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and I am talking about a figure of over four and a half million of our citizens in the Republic of Serbia. What is a paradox, these four and a half million are a working-age population that pays contributions to health care, and only has no right to burden the Fund, i.e. on the burden of money collected by the payment of these contributions, repairs its teeth and cures mouth disease. Every time I presented this proposal, I appealed, first of all, to fellow Members of the Doctors, and to other colleagues, to accept my proposal for a simple reason why this does not require an increase in working-contracted doctors and nurses in healthcare organisations, the primary health level, or to seek additional resources, because at the position of the dental health care of the Republic Health Insurance Fund there are unaligned over 350 million dinars, which is more than enough to buy additional material so that these services can be provided to our fellow citizens. I appeal once again, first of all, to my colleagues and then to all the MPs to accept my proposal and to meet the citizens of Serbia, because we live in a very difficult time, when very few of our fellow citizens can spare money to go to private dentists and give them a chance to fix their teeth and cure their mouth disease on the burden of the Republic Fund that they fill with their means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28766	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which was submitted by a group of 12 MPs from Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, on 25 February 2015. Does the MP want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28767	Thank you. Every day 50% of Serbian citizens, those who earn or have some income lie and get up with the problem of their banks taking away their property, their assets without any state protection. We asked to amend the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services which would introduce the possibility of citizens living and returning loans or any other obligations they have to banks. How can someone live, I also ask people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, when his salary for credit is two or three times higher than his salary, and often twice as high even if both spouses work? We have provided for this Act on the Protection of Financial Services that the provisions of the general conditions of business which are contrary to the basic contract are nothing. What's going on? Citizens conclude the contract, and the bank's general terms introduce new and new obligations that citizens cannot carry out. We asked that the credit war couldn't be done in case it increased to be greater than 50% of the citizen's income. So, to allow citizens, once again, to live and return loans. They won't have anyone to repay those loans when the citizens go bankrupt. This is in the interest of both states and citizens, because the Deposit Insurance Agency will be the one to repay these loans on behalf of citizens and the state will have problems all because of the high salaries of managers, I repeat once again, and the green interest and profits they have, not workers in banks that are paid badly. The money from citizens goes to managers and their parent companies, which are often not from Serbia and in fact only operate in markets such as ours where citizens are not protected from the National Bank, as is the case with us, where the National Bank takes care of large capital, takes care of itself, even by law prescribed that there is no responsibility for its business obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28768	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which was submitted by a group of 12 MPs from the Boris Tadic group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, on 25 February 2015. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28769	I ask MPs and MPs to rise from party disciplines and vote in favour of citizens, not in favour of large financial interests, I often say that they have nothing to do with the citizens of Serbia. So this law amending the Law on the National Bank has only prescribed that the National Bank, governor of the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, has one additional obligation, which is to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia alongside the banks. It is not clear to me how that you will not accept the amendment of the law that says that, in addition to other obligations, the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia will also carry out the protection of the rights and interests of the users of the services provided by the banks and that in the event of a disturbance on the financial market, which causes excessive damage, users of these services will have protection with the National Bank. I do not understand how the MPs of the majority, the Serbian Progressive Party, the Socialist Party and other parties, do not accept the obligation of the National Bank to protect citizens' interests. Why do you refuse the National Bank to be a people's bank, so in its word it has "national" without being a bank of large financial capital where Serbian citizens' money goes into the pockets of the bank's manager? Once again, it's not just about users of credit in Swiss francs, so it's about those in euros, but it's about all financial services users, each of you. You all felt, when you got a bank bill, that the bank was taking what wasn't right for it. I do not understand why, I am looking at you, too, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, do not propose these changes, which in a minimal way protect the citizens of Serbia, the users of financial services and enable the National Bank to in some way curb green interest and unreal costs that are not provided for in the contract. That's why I'm asking you once again to protect the citizens without protecting the large capital and the managers of the umbrellas in those banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28770	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 145, out of the 160 MPs present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, on the basis of Article 92(2) and (4), suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act, of 22 April 2015. A year. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28771	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'd just like to ask you to repeat the law, I haven't heard you from the noise in the O.R., that I know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28772	I mean, it's not like there's some noise, you know, people behind you from this club next door, but you hear me. Information and media.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28773	Thank you. Dear Parliament Speakers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this is the fourth time I have proposed amendments, i.e. I propose to include in the agenda the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Information and Media and the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services. What's this about? In just over a month, local self-government will lose the right to finance local public media services from their budgets. Then we will get the next situation in the Republic of Serbia, that we have citizens of first and second order, when we talk about public media services, information and the availability of all citizens to these public media services. Under the law we passed last year, I think in June of the month, public media service in the territory of the Republic of Serbia exists as RTS, radio-television of Serbia, radio-television of Vojvodina, and by June were local television stations that were local public media services. The moment we become a congregation decision, i.e. By legal provision interrupted at the bar to finance media services, citizens south of Sava and Danube will lose the possibility of informing from their surroundings and everything that is important for the work and functioning of a community, whether it is Shabac, whether it is Nis, Dimitrovgrad, Pirot, Zaječar, Raška, Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Kraljeno, Kragujevac, Jagodina. We'll be directed to get all the information, as far as the public media service and which belong to its domain, through RTS. We're witnessing, and each of you can confirm how much through RTS information is available from his place. It's not because RTS doesn't want it, but physically it can't achieve it. It is necessary to accept our proposal to amend the law, in order to have south of Sava and Danube regional public service that would have the same rights and obligations as, say, Vojvodina Radio-Television. I suggested that it be a minimum of two television channels and a minimum of three radio channels, in order to meet the needs of citizens who lose in June of that possibility under the same conditions to have the possibility of public media information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28774	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 146, of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28775	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll keep going. So, since June, we will have citizens who pay a television subscription and have the possibility of a public media service, I mean the people of Vojvodina and I mean the citizens of the city of Belgrade, and we will have those who will pay the television subscription neatly, but will not have the possibility of the same information as those living in Belgrade and Vojvodina. That is why I appeal, dear colleagues, to accept my proposal and to amend the Media and Media Services Act, so that all citizens have the same rights and obligations in this Republic. Because it's okay to pay a television subscription, and it costs and we need to finance it, but with the obligation to pay, we can also have the right to use. Let each of those who live under the Sava and the Danube and who, where they come from as a national envoy, say whether his place is sufficiently represented in the information through RTS. I'm sure he didn't. Well, Nis has no more than 15 seconds a day in the rosary, and Nis has 250,000 inhabitants. I repeat, therefore, that it is necessary to amend the law and introduce into the law a regional public media service that will deal with the problems of citizens, living under Sava and Danube, and RTS and RTV will be an option and the option of choosing to follow information in the territory of the Republic, not as the only option. It's nice to know I'm from Nis whether tram number 6 goes to the final station, whether there's water in Karaburma, but I don't want to have that as basic information, I want to have it as additional information if I want to hear it. I'm interested in what's going on in my hometown, as you're probably interested in what's going on in your Šapco, Užica, Prijedor, Novi Varosha, Dimitrovgrad, Pirota, Prokuplje, Vranja, not whether there's water under the Sava Bridge. That is why I urge, dear colleagues, to accept this proposal of mine in order to equalise Serbia's citizens in rights and obligations. Yes, someone will say - there is a possibility in the law to additionally finance some of the electronic media in order for each local community to address its citizens further, as far as the general public service is concerned. Yeah, but it's an extra cost from the local self-government budget. I insist that we have the same right to use that subscription that we all pay, as is done in Vojvodina and as is done in Belgrade. I'm not saying that because I want them to get reduced rights, no, that's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28776	Time, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 149 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Freedom of Fear, which was submitted by a group of 19 MPs on 20 November 2014. Borislav Stefanovic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 150 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who submitted a group of 16 MPs to the Democratic Party on 9 April 2015. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28777	Thank you. I propose to the National Assembly that most votes adopt a proposal on the establishment of a committee of inquiry, which would consist of one MP from each parliamentary group, and I am ready to accept, on behalf of the MPs, an amendment to include one representative of the group of independent MPs, that the National Assembly president appoints the first session of the group, chaired by the oldest MP, and to elect among themselves the deputy chairman of the polling committee. The aim of the survey committee's work is to determine the circumstances and facts that do not exist in the reports available to the public, which were done seven days after the tragedy in which seven people lost their lives. Two basic questions have no answer, which is - who is and based on what and how did the Secretary of Defense inform about the need to launch a rescue helicopter mission? On what grounds did the minister make such a decision, which he or she then ordinarily passed past the Chief of Staff to the person responsible for the subordination? This is a very important issue and key to understanding whose political responsibility is at stake. Secondly, who changed the flight plan once the rescue mission was launched and when all the findings in the subordination were given, since there is no answer either. The reactions we have received represent a kind of mockery of the rule of law because we are told that the polling committee is a political performance. I trust all those who comment that way because that's what the board of inquiry looks like from the point of view of someone who has genuine ignorance of the rule of law. That is why I think it is good for everyone to put the vote on the agenda today at which we will decide on the establishment of a polling committee. This is the last session in a regular spring session where we have a chance to propose. During the extraordinary session, there is no change in the agenda, and unless there is reason today and we adopt such a decision, we will continue during the autumn session to look for a committee of inquiry because it is a defense of the rule of law, because it is a debt to the people who have died. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28778	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's MP suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28779	Thank you, Madam President. This is the seventh or eighth time I've proposed the same bill. My bill consists of only one member, or proposal to include in the list of crimes that do not go out of date and to steal babies. The story is also very simple for him. On March 5th 2013, the European Court of Human Rights issued its decision that the Republic of Serbia had violated the right to privacy and family life of our fellow citizen Zorica Jovanovic, who stole a child in 1983, and that same decision obliged the Republic of Serbia to adopt legislation by September 2014 to prevent these things from happening further, but also to remain unresolved. Since I have never heard a single word so far about why MPs refuse to adopt such a bill without having new arguments, I will try to convince you like this. Why does MP Dragan Aleksic not want to include baby theft in the list of crimes that do not go out of date? Why does MP Alexic Irene not want to be included in the list of crimes that do not go out of date in stealing babies? Why does the MP of Anastasia's Adrian not want to be included in the list of crimes that do not go out of date in stealing babies? Why doesn't MP Antić Zoran want to be included in the list of crimes that don't go out of date in stealing babies? Why does MP Arsic Veroljub, vice president of the National Assembly, not want to include baby theft in the list of crimes that do not go out of date? Why does MP Atlagic Marko not want to include baby theft in the list of crimes that do not go out of date? Why doesn't MP Babić Vlado want to be included in the list of crimes that don't go out of date in stealing babies? Why does MP Babić Zoran not want to be included in the list of crimes that do not go out of date in stealing babies? Why does MP Barisic Dragana not want to include baby theft in the list of crimes that do not go out of date? Why does MP Beric Nebojsa not want to include baby theft in the list of crimes that do not go out of date? Why does MP Beronja Ljiljana not want to be included in the list of crimes that do not go out of date in stealing babies? Why does MP Bečić Igor, vice president of the assembly, not want to be included in the list of crimes that do not go out of date in stealing babies? Why does MP Birmancevic Boban not want to be included in the list of crimes that do not go out of date in stealing babies?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28780	Thank you. Thank you. I'm putting this bill to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – one, the abstentioned – there is no, 142 of the 161 MP present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic proposed that a joint principled review be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation and Proposal for Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Standardisation Act. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this bill to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, v – 14, abstentions – no, no, 20 of the 161 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 130, against – five, abstention – no one voted 28 of the 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatisation Act, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Standardisation Act, 3. Proposal for a decision on the choice of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality. We're going to work on a set agenda. I'm asking the minister to enter the O.R. with his associates. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Minister of Business Željko Sertić, Assistant Minister of Business Jelena Popović, Deputy Minister of Business Milan Trivunac, Ljubomir Šubara, Director of the Privatisation Agency, Dragan Ugričić, Director of the Centre for Privatisation, Jelena Arsić and Andrijana Stojković, Senior Legal Advisors at the Privatisation Agency, Marko Obradović, Special Advisor of the Economy Minister, Stanka Vukković, Head of the Department of the Privatisation Agency and Jovan Petrovic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Industry. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with the order of the Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Standardisation Act. Does Minister of Business Proposer Zeljko Sertic want a word? Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28781	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I am here with my colleagues in front of you with the amendment and addition of the Law on Privatisation and the Standardisation Act, so that in one part of this first law we can finally solve the problem of more than two decades, which is the privatisation process. First, I would like to thank all parliamentary groups and coalitions in power, but also the opposition parliamentary groups, who accepted the invitation to discuss the Law on Privatisation and Standardisation on Friday. Why was that important to us? Just because this law was passed by emergency procedure, because of the deadlines we have, we wanted to talk to all of you about the consequences, the current solutions and what was going on and what caused us to address you today and ask for your support. At one of those meetings someone asked me – Minister, how are you going to solve the hot potatoes you got? Yes, that's right, it's a hot potato issue that we received as a government last August when it was voted in this assembly, the new Government of the Republic of Serbia, on August 28th. One of the biggest problems, one of the biggest hot potatoes we got in our hands, was the 500 companies and the privatisation process. My answer to that is, and I'm going to quote a great man, because I read a great statement of his in some text, former President Abraham Lincoln, who said - you can't escape from tomorrow by avoiding her today. My answer to that is, I fully accept responsibility for every move this government makes. I, as Minister, accept every act that we have done in this privatisation process in the previous period and accept full responsibility for what I am saying on behalf of future generations and on behalf of all those who will someday deal with business or be executives, have their own companies or sit here in this Assembly, and will never again talk about the problems that we are talking about today, because today I regret to accept the responsibility and some of my predecessors whose policy has been above the economy. Unfortunately, today we're talking about over 500 companies that are in total chaos. Five hundred companies that no one or no one wanted to privatise from 2000 to today or are unfortunately, and as statistics tell us, a large part of them were once sold, and then robbed, destroyed, devastated, returned to the aging state. We have 526 companies of which few of them can hold a competition, because technology in them is over 35 years old. How do they play the same game with companies that are already in the 21st century? The largest number of experts, highly qualified educated workers, managers, engineers have long since left these factories, these companies. The total amount of debt these companies have far exceeds all the assets they have both mobile and immovable. So, both the storage spaces and what's in them and the facilities and the rights they have. Only 50 companies on the list owe the state and commercial creditors four billion euros. Imagine that we have that money in circulation today in Serbia's economic life. So these are the problems we've faced. That's the stuff and legacy we left behind. Do you know what the most devastating thing about all this is and what is the greatest fact against the story of the privatisation process? Well, in six recent years, so from 2009, to this day, no single privatisation has been made. More than 3,000 companies were sold between 2000 and 2009. No privatisation has been done in the last six years. Someone wasn't interested or anything. Now I ask you openly – can we even talk about this part of the process today as privatisation? Privatization was done long ago. Today we are talking about another model of how to look at the problems of 526 companies, how to segment them and how to do the process best and purest for the future of our generations. And the problems with them, as I have already said, are serious. What did politics do in previous years? The easiest thing was to get your hand into the state budget, take the money and forward it. How many companies are rebelling, how any strike goes, you just give money. Billions have gone from the state budget to help businesses primarily restructure but there are no others. A good idea that was made in 2005 for some companies, for large giants who once represented the economic spine and the development of the Serbian economy, during a period of protection, very short and to be restructured for themselves, I repeat, for several businesses and for a short time. We came into a situation ten years later today that based on political arrangements, the head of municipalities, applications, agreements, who knows what, we have a few dozen companies protected. Last year, when you and I voted the Privatisation Act in August of the month, there were 144 companies on the list of the Privatisation Agency that had a special regime. Is it possible that we really had 144 giants and it was really possible that for ten years we couldn't do it, and none of the companies were changed, none of them were restructured in the way it was imagined at first and in the way it was supposed to be done. Then we're talking economics or we're talking politics. Well, this government and I as Minister of Economy and Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic are breaking up with the process of economic utopia. You can't work anymore, you can't get money out of the company without it being economical. I can't give any more money out of the budget unless it's economically justified. Instead of dealing with development programs of these millions of people already working in the real sector, we support them to be as many as possible, to have young people open up companies, to be as many entrepreneurs as possible, we give our energy and unfortunately the largest number of money to companies that have long lost their essence. You know of the World Bank data that calculated that every year Serbia paid 750m euros for these companies. It is not accurate in the sense that so much money has been given out of the budget each year, but it is the fact that these companies did not pay their obligations, neither Elektroprivreda, nor "The Roads of Serbia", or "The Railways", or "Electrodition", these companies did not pay their taxes and contributions to local self-government, without talking about taxes and contributions from workers, and where taxes on profits and all that was meant to be. It's not a sustainable economy. It's not an economy we can face. I don't want to be a politician who keeps the dark still in that part and pretend like nothing's going on. No, just because I'm in the economy, just because I spent 25 years in the private sector, I want the private sector to have a future in this country. He can't have unless we have structural reforms done to the end. What we started was just the beginning of serious reforms that have to be implemented in order to be able to say in five or ten years that we have done something of quality and good in this country. The way it's been done so far is not in any way prosperous. What happened? What happened the moment we passed the law in August and when the political decision was defined that this process must be completed. I won't lie to you. I didn't know what chaos I was going into when I took an oath here on September 3rd. I didn't know what kind of obstruction we were facing. I didn't know about all the weaknesses of the system we have, and especially of the stakeholders who weren't interested in the privatisation process ending. What was the question? In what way? I, as someone who spent his whole life in the economy, didn't do it, I wasn't there to see those processes. I'm sure none of you, or most of you, have that information either, and they don't know what kind of problems we have. Unfortunately, those who should have known that, those who ran this country for 15 years and ran the economy, obviously did not know or perhaps did. The other question is, that was asked the other day in our conversation, and what did you do for your seven months, Mr. Minister? Now I'm going to tell you, not what was done in seven months, but what was done from the moment the law was applied and the moment the new government in this assembly took its oath. So, first of all, we have stopped funding companies that do not have economically sustainable growth and cannot represent the future of this country. We've started arresting all the con men in them and there's gonna be more arrests. People need to know we found out about the chaos companies. Companies that did not pay their obligations to the state through excise duties, taxes and contributions. The directors had the most expensive limos in the country, the highest salary of several hundred thousand dinars, not to mention other frauds that were made. The consulting contracts for the company's development, so you don't have one piece of paper anywhere, let alone the results of the work that left behind and that something was made during that period. We started changing people. Look today, a lot of data has been published for "The Iron." Although we have failed to complete the privatisation process successfully, we have made the management of the contract that "Gelezara" is at this point almost at that point of transition, at least at a positive zero. Twelve million dollars every month was minus. Why? The capable people know how to do it, they have different conditions. We need the help of both strangers and all who are well-intentioned in this country. In a month or two, when "The Iron" opens the second furnace, we will have a profitable "The Iron". Most importantly, from the first moment, when the new management came into force, it began to pay its commitments both to the EPS and to the "Serbigas" and "Serbs of Serbia", according to all those who make economic life here in Serbia alive and healthy. Look at Galenika and what the new management has done in a short time. I think it's the only pharmaceutical house in Europe that has a minus, which has losses. Here, Galenika returns to its feet. Petrochemy, with all the problems we have with the price of gas, is recorded for the first time in April, after many years, a positive result, not counting interest and other fiscal burdens. Economics know what that means. Look at the other companies. Simpo received two and a half million contracts to equip the Hilton Hotel. We've made a social program, we've introduced new management, we've taken all the unnecessary costs down. Simpo had hundreds of employees per facility that didn't work. We can't live in the past, people. If we cut something, we don't have to shut it all down, we don't need everything that can result from making it bad, but we can't even take the old principles of management and work to make a step in the future. I could list here for hours, for every company in the previous period, dozens of companies where we were able to get in to make a positive result and turn around, prepare the companies, not to keep the state owned, but to turn these companies into profitable centres or at least be around zero, so that there would be interested businessmen and investors to get in. Do you really think that in 2015, where the whole world is offering something, someone will come into our company, which has failed, which owes tens of millions of euros, and to say – great, here we are going to buy, to cover all these costs, 20, 30, 50 million, give us all the workers and we will make a new programme. Guys, it's utopia, it doesn't exist. For 10.20m euros, you make the best factory in the meadow, no debts, no questions asked how to work and how you can take a step into the future. What is more important is very clear for all 526 companies segmented parts in which way and what, in which direction the company can go. We held hundreds of meetings, not with union leaders, Orbovic, Canko and others at the top of the pyramid, but with representatives of the workers of almost all the largest factories mentioned in the state, and with the border unions, so there were working groups where we talked about what to do. No one wanted to take responsibility for himself and say it—so it's impossible. Everybody's got some ideas. We're a country full of ideas and nowhere to be realized. When you say, to those who have big ideas, give me, here's the law, here's your rules, you know what your status is inside your companies, a proposal for how to do that privatisation, everyone gets away from it, and the first one goes on TV, radio, media, and they say, we have great ideas to solve a company. I opened it for each of the interested parties, every day he could go in with my associates or me personally and talk about concrete moves in which to function. The other thing, the question arises – what did you do? You've made 12 announcements and two privatisations. Since nothing has been done for six years, after six years at the Privatisation Agency, we have found complete chaos, no documentation, no papers, no contracts, no proposal for a regulation on how to do privatisation, Mr. Shubara has been appointed New Year's Director. In fact, the serious work began at that moment when people realized that the process would really be over. It's like people were sleeping, like we don't want to do it, like we should leave this country to someone else, not our children and generations to come. Where is this personal responsibility compared to all the processes in which we live and in which we work? Five hundred twenty-six companies are currently listed as the Privatisation Agency. Three hundred thirty-eight companies, their process of plan, work, the resolution announcement was completed on July 1st. Three hundred thirty-eight companies is July 1st... It's a finished story. We're left with 188 companies. One part's in restructuring, one part's out of it. You had these big companies. "Lasta" and "Simpo" were not protected enterprises. The creditors could have charged all of them, but we've been working hard to talk to the banks, with private trusts, and with all those public enterprises that these companies owe to -- let's go back to functioning, let's get those companies back to life, you'll get your debts, rather than put everything into bankruptcy and end that part. In some big systems, that's how it is. We had in that action plan, in January of the month, 188 companies that we put into bankruptcy. Out of that, 75 companies didn't have any employees. It wasn't done. Something that was just paperwork, and it hasn't been done in the past six years either. And then the question arises – why didn't you pack up all 500 companies in seven months and sell them? It's also the success of these 12 that's been announced. Two of us are done. By the end of this week there will be 25, 26 more announcements. So, we're going to have 40 companies that have packed the paperwork in a legal way, according to all the rules on how it was supposed to be done. And it will be revealed. All that we've done in the past seven months, please don't throw under the water, don't let the legal system and the law that's standing in front of us prevent us from completing the processes we've launched. The point is only one thing. For one second, I'm not asking you to extend the privatisation process, to extend someone's agony or to give false hope, I'm just asking you to bring the process. Because we're not to blame for what happened in the past few years. We'd like to ask you for a change of laws. First of all, to all companies that end up with this Sunday, or May 31st, announce calls, to allow us until the third call to protect these companies, so that we don't get into any trustees, because that moment, that privatisation falls into the water. At that moment, we must withdraw both FAP and all those who have already signed up. We need some more time, so we can see that all these companies are being prepared for whatever is required legally. What's written in the bill, and what's very important, we're not looking for unlimited. We don't want to play with you, make phone calls, do more stuff. We're looking for an exact until October 31st protection for companies. These companies will be, on 31 October, these 40 that I have listed, or defined and sold, so you will know who the strategic partner is, or who bought the property or the capital, or you will go into bankruptcy, bankruptcy, liquidation or otherwise, as defined. We need you to agree that as a government we can responsibly bring in a small number of enterprises up to a year's protection from forced collection. So, I'm talking about a small number of companies, which are in line with both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which aren't going to fail, because we've explained to them what we've found, what's been going on in these seven months, how much work has been done and what we need to do to bring this process to an end. We just need a little more. The Belgrade agricultural combination, our largest dairy producer, one of the biggest things, takes another month or two to finish legal work. Who will answer, what will be the conditions of the competition, I am the first minister to allow no privatisation in which any tycoon or anyone else will buy the company, only to disintegrate and build buildings in two or three years. And so far, we have an unprecedented number of cases. We have IMT in New Belgrade, you have BIP next to Gazela, you have many companies that have a huge value of land. The state is the biggest trustee. We've given billions. Is there a right for the state to return something for itself, so that through the money that it earns to invest in the real sector, to enable tomorrow and less taxes and contributions and to relax those who themselves work to get something? It is a policy of responsibility led by both Prime Minister Vukic and we as ministers, each of us. And everyone who deals in business, in opposition and in all other places. All MPs who have any contact with the business community know that there is no business organisation, association, chamber, foreign investor who has come to Serbia without being personally accepted by the prime minister. This has never happened in Serbia. He was never so interested in raising the country's economy. He was never interested in telling people the truth openly. How long are we gonna hide? I don't want to do it at the minister's post. The prime minister has his own political path and the man has also taken full responsibility for all the jobs that are being done today. I ask you to allow us these amendments to the law to put an end to this process once. It's been going on too long, for over two decades, and it's a cancer society. There are companies that can survive, there are companies that we've trained and brought back to life, there's companies that were in terrible debt until yesterday, without a single job. Today you have Jumko with 1700 employees, with 12m euros in contracts. No one will buy Jumko for three halls, but they will buy for the contract. That's why we need time. He can't do it overnight. You can't do all these paperwork, legal, administrative, because we're going too late. Why? I told you why – six years nothing has been done, no regulations, no documents, no privatisations have been published, neither prepared, nor anyone has been interested in doing so. Once again, I ask for your support to put a real point on the privatisation law this way and turn to the future. When we talk about the future, when we talk about what the future of this country is, in economic terms, it's a sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. Over 99% of the NSP sector is Serbia's economy. Today we have a very important law ahead of you, i.e. amendments and additions to the Standardisation Act, which will allow us to just support the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. I don't know if you know, there are 22,000 standards defined in the EU. We made a commitment to follow them and to meet our legislation and our standards with them. We need to comply with Regulation 1025 of the EU. My colleague, who sits next to me, and her entire team has done a huge job in the previous period, 95% of all EU standards have been implemented in Serbia. But there are some other things that we need to do, just to give the small and medium-sized business sector a chance that it can affect our standards and through us in Europe. We need, first of all, the Institute of Standardization to become a full member of all international organisations, primarily in the Brussels membership, which is very important to us. To set this up, we need amendments and additions to the law, where we will allow the Institute to have its own indigenous revenues, because the intensity in the entire EU, where it is also similar, is that most of the costs are covered by the Member States in their institutions dealing with it, but the desire and intention is to provide as much funds from consulting services and other services that must be present in that part. 95% of all standards were applied, but a small number of standards were translated into Serbian. We need to focus on raising the capacity of small businesses, which cannot do it on their own, we need to invest in training, we need to give them standards in Serbian, so that people understand best. Because all the people who work at the Institute, when they're working groups, work directly in English and unfortunately because of lack of enough resources, that's how things work. But it is important that we have done business, that the standards will be made publicly available from now on, not only through the "Official Messenger", but will be available on the Institute's website, that transparency of all processes, and decision-making and work and development of the future can be present. That's why it's important, and that's why it's one of the key things that we're asking you to change the Standardisation Act. In the end, I suggest, given that we have this beautiful synonym for standards, I suggest that today we introduce some standards here in the Assembly, which will allow us to fight with arguments, to fight with facts, not false accusations of who is, where, why, and for what he did. Please, the economy is the common interest of all citizens of Serbia. I think it's more than clear, more than ever, that if we don't have a long-term long-term economy on a healthy basis, with prospective companies following international rules, the question is how does someone see the future and statehood of our country? So I ask you on that behalf to turn to the future, to watch future events, and if I as minister can take responsibility for myself, to talk to all strikers, to all the workers, to all the directors, where conversations are not pleasant at all, because you need someone to tear down some wishes. They lived in the hope that the state would come with a magic wand to change something. He won't. As a responsible state, I would like to remind you, outside of all the real possibilities of our country, we have provided a 16 billion dinar transition fund to help those who, unfortunately, run out of work, help to have one piece at least at some point, the security that those basics of their family obligations can meet. I'm not gonna lie to you, just like I did before when I said what problem we found, so I'm not lying to you now. Yes, there will be layoffs, there will be workers who will be out of work, there will be enterprises that must go bankrupt, but bankruptcy is not a bogeyman. The bankruptcy is a way for the company to find a way to live. I'm sure you all come from different cities and municipalities of Serbia, I'm sure each of you can list companies that were in bankruptcy, which are now privatized, where workers, where they started working, where renewable production started, but these companies are now completely healthy, with a whole new perspective. Don't let us present things to people the way they aren't. From what needs to be more positive, to make bad, and from what is bad, to celebrate, because it is not in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, it is not in the interests of our children or the future. I ask you once again to support the amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation, Amendments and Supplements of the Standardisation Act, in order to make a better life and not to regret it on the basis of this Lincoln sentence that in the future we cannot delay things in the future if we move them indefinitely today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28782	Thank you. Do any of the boards of directors want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28783	Madam President, distinguished Minister Sertic, distinguished guests from the Ministry of Economy, you have had a good opening and less – you have mentioned more and more what is important and therefore the New Serbia Parliament Club will support amendments to both the Law on Privatisation and amendments to the Standardisation Act in the day of voting. What's important, what needs to bring about these changes, first of all, I'm going to look back at the changes to the Privatisation Act, is to stop one permanent bleeding of the Serbian budget. You mentioned a World Bank study, which said that some $750m per year is allocated from the Serbian budget to different types of incentives and subsidies to firms in restructuring, and we have over 500. But what I would particularly point out is that one detail that you mentioned, which is that years have passed, problems have accumulated, and no one has solved these problems. We had a respected one of your predecessors, Minister Dinkic, who introduced politics to that ministry and made that number of restructure companies that he made, but unfortunately, we're not in a situation here to see the stenograms, something we used to say. I was in August of the month, when we brought amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation and when your place was respected Minister Vujovic, who with a lot of enthusiasm exposed these changes, and then I said that the newspapers that brought these changes, which is a model of privatisation through the acquisition of assets and capital to the company in practice will bring stagnation and bring problems. Unfortunately, it is probably Minister Vujovic at the time, and all of us MPs were at that point eager for justice, above all, because we were aware until that moment that privatisation was under way in Serbia, which was conducted either auctioned or tendered. We've all witnessed that, I must say, it's a lot of thieving, but on the other hand, we have one-third of the broken purchase contracts to companies that were once sold and twice. So, now we're talking about companies in restructuring that have 526, but all these companies have already been sold once and the state has already settled down, and some of them, unfortunately, twice. What I must specifically mention, Mr. Minister, is sitting next to you and the director of the Privatisation Agency, is the responsibility of leading people at the Privatisation Agency for all previous years. It has to be pointed out here in particular. As a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have repeatedly been initiator to publicly announce the receipts, i.e. the salaries of these so-called so-called ‘initiators’. the manager or representative of state capital in restructure firms. These receipts were hundreds of thousands of dinars, and somewhere five times larger than the receipts of the MPs, and absolutely no one knew, nor did anyone look back on it. We came here as far as we came, and it was one of the main obstructions that this privatisation process ended as soon as possible, because why would someone go to privatization and collect hard-core papers if they could sit in a company, a bunch of losses, nothing to pay anyone, not electricity, not gas, not any commitment, the state gives him subsidies, pays the salary, and so you could, which you could say, we'd go on from year to year, but it's a good thing that there was a conclusion and, let me say, to one end where things would have to be looked at in the right way. When I say look at them the right way, you mentioned two groups of companies here. One is a group of companies that the state recognized as companies of national interest. I would say, because of the citizens who are monitoring this transmission and this exposure, that among them are very important enterprises for the state of Serbia, such as the Mining Basen Bor, Azotara, etc. There are around 20,000 employees in these companies, and it is good that the state has made it clear and loud for that time period to protect the accounts of these companies for up to a year, that there will be no forced blockades, and that the longest in a year and their status will be resolved. The second group of companies are just the companies that will protect the Privatisation Agency by the end of May, and to remind all of us that the existing law provides for companies, and special firms in restructuring, from creditors by the end of May. If we have about thirty-something companies that will show up for sale and will publish the Privatisation Agency in the next few days, it is normal to wait for this process to end and not come, because who will buy if we start with the first, second or third publication, and this can all last for the longest until 31 October 2015. It is normal to protect them and try to at least 30 or 35 companies that will show up for sale, once again to point out, by taking over property and capital, first of all, that this process will end. This process itself, many fellow MPs will ask here – why is it taking so long? I have to say, there are a few objective reasons, first of all, to assess these companies. You have already noted in the opening statement that unfortunately, economists, we have engineers from the same schools, the same colleges, but these engineers, these economists, they give me estimates that up to ten times for the same firm are different depending on the house. That's one problem, when you get an estimate, I don't know, a wallet or any other firm, which is unnaturally large, it automatically rejects a potential buyer. On the other hand, we have, unfortunately, the problem that these same managers who have obstructed this whole story were supposed to do a business project for that company that the future buyer is due to take over tomorrow. That was an additional problem in the law. I also talked about it in August 2015, but unfortunately, it was then accepted. As a member of parliament, I voted for it myself, hoping that the situation would be resolved over time. But unfortunately, we saw that she hadn't gotten rid of it. What's the additional problem? You now have to get the consent of all private creditors to publish one company for sale. In practice it is extremely difficult and what we have managed to make these about thirty companies public by the end of this month, I honestly consider great success, because one of these companies is also a company from the municipality of Topola, where I come from, “Livnica” Topola, and I know from practice how difficult this is. On the other hand, what we need to understand, and for companies, and these are going to be about 400 and something companies that will go bankrupt after this process, is bankruptcy when you say, first of all, to employees in these companies that it's a difficult thing, but it can be a cure. It is a bitter medicine once, but here, you have mentioned a lot of municipalities in Serbia. I've been running Topola County for about ten years now, and I could also see what it means when you're raising companies that went bankrupt. We have examples of companies that have been sold twice, but who have had a new life out of bankruptcy and have been given the opportunity to do normal business and to continue to employ people. But, ladies and gentlemen, what you have to tell the MPs clearly is that what we are bringing today and what citizens need to know is just to say the first step that must follow the steps of the other ministries, so that tomorrow we have a quick and efficient way of privatising the company that will go bankrupt after these amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act. These laws must follow the laws on land conversion. When we mention companies sold out of bankruptcy and working successfully, I must also mention the Agricultural combination "Oplenac" from Topola, where Russian capital came. In three months, he raised a company that was twice unsuccessfully privatized through auctions or tenders. But what's the problem? The Russians say -- gentlemen, you solve the conversion problem or we will no longer invest, and in three months they have invested nearly three million euros. We're in trouble waiting for one law, another law and now, simply, we're all standing. You must, though it is not in your portfolio to, together with other ministers, first of all, warn that laws appear here in time, to arrive by September with a new bankruptcy law that must be quick and efficient. We have acquired managers, and unfortunately we have a bad example in practice, that one bankruptcy manager leads 18 bankruptcys, that the bankruptcy manager takes thousands of euros a month, and when local self-governments find potential investors you have, unfortunately, the sum of the money obtained goes to some cost of these bankruptcy managers and they charge 20, 30, and I have an example from Topola, from a Partizan company that is against bankruptcy, where the bankruptcy manager took 120,000 euros and workers get crumbs. And that's why it takes these things to change. It is good to note that all employees, and I particularly want to stress this on their behalf and on behalf of the Parliament club that I belong to New Serbia, that all employees of companies who go bankrupt will be able to get a social programme, will be able to get a social programme and that the Ministry of Labour will monitor all these decisions that it proposes today, which will adopt parliament, which proposes the Ministry of Economy that workers in these companies who can get 200 euros per year of internships and thus be sure not to leave, if their companies are not sold tomorrow will not go, to say, on the street without anything. One more thing is very important and we have to mention it. You have company workers in restructuring that have between five and ten years of unrelated work experience and now is also an opportunity to see if you will again be through certain working groups with the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, but this problem has to be solved. These people have to be safe that tomorrow and when they apply, they get a social programme, that this social programme monitors and connects work experience, because we're going to have a large number of workers in these companies, thousands of people who are going to get a pension so they can go ahead to the Bureau, and then retire, and I'm not going to worry that they're going to have problems with their unconnected work experience and with everything that follows. These things are crucial so that tomorrow we can have the opportunity to talk in the right way both local self-government and the ministry and the government, they can bring potential investors. What is also very important is the respected ministers, what you mentioned at the firm to identify parts of companies that can have potential markets tomorrow. I have to mention one of them, which is the "Meadnik" from Gornji Milanovac, which has about seven components, but this company only has two parts, which is Gornji Milanovac and Topola, which work, and you have five parts where it only works with administrations and draws money from those companies that work. You then have no clouded space to manipulate those directors, the manager. What's their interest in the privatisation tomorrow, they'll be the first to get a ticket from the new owners tomorrow and of course they'll always watch me say suck blood to those parts of the company that work. That is why it is important for this process to end in a clear and transparent manner. So, to say, companies that will be out by the end of May of the month for sale through the public publication of the Privatisation Agency shall have protection until 31 October when it is time to privatise, except for companies recognised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as companies of special national interest. And with this, with a secure social programme on the one hand, with accompanying laws that need to come before the MPs of the government of Serbia as soon as possible, to allow a quick and efficient way to find new partners, to find new investors to launch companies that will go into bankruptcy, to have the possibility tomorrow, you yourself mentioned that in the coming year for a month or two, we have a problem of bankruptcy, that these bankruptcys on the wolf for years, that there is no separation of property to businesses, and that is how we all lose and we all fail. Dear Ministers, you mentioned at the very beginning of your exposure to the hot potatoes you got, we all got it together, but eventually we all have to tell the truth to the citizens of Serbia. That truth is what it is, this process can no longer be delayed, and I say that's one bleeding that we have from the budget can no longer be postponed. I sincerely wish you every happiness, and once again I ask that these following laws, as soon as they come before the MPs, are only in that unique package that we can get through these things to the end. One more thing I want to mention, it's what's called. social enterprises. It is not counted in this law, but it is very important that we in these social enterprises across Serbia have thousands of employees. Because of these people, we need to make it clear and loud that she will continue to work after 31.12.200, only that the structure of the capital will change. It will no longer be social, but through the action fund it will become state-owned enterprises, but the bottom line is that these employees in companies if they do business successfully have nothing to fear. So much for me and the MP club I belong to. I say once again, I wish you every happiness, we will support these changes, but we hold you to our word that the new package of laws will be in front of the MPs very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28784	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28785	I thank the MP for reminding me of a very important topic. Just for a minute, I'll give you an explanation. We have just finished and in the procedure is the amendment and addition of the Law on Contracting Financial Restructuring, which should be the introduction for all companies found at the moment and the initial stage of financial problems, not to wait for bankruptcy, not to wait for bankruptcy, not to wait for something that is the nature of the market economy process. So the bankruptcy is not related to this past we're talking about, all the countries of the world that have a market economy have bankruptcy agencies, have established procedures etc. The problem is that we haven't systemically arranged it in the right way, the problem is the education of our judges, the bankruptcy directors, which is much better and bigger than it was before, but we have to work in that direction further. A week ago as Minister of Business and Mr. Selakovic as Minister of Justice, we signed with the World Bank a major programme of support for our bankruptcy processes that should make this entire mosaic of all laws and regulations that will relax the situation, but also put new obligations and bankruptcy managers and bankruptcy judges and make the bankruptcy process more quickly and more powerful. I think the law itself will be prepared during the summer. So, the law on contractual financial restructuring will be very soon ahead of you, and only the law on bankruptcy, the working group has already been formed and we've started working. Just one more situation to tell you, which you mentioned, is very important, which is about severance. Yes, we have allowed companies to take severances, workers to apply and every day is more and more, everyone wants to use those funds, either to run some of their jobs or to cover the basic costs they have in their house, but it is very important that we note that one process has happened to us and that you know that we are thinking about it too. We've got companies where people checked in, workers called in for severance and then you see on those lists that most workers reported in, and administrative staff wants to stay in those factories. How do we, if the workers leave, how will these factories continue to live, no matter what model? That's why we worked through the director and talked to union representatives, couldn't function on the overall and production processes that exist, to be compromised. That relationship has to be balanced. You mentioned earlier how many administrative workers we have in the companies themselves, how much they sometimes make a big balance for these companies, so, in general, every company has to be restructured, each company has to find an optimal number of people, the smallest possible. It's not the same today to do some kind of financial or any other operation 20 years ago. Today you have computers, cheap accounting programs or any other operational and management jobs. It's sometimes supposed to be a lot more people. Our companies weren't ready for that. Everyone stayed, more or less, the administrative apparatus increased, and where we need workers, we don't even have enough there sometimes. So we take care of all aspects and all the elements that make up the overall puzzle and the overall mosaic of all the jobs that we have to do. We're doing a parallel, very committed job. Thank you for the remarks you've made.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28786	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28787	Madam President, Mr. Minister with Associates, as far as the JS parliamentary group is concerned, I can say at the beginning of the presentation that we will support one and the other law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation and Change and Completion of the Standardisation Act. I will base my exposure more on the first law, not going for this to be a much more important law than the Standardisation Act, but it is certain that at this moment for the citizens of Serbia and for workers in enterprises who are affected by these changes to the Law on Privatisation is much more important than this second law. What I want to tell you at first, Mr. Minister, is that you have very pleasantly surprised me in your presentation not by what you said as an opening statement, but by listening to it at various consultations, but by your emotional presentation of these amendments and the addition of the law, which means, in my opinion, that you really wish together with your associates that after the adoption of this law we finally resolve in the largest number of these companies that have been tapping in place for years or going back and that, in the end, we see some light, so to say, at the end of the tunnel, that these workers who work in these companies can, together with their loved ones, expect to receive a regular salary tomorrow, that they have some security etc. In that sense, the Unique Serbia gives you full support. You've already spoken, and we know that, just once again, you pointed out that in Serbia currently there are 526 companies, so to speak, not to use any other term, in a bad situation, or poor standing, as economists would say. You were talking about how the government has done and that it will make 16 companies seem to me, at this point, which are of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, have special treatment and have the possibility that another year to find a solution to get them out of the process of restructuring the crisis and that simple workers in these companies have a better tomorrow. You used the term that there are 25,000 workers working in these companies today. I'd correct you and I'd say there are 25,000 workers who are in working relationships with these companies, but the question is, are they all working? Now I'm not going to list all these companies, but if we say that in those 16 companies there used to be half a million workers, I might not really hit the number, but I'll tell you, in my cable factory where I spent 20 years, and let's say the first five-year-olds in Tristenik were once 25,000 workers in the neighborhood, only in those two companies. Now there are about 25,000 employees in 16 companies, as you said. You also mentioned the debts of all these 526 companies, i.e., their obligations to suppliers, to public enterprises, to the state, and they move around four billion euros. According to my knowledge, you probably have better data, those four billion euros certainly do the most, not bid with percentages, but it's certainly over 80% going to debt to the state, to public enterprises, or half. But, okay. I said, I won't bid. But there's also probably a lot of obligations to some private companies that have delivered goods to these companies can't possibly charge at this point. I am binding this because we have now proposed amendments and amendments to the law in the proposal, i.e. you have proposed, and we will support it, to postpone the possibility of forced collection until 31 October of this year. This is another shift towards improvement, i.e. to allow all these companies to find solutions to how they will reconcile some of their obligations, because it should be borne in mind that many suppliers, in particular, are talking about small companies that have claims against these great giants, under quotes, sometimes giants, that they are working very hard today, producing, pulling bank loans, and having claims that are not chargeable at the moment, regardless of what they have judgments and all that they can demand for forced execution. These companies would have to take it seriously and try to find a solution. However, what I would suggest to you on behalf of the Unique Serbia, which is that you once again look at these so-called so-called. Managers or directors of these companies that have run or run still those enterprises that are of the so-called In strategic terms, my knowledge goes with that in some of these companies paying that manager or director are fabulous for our opportunities. I've heard, I've learned that in some companies these salaries have moved 400, 500 thousand dinars, and the company is in restructuring. I'm asking now, as for myself, I think I'm a normal man, how is it possible that the director of a company that didn't provide neither re-promatter nor production, etc. How is he not ashamed to carry home half a million dinars, and his workers receive 20 or 25 thousand dinars from twice? There's got to be what's there and what's the responsibility of these people, and not just, and I'd like to be honest with you, the director, and I'm getting half a million dinars and I don't have any responsibility. So it's a suggestion to take a little care of the subject for the next year. We're not accusing anyone, that we understand each other, of us from Unique Serbia, just saying that it doesn't make sense that it happens in enterprises that are in restructuring. On the other hand, for many of these large companies that have more parts in their composition should go after it, and that is also a proposal from the Single Serbia, to sell parts of some of these large systems that they have, I say, pass on the market. There are some parts in some companies, I'm deliberately not going to mention any businesses, and I could say five, six at this point. These parts of companies that can have a customer good tomorrow and that have good employment and that have to be sold their products, should be sold. What is not good should be put aside and simply go into bankruptcy, liquidate etc. To paraphrase, you know, when a man, far away, gets sick of something, from a serious illness, it's better to cut off his leg than lose his life. Therefore, it is better for these companies to remove some parts, and for what is healthy, what can do, to get support from both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and from all of us in parliament in the extreme case. On the other hand, I would ask you on behalf of this parliamentary group to take a little more account now that one, second, third tender is being announced for the sale of these other companies on some of the traditions that some companies have. With the circumstances, I will have to mention, I come from a town where there is a factory that has almost 200 years of tradition, a "Jagodina brewery" and it would be really ugly for Serbia and for Serbia's history that this factory is going to be shut down. I think that's where you can find a strategic partner, that you can find someone to invest money because there are today, I think, about 200 workers. It's not a big burden for some new employer, and the strawberry beer used to be the best quality in the old Yugoslavia, the one we used to live in, and I think there's a solution here, regardless of the difficulties the company is in right now. When it comes to the possibility of helping these companies, I think the President of Unity Serbia, Mr. Markovic, once spoke of it, should be as the Ministry of Business, together with other ministries, to allow these companies that have the opportunity to produce some products, when they report to the tender tomorrow to get a job with public enterprises in Serbia, not to get jobs from certain companies, etc. "Rock and bow" because they have no losses in the past year, no blocked giro account etc. And they get jobs, and my cable factory can't get a job, even though it has the ability to produce some cables best in Europe, but it doesn't meet some other conditions. I think there should be a solution for such companies in the tender to get jobs regardless of the tough restrictions in the law on public calling or tendering, call it what you want. I ask you to find some solution here and the possibility that such companies have the advantage of getting jobs when these jobs are done in Serbia and when jobs are financed from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or from the budget of public enterprises of republican importance, etc. I think that we can agree on that and that it is a kind of help, that the money is not leaving Serbia. You reminded me, Mr. Minister, when you were talking about leaving people from certain enterprises through a social programme, etc. You know what's interesting, in most companies it happens that the most professional, the best, not 100%, but in most cases, workers who can find themselves in other companies private, etc., apply to leave these companies and get these so-called severances, and in these companies remains a less professional fit, where they are unable to bring out some complex job that they get in the company. It is a phenomenon in Serbia, and this phenomenon needs to be taken into account, it needs to be found an option, but it is again the task of the director and manager, that these workers in some way increase their earnings through systematicisation, to leave them to work in these companies, because if there is no good expert in the company, they are giving him no job. Who's gonna finish his job? He'll get a job in the tender, but he won't have anyone to do his job. So you should take care of that too. One more thing. What about the workers in these companies who are going to be out of work tomorrow, and they have 25, 30, or some other year of work? You know that usually today all employers are looking for younger workers, professional workers, etc. These people can't get a job in other businesses, and on the other hand they don't have enough financial resources to go into business on their own. We have to say that everyone's not even ready to go into some private business. And these people need to be taken care of, so we don't get more and more of these so-called social cases, and they're talking to the state manger again, so to speak, to help them survive. These are all the problems your ministry has been facing, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has met so far. You certainly had very good results in that part. To tell you the truth, I'm surprised when you brought the information here, I haven't followed it enough, that no privatisation has been done in the last six years. Believe me, I can't believe that information. I believe so, but I'm just caught up, as far as I'm concerned. And in order not to be much longer, this is a very complex problem, privatisation since 2000, so it was here as it was, but I as a man who spent 20 years in the economy, to say the most beautiful years of life I've spent in the economy, I must say that since the 1990s and the sanctions of the Serbian economy have been in difficulty. I have to say here that I've been saving my pay with the set since January 1993, when I received three dollars at the cable factory. I'm still guarding them. Three times a dollar, that was a salary for all the workers. So there were many difficulties before 2000 and before privatisation, etc. Finally, once again, the JS parliamentary group gives full support to both the government and your ministry in efforts for the Serbian economy, with all its resources, to move forward, to stand on healthy feet, to create conditions for the employment of young educated people, not to be set aside by experts abroad. In the end, I call on all local self-governments in Serbia to look a little closer to my Jagodina, to run and bring investors, and not just to wait for us to come to the door of the Ministry of Industry or the Prime Minister and say, "Help." We all have to put all our strength into hiring young people. At this point in Jagodina, there are about 4,000 jobs that we have done with our work and our own desire to hire young people, bringing investors in. Once again, the JS parliamentary group will vote for both proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28788	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28789	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the subject of privatisation has been very present in this house for many years. In other words, the first laws were passed in 1979. A lot of laws were passed after 2000. I've listed about eight amendments and additions to the law, this is the ninth, which means we've been dealing with one topic for a long time. When Serbia's economic history is written, I think it will be the history of thieving, the history of poverty, that there will be many Toms, and that generations will be able to study how one of the wealth, created by generations, has turned into private pockets, in magical ways, in ways that even an individual's imagination can't imagine. That is why I would like to refer first to a word said by the minister, which refers to the word responsibility. You're brave enough to say you're responsible. Yes, but you've been responsible since 3 September 2014. You cannot accept responsibility for others. It would be a formal responsibility for me, but I want real responsibility for all those privatisations of all those ministers who have done it, especially since 2000. I remember that time well, I was at a job called the union. I went to these factories, I listened to these ministers, and I listened to experts, especially those who came from the white world, who were just saying – privatisation. They slept on their aunt's couch and suddenly became enormously rich. They said, "When we privatise it, it will be extraordinary, and we will have small and medium-sized enterprises, and it will be better to live." When, in 2015, we live up and we have a GDP that's about 60 percent of that 1979 GDP. We have a large army, which we now call a loss of transition, and we have a small number of people who have made enormous wealth, who have just taken this great wealth that generations have created. They didn't take it with their brains, their ability, or their money. I can list you a dozen companies, exactly how they were robbed, so-called. Concentration circles. First, someone of their knowledge has a primary school, and most of all he learned in the streets and in the facts of war, whose task was to strip, ruin, and extract capital. When it leads to bankruptcy, the real one, the one who was in the background, who buys that bankruptcy company, then sells the property, sells the land. This was especially characteristic of agricultural combinations. Practically these people who are now great kings of everything and everything, the great tycoons, they have now become rich in this way, speaking with their knowledge, their abilities. No, they've already been close to something called the wealth inn, close to something that's been given authority, certain politicians have made it possible for them to get there. They have not improved production, but bought a hectare of the country by two and a half thousand euros, and then sold by eight thousand euros and thus are capable. But that privatisation is behind us. I hope, when we talk about responsibility, we'll just wait until we have the legal responsibility of those people who brought this country where it is. That's why I'm telling you. I don't want you to formally accept responsibility for them, and I'm going to ask you from 3 September 2014 what you did, where you came and see what illegalities these are. Of course, there are instruments here. I expect we'll soon pass a law on the origin of the property. It will also be discussed by teams that have reached several hundred million euros just taking what generations have created in the way they have created. You know, they were used to already known things -- our ideas and your gasoline. That means, it's nothing new, it's been there before, they were just giving ideas, but they took our money. I hope he'll come back eventually. Why am I saying this? Because now we're going to end the privatisation. This country has given a lot, but to keep these companies alive, it was the citizens of Serbia, just the ones who have the least. We used to pay taxes to save jobs. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, to point out immediately, will support these amendments to the law and this second standardisation law, for the simple reason we have to end this story. We have to finish it because we're in a situation where we can't do something forever. But I also expect that time that only the consequences of bad policies will not be borne by the citizens of Serbia, but also by those who have become rich, as we call them tycoons, that someone will start to ask you where you got so much property, how you got to it, and you have to return what you took from the people, not voluntarily, but by legislation, by various taxes, which other countries have already done and done. It will be very simple in the Property Act, look at the property they had in 2000 and look at the property they have in 2015 and you will know exactly where they are and what they are. I support the following things. You have selected 17 companies here that are of strategic importance to Serbia. I think these companies are well-chosen. I'm very glad that you talked about them at the Social-Economic Council and that you got union support for these companies. We give them a chance another year. I think these companies have a good pass and they'll have a good pass. You were talking about the PKK yourself. The PKK is an important company, it is important for Belgrade and Serbia, and I think it will find an adequate strategic partner after this year. You were also talking about Galenika. I ask the question – how did we have a smaller company called Hemofarm, which is well privatized, which brings profit and we had a large company Galenika, which came to such a low branch where it is located. All of us who use drugs know very well what it means to cure domestic production. Its price is much lower than what we have when we buy drugs than those imported from abroad. Someone was in charge of getting the big capital out of Galenika, and I hope that there will be a question of responsibility, legal responsibility, court proceedings, and I won't talk about them. You were talking about Petrochemia. I've been in it a few times. I know how he works, I know how he breathes. Good, I think she'll be able to get away with it, and even from that fact that the whole production is based on energy that's not expensive, but I think that company will be able to survive and work. I'm having a particularly difficult time falling down from Panchev. Azotara from Pancheva, which was a large producer of fertilizers, which was privatized and, behold, as soon as it was privatized, someone remembered that the most vital part cut off the heart of that Azotara and sold for 30 million dollars and no one was guilty. Then we import fertilizer from other countries, we pay dearly, and someone took 30 million dollars from that Azotare, and I've been in it so many times and I know how they breathe and how they work. You know, I could talk about a lot of companies. Here I will quote Tolstoy, who said – all happy families look alike, and every unhappy family is unhappy in their own way. Each of these companies is set up differently. We can't find anything in common here, but with the great effort of the Ministry of Industry and other factors, we need to find solutions for them, because these are companies that are also development, not to mention "The First Five-years", not to mention FAP, there have been a lot of discussions about them. You spoke of "Jumko", we know what "Jumko" means in southern Serbia. We know what it means when we positively discriminate against it. It means that we give him the opportunity to sew uniforms for both the military and the police because that way we thousands and something people hire in one poor South who can earn their salary. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always insist that every job is maintained as long as possible, which has a perspective and which can have a sustainable survival, so much that working, earning and supporting itself and its family because it is easy to lift a job, it is difficult to create a new job. That's why we stand for it, we know it costs. This government is a socially responsible government. She's willing to pay that price. All Serbian citizens must pay that price to save jobs because we have destroyed many companies that even had a perspective, and we have not preserved them. We could, with a little goodwill. It doesn't go into my head, and I'll never be able to explain to myself how we could have destroyed the agricultural combinations, and now the tycoons say, yes, Serbia's future is in agricultural combinations. How could we? At least we knew the food we were producing, we have quality land, we have people who know their jobs. I also don't understand how we managed to destroy the toll companies. We build roads, we build highways, and our toll companies are destroyed. We're bringing in people on the side who are getting tenders, who are exactly what those destroyed toll companies are hiring to finish the job. The question arises – why did we do this when we could hire our people here, and we will build roads and 400 million euros will be put in the way this year alone? Why don't our people make a living? I'll talk about a small company. That little firm is called the Polostroy, from Odjak. A businessman, a road king, I don't know what he wasn't, destroyed that company. The export company, the company where 50 people are currently working, earning, exporting, and can withstand themselves. Yeah, but it's loaded with ten million euros. The question arises – who, when will answer, why has someone burdened the company with 10m euros? So, you're going to get full support for these 17 firms in a year and I think that's the end. We can't, for that year, next year on June 1st, we know exactly where he is. It's gonna be hard. We know it's going to be difficult, for the simple reason that some of the company will have to go bankrupt. We have a social programme, it is 200 euros a year, it's not enough not to lie. With that some bigger business starts hard to start. It's money to survive. These are the possibilities of this Serbia and it gives them. After all, we know for ourselves, when NIS was privatized, people received 700 euros each and again, there are now social cases. So, the essence of the new economic reform policy is the creation of new jobs, and this is the creation of new jobs, the merger, but this country has to have clear programmes, know what it wants. There are no small and medium-sized enterprises if there are no large companies. These small and medium-sized enterprises have to work for large businesses. For this reason, they must have priority, what big businesses they are, and how they're going to go. There are other things I want to say. We have companies whose property is in Kosovo and Metohija and whose main activity is in Kosovo and Metohija. I think these 18 companies are doing well to give them the opportunity to see how the Brussels Agreement will be implemented. As you know, the government of the Republic of Serbia respects and implements the Brussels Agreement, however, Kosovo's Privatisation Agency is selling property illegally. Sooner or later it'll be nothing. If nothing else, the European Union to which we are strategically seeking will surely respect the property. That property itself says that's what we have to respect. Speaking of all this, when you took an oath on September 3, 2014, in my presentation, I said you were sitting in a burning chair. You'll have SDP support for the job you've started. We want this privatisation to be completed as soon as possible, which is really taking too long, and when the privatisation is over, we will ask you about the new programmes, we will ask you about what small and medium-sized enterprises mean, connecting, what it is you are offering, and how much foreign investors you will bring, or what conditions you will create as Minister of Economy to make Serbia attractive to foreign investors. In this regard, we offer knowledge and quality, not just cheap labour, because Serbia has a chance in many areas and I hope that we will take advantage of these opportunities. Of course, there's a lot more I'd like to talk about, but my colleagues have already said it. In the end, I want to tell you, and the next thing you know, we're really gonna give support, we're gonna keep an eye on things. Every job you keep, we will especially emphasize, especially evaluate, and we will further value the jobs you open. That is why the SDPS together with its coalition partners in this government, with the desire for Serbia to finally stand on its good feet, to take the right path that will mean that citizens live, work and live from their work. This is the basic policy of the SDPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28790	Thank you. Is anyone else answering from the authorities? The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28791	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Sertic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and Mr Sertic, you have not opened the parachute. You, Mr. Sertić, in your presentation in this National Assembly, said in August of last year, explaining this same law that you are now changing, therefore, that jump, it's like a skydiving jump. There's one moment if the parachute will open. Unfortunately, yours hasn't opened. And then you said, I say, we offer some laws that will help you open that parachute, and our goal is to minimise the cost but also to achieve something. You still said, believe me, I've been doing this since Thailand in 1979, to a whole series of other countries. It works, but we all have to be at the same job and do the same thing. Mr. Sertić, you may be that parachute, that it opened up to you both in Thailand and in some other countries, but you weren't lucky here. Not just you, but the 50,000 people this law applies to. With that parachute that didn't open, the chances of people in restructure companies you promised a new hope for have failed. Since August of last year, nothing happened on this plan, or anything that would help these people, people who work in these businesses, or save them a job, or give them another chance. You then, Mr. Sertice, announced something else. I just don't believe it's your way of telling the truth, I just don't believe it. But you promised then that very soon you would propose two laws that would allow structural reforms of two laws that would allow the situation in public enterprises to change and change the environment in which people would get jobs. You announced a new law on public enterprises in August of the month, you announced a law on incentives that would practically, which would allow people who wanted to start business or have it, that business and maintain it. So the law on public enterprises and the law on investment stimulating is the laws you promised in August of the month, Mr Sertic. If you hadn't come today with these amendments to the law, Serbia would have forgotten, out of the great promises it receives every day, one of your promises that was made lightly. I don't think it's just you, Mr. Sertic. It's the whole Serbian government. It's the Prime Minister's fault and the entire crew in that parachute of yours that didn't open. Mr Sertic, at the beginning of this session, you thanked the parliamentary groups for hearing you a few days ago when you came to the Assembly to tell them something about this law. I have to correct you, Mr. Sertic, Mr. Marko Djurisic was at that meeting. He showed disdain and said it was inappropriate what you were doing. You're talking about that law with the heads of parliament, with the MPs, before you put him in the procedure. You, in fact, wanted to prevent this meeting from being discussed so that this law would go quietly and not tell me what we thought about this law and the work of your ministry and the work of your government over the past year and a few days. And it is characterized by the decline in production, the drastic fall in foreign investment, the desperate position of entrepreneurs you announced the law, and you didn't bring it. No incentive measures, Mr. Sertice, for these people who need to lose their jobs. So we have no basis to change anything in this country. I think you, Mr. Sertić, are an honorable man, and I expect you to resign after all this and thank the Prime Minister. Perhaps it's funny to you, Mr Sertic, that I resigned a little while ago as Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives because I didn't want to participate in something I don't think is useful for this country. So, as the responsible man for the proposed law that is not implemented, which you yourself called "lex specialis", Mr Sertic, if you will, I can quote you. So, when you came to explain this law you said – the character of thissacon is such that it has the status of special law again, the special law "lex specialis". You were practically a pioneer in "lex specials" in this Serbian Assembly. So after that, the "Belgrade on Water" and so on and other "lex specialises", but this Mr. Sertic is not the "lex specialis" that you are proposing today. This is a "lex specialis" specialis. So, you've given the law on "lex specialis" changes and additions to which, not only formally legally gives him the character of Lex specialis specialis, but he is essentially a Lex specialis specialist. You are a certain group of economic operators that you have treated with this law, and now you have amendments to this law that gives the Serbian government the right to single out entities based on, I suppose, what this government does, partyafinities, who is in a particular region of government, what will be the course of various pre-election campaigns from local communities, locals that you make, etc. So, it gives you the opportunity for this law to create your own business policy, over which the privatisation process should be implemented. You were in an awkward situation back then when you were here in August, because then you were abandoned by the younger Krstic, so you were also Minister of Business and Finance. But that took a while, Mr. Sertic. In the meantime, you could have been in your ministry, let me say, constituting and doing something. No, you didn't do it, Mr. Sertice. Here's an example. For today's session in session, it stands out who will represent the government on this matter. He says – for the government's representative in the National Assembly, Željko Sertic was appointed Minister of Industry, and for the trustees Milutin Trivunac, acting as assistant minister of the economy. You're an average Serbian government. So, you don't have an assistant, you have a ministerial assistant in such an important ministry. As we do not have an ambassador in Germany for a year and a half, as we do not have ambassadors in some countries that are very important to us also because of the economic activities of Mr Sertic. Then you said that the subject matter of this law would be enterprises of strategic importance. I would add, Mr. Sertic, you did not write that, of party importance, as you would estimate that your company is of strategic importance to your election campaign. Mr. Sertice, therefore, you are giving new deadlines. Let's just say, in Article 14, in fact, in an implicit way, you predict that you and this law will not be implemented within the time limit that you have predicted. You here have one, two, three, four, five exceptions to what's going to happen in how many countries in this period don't do what they're supposed to do, but until the deadline that's already been set. Well, it is said that if a company whose social capital is less than 50% of the company's total capital is not privatised within the prescribed law, on the date of expiry of that period, the non-privatised part of social capital is transferred to the Shareholder Fund. So you've already predicted what's going to happen to these companies. You know that even within this later period, you will not find a strategic partner and that these companies will only change the structure of that capital, that capital will now become part of the ownership of the Stock Fund. So you've already written here about what's going to happen in the next period. Where are your foreign investors? How come the Emirat gentlemen didn't come to privatize one of these companies? How come they didn't invest in production, but they came to the Sava amphitheater where you gave them, gave them land and gave them another 300m euros to find them? How come one of them didn't privatize one of these companies that you say failed? You say, "It's been the past six, seven years." You've been three years, Mr. Sertic, not personally, but your party who suggested you, three years, but in power. Do you understand that? It's been three years. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic ruled for four years. You're already close to accomplishing his four-year period. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic had much more foreign investment, Mr Sertic. And even though she didn't open a line to the Emirates and to some other friends who, except for a few Mercedes who are now standing in the garages because the drivers broke them, you have no other effects. Right, you've privatized some companies in Vojvodina from these foreign investors from the Emirates, but unfortunately, it's been privatized to 4,000 acres of land of which 2,000 acres, you probably know that Mr. Sertic, since we live in the same area, so to speak, is not modeled. So, 2,000 acres is a parking lot of land bought by these friends of ours from the Emirates. Why did they buy it? Well, they probably resell one day, or they got a lease, waiting to become owners someday of some "lex specialis" and resell it. Why would they plow the land when they entered the business for some very, very other reasons. So, Mr. Sertice, speak one thing, do the other. I'm saying again, you don't look like such a man to me. However, your environment in which you operate has led to that. So, false, false, false, every day, every day, every day. Here, I'm saying, we wouldn't have remembered these promises of yours if today wasn't on the agenda of this law, so we didn't have to talk about it. So, you're proposing now to get something to say "2013. the years’ are replaced by the words ‘last half of the year’ or by some other dates from this date on this date. That's what you usually do before the end of the year when they get here, the law on the extension of deadlines. You're just delaying, delaying and delaying. You have no active measures, Mr. Sertic, you have no measures to save, first of all, small entrepreneurs to continue to function without even talking about these big systems. You don't have Mr. Sertice, as Government, capacity. Neither did Guzen Bauer, nor did he, have any of those advisors. One of ours came, I couldn't call him a friend, he's probably a friend of your party's, to advise us, or advise your party, but there's nothing from foreign investment. I mean Blair. So there's no investment. And what's going to happen to these companies? We'll wait for the deadline to expire. In the meantime, at some sessions where there will be "silence there", you will make some decisions regarding these public enterprises under a party system, as you do in public enterprises. In the meantime, you won't be able to pass laws that would improve the situation and what? Serbia will sink deeper and deeper. Unfortunately, workers who receive small wages will receive even less or will not receive them. You will create some smoke curtains, or your colleagues, to discuss some other topics that do not interest the citizens. They're interested in what's going to happen to these companies, Mr. Sertic? You have no idea. You don't have any realisations. You don't have any helpers in any way to work. You never know when the Prime Minister will call you and thank you. You probably don't, like, have a bag packed all the time so you can leave. So, Mr. Sertice, I suggest you, here's some friendly advice I've given you what I would do if I were you, and you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28792	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28793	Dear Mr. Vesenovic, I can understand, although I am not a politician and I am really, I don't know, only the second, third, fourth time, to be in the Assembly and to listen to such politically written speeches and I can understand it as a man, that you have some concept for your party, for your voters and the need to express yourself. I can understand you pulling things out of context and putting them in another context. I can understand when you say that, as you said, it's inappropriate that I, as Minister of Industry, came with my colleagues to meet with all the parliamentary groups to talk, to explain, to talk about bill proposals and you call it appropriate and I can understand that. It's your right to say it like that. I can understand you saying that someone has promised something, law one, second, third, and you know that the Investment Act has passed a full public debate and will be here in a few days to discuss it in front of you. You know very well what's open, so here's just fresh, two days ago "Calcedonia", a new drive in Ruma. So you can rip everything out of context and say it's not true and it's wrong. But if you, MP, don't know who stood before you less than a year ago and proposed laws, if you tell me my parachute didn't open up to me, and I took an oath in this assembly on September 3rd, so, much later, many days after what you're talking about, then I'm asking a logical question, everything you said -- how much does it make sense and what's it about? I don't know where you pulled the papers from, where you pulled the paperwork, you have the congregation service, you can get out exactly who proposed the law, who said what, how did he explain it? I stand behind every word I say, I stand behind everything I said about this speaker and when I came here and when I took an oath, and especially today in this opening statement, when I said that it was precisely for the importance of developing the NSP sector in Serbia that it was important that we end these processes, when we bravely made decisions, those that you didn't do many, many years ago, and you are now asking a question that I don't understand. Are you willing to complete the privatisation process and immediately end all companies with them and not try to do anything, because I didn't have time before that, here I say six and a half, seven months I'm a minister, or do you support this by leaving some companies for the next two or three months to see how the process ends, and for some strategically important companies that employ 21 and a half thousand workers, as someone said, are employees, most of them are just working relationships, but still it's 21,000 families? It's not clear to me as Minister of Economy whether you support it or not? Are you saying that we should push them all into the street without trying to solve any further and continue that policy that you've been leading? I don't want to be that minister who's gonna do it. I said therefore, I am responsibly behind the decision to complete the process, but I am asking you for a brief period of time, a little extra time for what we started in these previous six or seven months to end up with the least damage to our fellow citizens and for our employees employed in these companies to get a solution. The rest of your comments really after this that you don't know who was standing here, who was talking, who was defending the law, and you told me that I was a liar and I promise a lot and a lot of things, I don't think that's correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28794	Thank you. The word has Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28795	It is difficult to dispute when someone is trying to abuse and forge and even forge people and forge functions, because Mr. Zeljko Sertic was never at one point and the minister of the economy and finance minister. So much for truthfulness. On the other hand, I know that the Social Democratic Party is a young party, but not with such a young leader in political terms. I know he's trying to profile himself in Serbia's political skies, but I'd like that not-young leader in a political sense to say what he wants. A sentence, not to save them a job, nor to give them a second chance. Is the state supposed to give someone a job? Are you in favor of government? Is Mr. Tadic for some other social and state order? Is it for some kind of self-government? Is there a way back? On the other hand, Mr. Vesenovic said -- everything is aimed at giving the government authority, the discretionary right of the government ministers to manage their own party interests, do they live and work in that city? The government has asked for 17 and with what discretionary law has Tadic defined and introduced over 200 firms in Serbia into the restructuring process? You've done it in an extremely populist way. You sang a lullaby that cost billions and billions of dollars and euros to Serbian citizens. You took from the healthy one to sing the lullaby to the sick one, and now someone else is responsible. For 17 companies, for 17 companies living alone, who still pay the debts you made for them today. That doesn't suit you now either. Neither do you agree with the agreement we have with the International Monetary Fund nor with the World Bank for this law. And what do you suggest? Do you suggest a privatisation model like Alex Shantic? Are you suggesting everything you've done in Greycat, Bucky Grey? Do you want like in "Young Fighter" in Sainta, what you did and how much you brought in Milet Jerkovic to hire these companies, to alienate the combines, to take loans, to get out, and to keep loans and obligations to the state and to stay with all citizens. Is this a model of Mr Tadic's privatisation?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28796	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28797	First, around Calcedonia, Mr Sertic, that factory has been opened several times. The other day he opened for the third time, I think Mr. Wolfie, and he wouldn't be wasting his words on it. All the people living in Rumi know well that this factory started to be built sometime after 2012, that 250 people were sitting there, doing something. I heard the truth, that now it's this time, that some of the administration are withdrawn to look better when painting with Mr. Wolf, but that's all political marketing. We didn't get along well, Mr. Sertić. Don't take this personally. So when I was talking to you, I was thinking about the government and I used to talk to you myself. I know well that in August there was Mr Vujovic, and if you came in September of the month, it is not disputed. However, all those promises I talked about and quoted by Mr Vujovic, and you took over the bat a month later. So, you practically took the role of fulfilling this obligation to Mr. Vujovic, I'm sorry for the inaccuracy. Mr. Vujovic held the bat there for a month, I don't know if it's full for a month or less, but it's been there since September of the month, so here you are for one month, if you want it to be less negative. Of course, Mr Vujović is now somewhere else, doing about as much work as you do here without your hands off and without being able to show perhaps the expertise you would show that you have a competent government and that the profession is wondering. No, this is the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28798	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28799	Here's just for clarification. The MP either doesn't have enough information or he's got the wrong information again. The Kalcedonija company opened the plant in Subotica in September last year, and the new plant was opened in Ruma, now the other day, so it speaks best of how we drove foreign investors away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28800	Let's move on. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Just one minute, please. ) Replication on replica, on replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28801	Mr Sertic, the "Calcedonia" factory in Ruma, with a speech in Ruma, began working in 2013, i.e. some facilities were completed. There were about 250 people working there, now they're doing something more people. They worked in one building, so they moved into another building. So, I'm not talking about Subotica, I'm talking about Ruma, so there were some people and some of the gods were opening it up while it was unfinished until the end, so when it was half finished, so it was opening.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28802	Let's break it up now and you said some work yourself, some people, so it wasn't finished, meet me halfway. The word is Žika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28803	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, honourable fellow MPs, amendments to the Privatisation Act today suggest that a total of 17 enterprises of strategic importance for the state, as well as economic operators at KIM are excluded from the current privatisation deadline for a year. Amendments to the Privatisation Act will allow for the delay of bankruptcy and forced collection in 17 enterprises for a maximum year, so that it can be successfully privatised and then re-evaluated within 30 days of the call for privatisation. I purposely cited this because, when I talk about these amendments to the law, it's very much of the flat-rate estimates and half-truths that are being made public, probably to politically entangle voters and to make sure that all the people who are watching this, who are directly interested, and not a small number of people, that they create one false picture so that nothing actually changes, and that the status quo, as it has been in the last 15-20 years. The aim of the proposed amendments to the law is to successfully resolve the fate of the companies in which there are conditions for privatisation, to facilitate the privatisation process. The proposed changes aim to establish the real situation of the assets, liabilities and capital of the company, to establish their actual market value. I'll remind you that to this day, we didn't have a list of assets, a real and real list of assets, all owned by public enterprises. On the list of 17 strategic companies that will be protected from creditors in the next year, we heard, there are the "FAP" from Priboj, "Agricultural Combined Belgrade-PKB", "Galenika" drug manufacturer, "Politika" AD, "Fabrica Maziva" from Kruševac, Pančeva "Petrochemija", "Resavica" mine and several other companies. In these companies it's been employed, we heard a little while ago, about 21,000, I have some information of 25,000 workers, that's count 25,000 minimum direct families who are interested in solving these problems at last. Going into bankruptcy is a loss of work for a large number of these citizens, I would lead to major earthquakes in Serbia and on the social but also on the business plan. The Serbian government has proposed that the law enter into force on the day of publication in Serbia's "Official Messenger" in order to, of course, create the necessary legal assumptions within a short time to effectively implement the privatisation process. The Privatisation Act also provides for mandatory privatisation for social capital entities by 31 December of this year, while amendments propose an exception to the prescribed deadline only for those designated by the Serbian government act as subject to the privatisation of strategic importance. Also, as is very important, it refers to the privatisation entities whose headquarters is located, or the heavy activity is carried out, on KIM territory, or their property is located on that territory. It should be made clear that this government rightly accuses all of the governments so far of the sickening and political cowardice that have led Serbia to economic disaster. I think this government has rightly counted all the symptoms of ailing, cowardice of unprivatised companies that, and that's just before Mr Babic said, but I think it's been repeated here several times, a very clear principle of how these companies were obtained, i.e.. Buying votes. So, these companies have served, literally, politicians as the voting machine that has been traded in the system -- we're money for your salaries, and you're voting for us in the election. The property of these companies was used as the straw of Alaybek, each stealing and stealing what he wanted, and the most useful were directors and so on. Union champions. When the state ran out of money, so-called. The workers either came before the government and blocked it or camped on the highway. There are countless examples of how property was destroyed. We just heard her shop in a sack of property that was probably to be washed up by drug trafficking, or who knows what and how she's been shopping in a bunch of social-state property in the last few years around Vojvodina. I think examples are best when we talk about topics like this. For example, since I come from Sombor, I often remind myself of the examples of Sombor, and Mr Babic said Alexa Shantic, I will say, for example, the Sombor battery factory, which was one of the best factories in Serbia and which had an export of 80% of its product, which went to export. When one of the biggest tycoons bought it, not to mention his name, I mentioned it several times, I didn't have a problem, his name always appeared in the media, it's also known who he was very close to, when he bought that factory, among other things, and of course, he was in debt, pulling out money, pumping out, today this factory is not working, and it was one of the best not only in the region, but also in all of Serbia. It's very similar to "The Choka Meat Industry". I'd ask you, Minister, you don't have to answer anything for what I'm saying today, but only if you can give me any answer when it comes to the Sombor Battery Factory. A very similar situation was with the "Cocco Meat Industry". The company went bankrupt without a dinar debt by putting pressure on workers who at the time were extremely prone to manipulation and greater claims were made than they were in debt. Workers are convinced to vote for bankruptcy, which was tragic for them. Many criminal proceedings are being conducted, and the company was then sold out of bankruptcy, as far as I know, to some Branko Milosevic from Vrbasa. What's going on now? The company completely collapses, which has worked very well until then, is sold for relatively small money probably to a man who has long been prepared or interested in such a thing, the AP Vojvodina helps with 100 million dinars this company, and production stops after only a month, although everywhere boasting that this company will function more than well. Of course the company's completely devastated today, the machines have been stolen. Many people have spent their entire youth there and, unfortunately, they will never be able to recover again. I think it's very important, not only here, but also in many other firms, to examine the audit and the bankruptcy managers, because it's just amazing that at the time some bankruptcy managers were leading seven, eight, ten, 15 of these companies, that these companies were failing, and they were receiving tens of thousands of euros in prizes. The current government has recorded precisely all the symptoms of the Serbian economic system's disease and has made them public, which is significant progress, but should be little and critical, not always speaking in praises. I think there's a missing opportunity here for us to take full advantage of that soreness and pulsism. There's a picture in the public why these 17 companies, why these exactly 17 companies are protected, why maybe not some other one? We're coming into a situation that just passed the Privatisation Act, although it's considered to be the best, it has to change. Only a bankruptcy law was passed, although it was considered the best in the region, it must change. Except that the Labour Act has been passed, even though its grades are more than good in this part of Europe, it has to change, and so on from year to year. We pass one law, then we change it soon, which only extends one unfinished business. The reminders for my part, I am of the relatively younger people in this House, but I remember that the Privatisation Act adopted by the government of Ante Markovic had 11 members, with all the transitional and final provisions, and the privatisation that was then done and today is considered to be the most successful. These 17 protected companies were selected, according to the Government, not a random sample and lottery system, which is, of course, good, but based on the basic analysis that has shown that these companies have a market perspective and that they can only be sold well if the state holds them for a little more than a year under a glass bell and they are forgiven for two billion euros in debt. This is causing the public, which has been embittered by the privatisation that has occurred since the beginning of the multi-party, to this day, of some kind of suspicion. I think further explanations would be very welcome at any moment, especially for those people who fear that this time will be deceived, as has been the case so far. We have a dilemma as to why certain companies are here, such as "Cables" from Jagodina, the Trajal company from Kruševac, for which if they were interested, someone could already buy them and it would be good to remind ourselves again that these companies that are now protected didn't want to sell any prime ministers until now, because the alleged price was low. I will remind you that for Galenika alone, 100,000 euros were offered, and 400m euros were offered for RTB Bor. Of course, we've always missed the chance and where today would be the end if it were sold. There are a lot of interesting things that we can talk about when it comes to privatisation and all the failures that this country has made over the years behind us have failed promises, especially those promises after 2000, and I think the rights of workers in that period are completely unthinkable, and that all those who had suspicious capital through that privatisation have managed to legalize, opera and today, probably, many of them can't do anything. Because of the unquestionable desire and all that is done in the Ministry of Industry, the SP and the Democratic Party give full support, not only when it comes to the law on privatisation, but also the desire to finally end this privatisation, but also that we know what the culprits are when it comes to everything bad that has happened so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28804	Thank you, Mr. Gojkovic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28805	Dear Ambassador Gojkovic, I heard carefully and listened to what you said, especially the part where you listed some famous and large companies that had a huge amount, which were obviously, not by chance, shut down or by making some completely different business environment compared to what they could do or what they had. However, in that part of you when you listed those two or three companies, the only thing that is missing and what I would like you to supplement and investigate, and that is, in what period was it, who was then the Minister of Industry, who was the Prime Minister? Then we'll know who these people were responsible for the terrible condition we were in. Second, you said we often change laws. That's right. Last year we passed the Law on bankruptcy, on privatisation, and now, in less than a year, we're looking for new amendments to the Privatisation Act. I think I explained why it was like that and you supported it. Thank you for that. As for the law on bankruptcy, everyone says, professional people who deal with it both with us and abroad, that our law on bankruptcy is very, very good. Even what I have information, many countries in the region have copied many of our laws and only embodied their legislation. But we need the best law. We need steps out of this good environment that we've made, because our problems we face must be solved quickly and efficiently. We don't have time in front of us to wait, test and work. So we must make great progress in order to reach developed countries and be able to be respected members of both the EU and the overall economic life in Europe and the world. I thank you for your support of all of this, but I only gave you an explanation of why it is important and why we will enter into a change of law, because it is very important for us and your support, that in the elements of the bankruptcy law we take steps, that the law be more transparent and efficient in models that are very important to us and that this process, therefore, is also connected to this process that we are talking about today, about privatisation, but also about future companies that I will eventually go into bankruptcy, to realize really what is the essence of bankruptcy, and not what has been said so far, that it is just literally shutting down the company, in the most cruel sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28806	Thank you, Mr. Sertic. Replica, MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28807	I'll be brief and quick. Thank you for letting me talk again. It is clear to all how and how individual financials destroyed companies four, five and six years ago, everything that was right and everything that was good in Serbia. I believed it was simply impossible to destroy that battery factory, but we saw that it was also possible to do so, when we don't have a judiciary and we don't have a rule of law and we don't have people who care about the property of the state. I totally agree with you on the laws that you said were good, but unfortunately, they arrive late, because a lot of firms who didn't have to be there have to go bankrupt. Of course it's not going to your account, but I'm asking you to reconsider, when it comes to the battery factory, to do another review, what's done here, so that this factory can recover as soon as possible, and that people who functioned even during those unfortunate wars and get paid, so they can get back at the opportunity to earn and do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28808	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Mr. Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28809	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, one of the greatest delusions is the hope that the difficult things will become simpler for solving which we push under the carpet, although we are all pretending to be ignorant on, I would say so, since I am known for figuratively pleading here, the presence of a pink elephant in our country, and the pink elephant is visible to all. We all know that solving, not talking about solving the company's restructuring problem, will be a major challenge and that it is the easiest thing for everyone to repeat what has already been seen. Buying one year is the easiest, although this time it will take to make the most sensitive strategic companies... It is simply true that the longer we wait for something to be solved, the better chance we need more time and that the solution will be somewhat more and more uncomfortable. However, we will not do as some previous governments did. We missed a lot of chances, even too much. We have pumped several billion euros into the restructuring companies. For that amount we could have had less debt, we could have had corridors, we could have reconstructed and restored railways. There's a lot we could do with that money. We didn't do that. We were running from reality. After more than 10 years, the restructured companies, which are still floating in limbo, some are in a legal, some in an economic sense, are not in a better position. On the contrary, by saving these jobs, which is an undisputed mission, and by saving the company's cooperatives, something happened that no one wanted -- a sector developed in which there are different rules of the game. These companies have become excellent for jobs that have no economic basis. When you have a loss, and when that company makes a loss, if you're going to hire 10, 100 people, so you increase that loss, it didn't matter to anyone, it didn't mean anything to anyone. Many have used these companies to draw money from them for a wide variety of needs. It was absolutely the kind of managers these companies had. It's just that the managers of these companies had their hands tied. To those who wanted something good for those companies, and completely solved if they wanted to do bad things to those companies. We've tied our hands to companies where they don't know for sure what their condition is, where it's known that the situation is temporary, where you can't collect your claims and where you'll likely meet with years of built-up networks of interest of the most different groups. No one trusted those companies. That's why I can't get funding at a normal price. That's why they don't like to sell and do business except for the state. Waiting for things to be solved with a magic wand or believing that someone else would do it for us, when we woke up from that uncomfortable dream, we lost a lot of things as a society. Something and someone has to cut it, not like Alexander the Great, when he cut Gordi's knot, because we don't have the point of bankruptcy and asset sales being the main model. The point is not to be listed as those who don't know anything, except to sell buildings, machines, land and simply transfer debts to taxpayers. We want to do a time-armed operation and preserve everything that can be preserved, try to preserve it, that is. to make a healthy separation to companies that need more time and companies that have no reason to wait, either because their perspectives are bad or because their perspectives are great. Above all that I've said, I think we have to put an end to at least three things. First, the resources of a society are managed badly. We don't have the resources to throw away, and in particular we don't have the right to treat the state's assets and capital irresponsiblely. We don't have the right to declare everything not perspectiveal and not aibe's straw or to give false hope where it isn't. We're different from what we're saying is what the real situation is, but not to make it look good what we say. The second thing we have to put a point on is that we no longer have the right to send people the wrong messages and tell them that limbo can last forever. People aren't numbers, they're not 20,000 or 50,000. Behind each of them is one family and one way they come up with the means to work. We can't condemn them to wait forever, even if we just come to work occasionally and get some money for it or get paid from time to time that's late and it's messy. It just doesn't lead to anything. One decade that has passed is a quarter of a working century. From this perspective, it's better that our predecessors weren't playing head-to-mouth at a time when this was much easier to solve. Why was it easier to solve? Because it wasn't this much of an external debt. At that time, investment was coming, financial markets were growing, and it was much more favourable for the ground to solve these problems. They did what they did, left us a terrible condition, but it's not worth crying over hectolitres of spilled milk. The third thing to put an end to is that if someone thinks that this way isn't elegant, that we're going to miss out on doing everything in the best imagined way, I'm saying that it won't be 100% elegant and that we're going to do our best to reconcile the need for things to be solved and as good as possible. Those who have objections to the terms and methods of privatisation may have the least right to speak to us because they have stood out in all the privatisations they have served just to get the money out of these privatized companies. They have often been in cahoots with those who have unskilled such privatisations and legally untrained and left the possibility of someone taking advantage of poor privatisation twice. Are we gonna make a mistake somewhere? Yes, we will, because because, after the ugly regulations that someone has made and some of our predecessors, no one can safely untangle. Above all, we support the definition that we need to know what the real state of business is. We definitely have to do that, that there can't be a deviation from the accounting and real state, from the inventory. Can't stockpiles, debts, and claims are arbitraryly assessed. We have a lot of examples, I don't want to talk about examples. We need to know what the property is and what the property is burdened with. It is important to know what the status of judicial proceedings and processes related to these companies is. It's nothing you can't do. The whole world does that and more complex systems than we do, so it's not impossible for us to do the same. If we sell, not to tell the cat in the bag, but at least the cat in the middle of the night, we risk it costing us in the future. We risk missing things like some privatisations, and I'll say Vrsak vineyards, for example. In the worst case, even failures that can have far more extensive consequences for our country's finances, and only by the reputation of our country, which should be returned with much trouble afterwards. In our country and in the world, renomé is everything, believe me. None of us will be in these positions forever, especially if we don't keep what we promised our citizens. First of all, we will not act like those who have consequences for their failures, not to use stronger words today use evidence that we cannot solve the problems we inherited. The deadlines are fine and there's no dilemma. The law we passed is now changing. It leaves a wide range of potential solutions where everyone who wants can get involved in privatisation. With our successes in foreign policy, opening chapters with the EU in European integrations that await us, a reduced fiscal deficit, inflation under control, political stability and other achievements that are great, and not enough for us, we have enough reason to believe that we will know very quickly what is the model for each company and that by autumn the situation will be much clearer. We don't expect at all what's claimed, and that's mass bankruptcy as reality. We expect that during the summer we will have the trouble to choose between the best offers, when it comes to companies with perspective, and believe me, they have it definitely. If we could find solutions to how to make "Smederevo Iron" a big problem, and with the prospect of becoming proud, then it is very likely that we will soon be able and able to solve other problems. I must point out that there are companies that will have fewer chances and go bankrupt. The bankruptcy is after the reforms we've taken to get healthy and over-indebted businesses out of these bankruptcys and rescues, as is the case all over the world, not that these companies are slowly dying because someone thinks we need to go further and win some time. So, of those companies that go into bankruptcy some will stand on their feet in different ways, while only a part of them will mostly end their existence through the sale of assets. They'll be like that, and we have to say it, and the minister said it's inevitable. Finally, we have large systems that are strategically significant. Examples of finding a solution to a case by case give us the right not to wait until next year to devote ourselves to the current search for a solution, which is required in the teamwork of all those who can solve these problems. We've tried it a few times, and we've done it, and we think it's the only way. If there's no success in a year, then there's a point to these exceptions. We have to say that exceptions aren't our weakness, they're not a weakness. They're a way not to lose the essence of subversive cases under the same archaic that doesn't suit everyone. A healthy system is a condition for a healthy economy and for a healthy society. The face of the completion of the restructuring is that some are left out of work, but it is similar that we can tax companies less in the future and that people who will get severances and who will certainly not end up on the street will have a place to look for their jobs. If these problems are not solved, we, like many others, will waste the opportunity to be the ones who solved the problem and leave those problems to a new majority as an even bigger problem. I must say that the SPS and the SPS Parliament Club have always been responsible for the citizens of Serbia. It supports long-term sustainable solutions that can only lead us to a better life. Of course, there are moments on that road that aren't nice to everyone, but unfortunately, otherwise, you can't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28810	Thank you. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister Sertić and his associates, distinguished fellow MPs, I know that in today's debate many of my colleagues spoke with the position of the inevitability of this process, many of them spoke of the errors in privatisation in the previous period. Many colleagues said that it was a minor situation in which the train was about to hit a wall that would stop it. We all said that, and we all reminded ourselves of the great people of the past. There were quotes and everything. But what is essential is that these changes protected 17 companies with a total of 21,483 workers. These include RTB "Bor", "Resavica", "Simpo", "First Five-year-old", "Gallenika", "Thalal", "Jagodina cable factory", "Petrochemical" and "FAP". In this year, the deadline for privatisation of 188 companies is 18. 859 workers. So, all in all, when you add it up, it's something under 100,000 workers, 100,000 families, i.e. to be precise 92 thousand workers in all privatized, unprivatised enterprises. I'm sorry if some number is more or less correct, but it's around here somewhere. So we all know that these are enterprises that employ a large number of people. We all know, but we're talking a little bit about it, that these are enterprises where many people work, although there are people who work fictitiously, but they still get some profit. We also know, and what is not said, that these companies, which are thus with all these problems, have been keeping these parts of Serbia in such a normal state for decades, preventing the removal of parts of Serbia, the discharge of Serbia, which unfortunately takes place speedily over the past few years. Serbia is emptying out for us. Youths and experts leave the country, go abroad, and people from central, southern, eastern and western parts of the country leave either abroad or abroad. We have one disastrous disparity, an awful bad economic and social situation in the country, for which no one is alive because – only the minister since September, before me was someone else, which I respect, just please respect it then and respect the parties that were in power three years ago, and not here to listen – the previous power of one colleague who was also part of that government. It's an insult to intelligence. So, at least let's get serious. First of all, I have to remind you that in May 2014 we had a debate here in the Serbian Parliament and as you called for Abraham Lincoln, I'll call myself - no man has such good memory to be a successful liar. Let's hear what the regime said in May 2014 in this Assembly. One colleague from across the street, I won't mention his name, he said the following thing – the government is in a situation best described in one verse of the Old Testament prophet Ezekiel – that someone ate sour grapes, and now this government has thorned teeth. However, he says the next thing -- people will not find themselves on the street, but in this extra time of five months, this is May 2014, when it is spoken, seeking a solution, finally and definitely a solution to the company's restructuring problem and over 50,000 Serbian workers. That's what the esteemed colleague from across the street said, I don't mean the chief of majority, and in that sense we got one in a series of confirmations of this debate that would find a final and definitive solution. Finally and definitely, the solution obviously does not exist because we are again on the same subject a year later in this congregation. The second thing is, of course, why just these 17 companies or those 33? Why? What's the criterion? How did you measure strategic determination? Is that the number of employees? Is this the strategic nature of the product that is being made or not and how did you decide for them? In other words, my regret, Ministers to you and the Government, to break up the monotony of the same arguments, is that you didn't put much more businesses on this list. And we have a statement by Minister Selakovic who was defending it at the time, who said the next thing – we want the problem to be solved definitely and this problem has to be solved now. Of course they haven't solved it. Then compare it to the tumor, etc. Which is very untasteful. Then he says there is no resurrection without death, referring to the death of a company in restructuring. The densest darkness is before dawn, says Minister Selakovic, etc. Anti-toxins, cytostatics. We don't want angels, as the Prime Minister says, candy to treat cancer, etc. So there's one line of the same examples, the same argument that's completely inappropriate. This is how the then defender of the government's views, Minister Selakovic, says -- we will not wait 150 days for it to pass. I repeat, this is May 2014. It doesn't occur to us to wait 150 days, then figure out what we're gonna do. No, we'll do it onmah. We've already started working, in the nature of the ruling party's policy, that says everything in future and everything -- we'll do and we'll do and we'll solve, just tomorrow. It's like that movie -- you'll be godfathers only tomorrow. That's what they're ordering Serbian citizens. The citizens of Serbia wait for you tomorrow. After a year - we have no idea, I quote Minister Selakovic to wait 150 days. Oh, my God, you had it in your head. Here you are, you didn't do anything. You've been in power for three years. For three years in power, 92,000 workers are waiting for a solution that is not, in our opinion, just to say -- here's the money, you haven't managed to privatise yourself, no one has answered alive, there's some money, which is miserable, which is small, with which no economy in Serbia can really start, realistically saying, no people have gone to the street. He's gonna buy some house supplies and he's gonna end up on the street. Serbia is full of such examples from all authorities. You know that I haven't been ablibrating anyone and that the economic and privatisation model since 2003 has been terribly bad for me. But you were here talking against privatisation. By yesterday, you spoke against privatisation until this morning, so why are you defending her now? Wait, what kind of privatization is that has party colors? Is it privatisation or not privatisation? If privatisation is, then why are you talking about genocide until yesterday, I quote one colleague, which is a very inappropriate term, over the workers of Serbia, and now you say -- heavy drugs, there is no death without resurrection. The worker in Serbia will not rise as long as he is your authority. There's no way and this law is proof of that. In May will be your entry into four years of absolute power, in May now, even though we have not been celebrated in the privatisation process, to be gentle, what you are now doing is the unspeakable acceptance of the concept of privatisation of what the IMF has come up with. No criteria, no procedures, no obvious method of 17 companies, be happy, you're protected for a year, and the rest of you are on the line. That's what's gonna happen. I don't blame you personally. You know what I'm about to tell you, Minister Sertic, I might surprise you, as far as I'm concerned, by reading what you were saying and what Prime Minister Vukic said, you're a hero to me, and you know why you're a hero to me? Because this is what Prime Minister Vukic said in "Blica" on May 6th -- I will not stand for the public hearing, so I downloaded Sertic's proposal at a meeting with the IMF and, he said, my move shocked the Fund's representatives. Rescheduling the solution might be good for my party, but I know that nothing would be done in the next two years. I despise permanent delays. That is why I brought down Sertic's proposal and accepted the IMF's proposal to talk to the creditors for each of these 25 companies. And then there's a miracle. Suddenly, on 11 May for "Tanjug" – Sertic's proposal accepted – 17 companies are excluded from the trustees and from the collection. So you did the right thing. I'm the only one who thinks you needed a lot more company. It is not a solution for the Serbian economy, nor for the economy, nor for the catastrophic economic situation, and above all for the social situation in Serbia, especially in central, southern, eastern and western Serbia, it is not a solution to close this to them because there is no, my God, who buys it, and then we will get the money we will spend on white technology, but unfortunately in Serbia to repay debts. To repay debts because very well, respected colleagues know that Serbia eats on the line and that mini-markets that survived in Serbian townships, villages and municipalities give goods on the line when they arrive. This worker's gonna have to pay that line first, and where's he gonna work? That's my question to you. I also noticed that from the processing industry we have as many as 63 companies. Sixty-three companies will either shut down or go away for good, bankrupt, and these people will be out of a job. They're full of mouths to this agriculture regime, food processing -- we're champions in food production, and 63 companies go down the Danube. What are we gonna do about it? Why didn't you come out of the shackles of a missed economic privatisation concept when we're talking about concepts these days? Why didn't you try to save those companies? Why didn't you make them make plans? Why didn't you get them to speed up production, help them make the export? Why didn't you build a Serbian Development Bank? Why don't you develop a working stock for five years, then sell it. Why didn't you give what you gave to the Smederjev Irons? Put on a management competition and pay them well, let the companies do the same, especially in the processing industry. Here's Kocelev, he can feed half of Serbia with certain products. Why? No, for good. Who? Calculants, mixers, resellers. What's your defense not to repeat what's been going on? Which one? The Privatisation Agency? So let's be serious. Who will control the origins of these people's assets? Who? Tell me the name of the institution. By what law? How many taxi drivers are going to buy some businesses around Serbia, as bought by "Avala Film"? That's what you need to tell us. How are you gonna control those mechanics? Sixteen billion dinars you've defined in the severance budget. At least 20,000 people will be out of work at 80 companies, and these will be delayed for a year, so that's another 30,000. Serbia, this is what's waiting for you. Not because you want bad. Believe me, I'm not accusing anyone, especially you, Minister Sertice. No, I don't think you want anything bad at all. I think you're doing the best you can in the given frameworks, political, ideological, economic and marketable, but the problem is that this government is not ready to step out of it. She will blindly follow this principle. She will blindly follow the market. She'll let everyone go to the bureau, all these people, because there's no one to buy, my God. So what now? How'd the esteemed colleague say - he's not going to give the state a job? Well, go to empty Serbia and tell them. Or, better yet, I don't mean anything personal, so go and tell them why your party colleagues can work in the municipality and public enterprises, and they have to go to the market. And you prefer this? Well, go there to Serbian villages, go to "Serbianka-Valjevo", tell them what he can't get some help to do, some incentive, some new jar he'll sell, and his friend and neighbor who entered the SNS can work in a public enterprise and municipality and he doesn't care, the market doesn't apply to him. Now, that's the problem. You're not the real neoliberals. You're just neoliberating for the people. For you, you and all the budgets, the ethicists are clean. You've done everything you can, but not for the people. The people must go to market, or, to be exact, those who are not in your party. That's what we have to fight. So, Minister, if you can, except for this part of the lack of a clear criterion, why do only 17 and what will happen to the others, but not just severance, but what can this strategic government do for these people? Because that's not a question for these 50,000, 92 thousand workers, that's a question for all of Serbia, people. All of Serbia will pack and go somewhere. Most likely in Belgrade or abroad, who can. Then what? There goes the severance. Then who's going to ask the advances where the severance is? What a severance, they've paid back their debts. You can't get out, people, out of the crisis and the hole we've fallen into with these steady steps, which our government has taken over. Those are the wrong steps. That's what I'm suggesting, and I'm not attacking anyone. Just get out of the box. I think you, Minister, have succeeded, at least trying to save something on some deadline, get out of the box, and it's an honor that you've had the strength to stand up to Prime Minister Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28812	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28813	I thank the MP for this part that he has very clearly defined, at least the parliamentary group and the opinion of the parliamentary group, in which direction this law should go, whether it is a strict privatisation that will go no matter what the company is going to do, or if we will have the support to try to do something for another short period of time. I thank you for supporting this concept to protect at least one part of the company. What I disagree with you is the concept of how companies are selected. First of all, it's not 17 strict companies, it's a small number of enterprises, because we have one part of five-year-old companies that are legally independent, but it's essentially a smaller number of companies in general. On the other hand, these companies are very important from several aspects. One, I already mentioned how important "Jumko" from Vranja was to us, what debts he was in and how unemployed he was in the previous period. I told you that we provided jobs for Jumko, that today there are 1700 people and that they pay all their dues. So not only do they pay from their regular budget and business, but they pay taxes, contributions and pay energy and everything else they need. We have the process and the possibility of selling such a company in some future period, and so far we haven't really had the opportunity, except for the property and the hall, which is exactly what you're criticizing. It's not the point of selling assets and halls, even though the process is complicated, because if you're going to sell the property model, you have to have the 100% consent of all mortgage creditors and all the other complications that are in line with that. But one part of the company, one part of the companies that work in this real sector, will be able to collect their claims to get some fresh air. The process will not go quickly or easily, because the value of the assets needs to be determined and it has to be done. But a large number of companies we have today, and I mentioned it at first, everyone in the municipality certainly has a chance to know about some company that was purchased from bankruptcy. Here, we have now "Mitros" in Mitrovica who bought "Gerlinger". We also have a foundry in Topoli. So we have a large number of companies that get published every day. Now let's just split up one piece. He has a part of the process run by the Privatisation Agency, but the bankruptcy proceedings themselves are being conducted by the court and these things are being carried out through a court bang. What you mentioned about "Avala Film", I think it's very important first that we separate and remove the labeling of who's what. Whoever bought it, I don't know what they do and what they ended up doing from school and how the owners of the company that came forward, who made the guarantee, but I guess we'll all support that if something was paid to 980 million, out of which 150 million back taxes to the state, 80 million dinars paid back to Dunav Insurance, out of which I don't know how much money was paid back to the workers who had disputes with the company about the lagging debts, and when all that was collected with additional funds provided in the company, meanwhile, the state itself, the budget, since the state of Serbia owns half the capital in Avala Film, will get something around, it's estimated, 320 million dinars. So almost three million euros from that privatisation. I would really like for us to have every privatisation in such a way that we can pay the expenses and debts we had and finally get the money into the budget. I believe that no one is against it and that is the way through such models to unplug everything that stands today, and you have today because of the sea of regulations that we have passed in the previous period the inability to even single out property continents. The only way to do that is through bankruptcy. That's why I insist so much on bankruptcy. The bankruptcy isn't a terrible court for companies. For the largest number of companies he can serve right now. We had a situation, you remember the story with the MIN Locomotive, for days it was on the media that we put the wrong company and the debt company into bankruptcy, and that's what the company did in Macedonia, so they have millions of dollars. So, for days, the media has written about it. We called for a meeting at the Ministry of Business, all union leaders, directors and mayors of the city of Nis. We put on the table all the documents as to how much money "MIN Lokomotiva" was received from the state register, how much was not returned, what were the commitments made by other businesses, what were the huge minuses. When we put them in the business plan that they proposed to get out of the crisis, in terms of precisely the work they were supposed to get from Macedonia, they realized that they could not pay one salary from any means that they would get out of the money they earned without getting into new debts, and the state should give both guarantees and advance guarantees to start a job and give them more money for taking equipment and funds. When all this was over at the meeting, the union leaders themselves said that bankruptcy was the only way to save them, and that was because today the MIN locomotive works. So, the company's in bankruptcy, but 50 employees have jobs and repairs. Is it better to work 50 than no one? Well, it is. Is it worse than 50 than 200? Yes, it is. But we're working in a possible system, we have a framework in which it's only essential that we go towards a healthy and sustainable market business, because what we have so far is really neither healthy nor sustainable. I'm not going to repeat all the reasons we mentioned. I was particularly engrossed in the introductory presentation of all businesses, but these 17 companies are selected companies and the government will probably after adoption here in the Assembly, if everything we hope for, the government will bring a final list of these companies in which we will know exactly which companies we will leave space for, and indeed it is essential that these companies that are on the list do the job. So, not to prolongate the privatisation. I see today the text has been republished right from my speech, that we are now looking for a shift in privatisation. No, we're just asking to move deadlines against the collection of forced claims, so we don't stop the privatisation process. Please make it very clear that we use these terminological terms. So we're not moving privatisation in either case, we're just defining the circumstances under which our privatisation is about to be stopped and we're not going to be able to realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28814	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. Replica has the head of the SNS parliamentary group for mentioning the party and party president. Here you are, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28815	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, if I had just entered this hall when Mr. Stefanovic spoke and had not had any memory or political experience before, I would have thought that only members of the SNS were working in the state administration. No one else works, no one else in life in the state administration, in public enterprises, in municipalities, cities, ministries hired, no one, just SNS. Why, then, when we were cutting public sector wages at a difficult session, why were DS representatives the most noisy? Who were they protecting? Adversaries? They'd rather watch us drown than protect us. They were protecting their own, the ones they hired in the state administration. When we announced that the public sector was too massive and too large, in which only adversaries work, who rebelled first? A democratic party. Saving the advances? No, of course, saving their own, all those they've hired for 12, and God's sakes in Vojvodina and 15 years, as long as they're in power. It's hypocritical to speak and just transfer the burden to another. Why is it hard to say what I said several months ago and now – in party employment there are no innocents, except that the fault is directly proportional to the length of remains in power. Can't measure a year of SNS at 15. It can never be measured by the sin you've committed towards the public sector, by the sin you've committed towards public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28816	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28817	Two sentences, please. I haven't heard a single suggestion, except to continue a vicious hellish circle where you're just going to take some new parafiscal imposes, take some new loans, give in something that isn't healthy, sing lullaby to these companies and these people. Furthermore, because of populistism, which is why investors will also run away, which is why no one will ever decide to enter the private sector again, it is a hell of a circle. What separates us from you, Mr. Stefanovic, is that we have the courage, that we have the will to break this hellish circle in our society once.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28818	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Replica, head of the DS parliamentary group Borislav Stefanovic. Here's to mentioning the name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28819	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We were protecting and then, a respected colleague, doctors, teachers, professors, people employed in the public sector that you cut salaries for, instead of raising their salaries. But it didn't hit yours, as the people say, the bots you hired because they didn't even hope to be employed, and most often they have bought diplomas and imaginary jobs, so it didn't hit them much, any reduction was welcome because they came only here to write comments anyway. By the way, I've made three or even four concrete proposals to the minister. You may not have heard that well. The minister heard very well what I suggested. In particular, about 64 businesses in the food industry. Is it real or isn't it? I think it's real and I think you have a great majority in the Assembly, about the government not to talk, you can do these things, as you could adopt that party employment is a crime, and you're not going to do it. I think you should do it. As you know, no matter what comparisons she made with DS, which she also did, at least we didn't bring a ban and then we hired beyond your own ban, how you do it. Anyway, I just wanted to add a few sentences to the minister. Resavica, like a mine, can't be profitable. Nowhere in Europe, this guy's mine is profitable. Profitable and strategic is what's being taken out in the mine. That's why, in my opinion, it's normal for the state to maintain and preserve the Resavica mine, not for these people, several thousand of them, to end up on the street. That's the first thing. Another thing I've been getting multiple memos, believe me, lately. One's from the IMR, the Rakovic engine industry, where they're sending evidence that they have an interested buyer, that's what you got. The other is from an association called the Serbian Journalist Union, which is seeking to stop the privatisation of local media.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28820	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28821	Please say, is there any way to do this because these people are going to end up on the street and someone is going to open the warehouses instead of the local media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28822	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, a two-minute replica, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28823	I'll never understand why in the absence of arguments it goes to insult. Can a man in Serbia be called a bot? I knew about this man they called a bot, but for his initials, for the first two letters in his name and last name. Many people in Serbia have nicknames that way. Why are the bots not for you? Why do you insult those whose support you do not have? For what? Why do you insult 50% of the people in Serbia, 50% of the people in Serbia who trust the SNS government? Why something like that? Why hate, instead of dialogue? Why hate, instead of suggestion? Well, here, I have a proposition. We can talk about party employment being a crime, but it's a crime that doesn't get old, it doesn't get old. Not to be that – until when DS exercised power, until when she hired both dads and moms and snorkels and godmothers and friends and neighbors, all possible while she hired, well, then that was fine, then it was quite fine, and the moment someone else did it, I say – we are all guilty, but the fault is directly proportional to the length of the rest of the power. We can't talk about the same principle. Then let's talk about sharing responsibility. Why 17 companies? I can agree that some of these companies are pillars for those parts of Serbia, but have these pillars prevented it from spilling off so far?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28824	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28825	Have the laws so far prevented 45,000 people from losing their jobs? Did they prevent the fact that from 47% in China, up to 41% in one neighbouring Romania, 40% in the Czech Republic, the percentage of GDP participation in Serbia is 18%?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28826	Thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28827	What have you done, people, besides cheap pulsism? PRESIDENT: Honorable Members of the People, acting in accordance with Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Mr. Stefanovic, replica? Here's to mentioning the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28828	Whenever something doesn't suit you, you talk about hate and insult. I don't know, tell me what clothes to put on the fact that you like her? Team up by the fact, you'd say. You know, seeing as how this trend has been going since the prime minister, these are modern quotes, so today Lincoln's on the agenda, he said -- you can't escape tomorrow's responsibility by avoiding it today. That's what Abraham Lincoln said. So, as man and vice president and head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, I can tell you that. You know, we thought you could do it, and I can see that you think you can, too. Since you're in total terms, you're eight years in power, so it's exactly your fault, for everything that's going on. But now we're going into that calculation that you're not good at it, so we're going to go into the interpretation of slogans and words, and you're not very good at it either, you know, we heard it last night and on one television with an aircraft. So, I'm just asking you to tell me - why is the problem...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28829	Mr. Stefanovic, please, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28830	Okay, I'm sorry. It's nothing offensive. So, I just want to ask – what's the problem? Instead of seeing what happened to others, we follow all of the negative sides of the market-based neoliberal model that the other has ruined, to do something concrete, let's say, for these 64 companies. The second question, very specifically, I told the ministers what could be done, I'm sorry that my colleague didn't hear again. Please, just say out loud to those citizens, 92,000 workers - what will you do with them, when they spend their severances or when most of them are not in purchased businesses? Just say it out loud, bravely, with all the courage you have and faith in the Prime Minister, tell them what we're going to do with you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28831	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Replica two minutes, and that closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28832	It is likely that this amount of hate is put on along with Prada's shoes in which some colleagues come to the Assembly or go for a walk, and the same Pradine shoes, respected Serbian citizens, cost as much as your at least two average salaries in Serbia. That's where the money went. That's where all the citizens of Serbia's money went. Will one of my laps, another man, have someone in Serbia live better or worse? No, he won't. But if they hadn't spent millions of euros, wasted, stolen, stolen through the Vojvodina Development Bank, Bojan Pajtic's Fund for Capital Investments, through all those privatisations, through the optical cables "Nuba Invest" and Oliver Dulic, through all those Saša Dragina fertilizers and all those affairs through "Azotara", over all those powerful squares, hundreds of squares of business, that is, the third-class pasture on Vrakar, through all these things that were done, and that it was prevented, and that it wasn't done by people in Serbia would have been far better off. From one of the laps that even the one who noticed him here right now, and he noticed him on a show he might have seen last night, and he was present and he didn't hear it at the session of the Assembly itself. Yes, but this is the National Assembly in which different jargons are spoken, different languages, after all. There are men from Svrlig, and from Leskovec, and from Vranj, and from the kings, and from Priboj, and from Uzic. Are you ashamed of different people, different parts of Serbia? Are you ashamed that maybe, sometimes I don't understand my colleagues and neighbors from Triestenik? I'm sorry, I wasn't born on that third-class pasture in Vračar, but I didn't take from the citizens, as you did through the Development Bank, through various funds, through all these unfortunate privatisations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28833	The Democratic Party is mentioned. Please, the head of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28834	Here, I urge Mr. Chairman, to complete this cycle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28835	I'm begging you. If you don't give cause for replication, we'll definitely be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28836	Here, I'm appealing right now. No, I won't give it. I won't give it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28837	If not, I'll have to take a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28838	Okay, so indeed, respected colleagues from different parts of our beautiful Republic of Serbia, no one here is questioning the dialect as you say or the accent as you say or anything else in that regard, it's grammar. I don't know if anyone understands that difference. This way someone malicious, among which I am not, could say that in the beautiful, phenomenal, most beautiful of all in the world of Vranjska Banja, the air is said to be air, and not said. Therefore, do not bring your own neighbors into such an unpleasant, uncomfortable situation. And in other words, it can be clouded when someone works in a public utility company, and then the public utility from the directorial position makes a hotel called "Triffun" in Vranjska Banja, so now it can't explain where he gets the money for it, but it's already a different story.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28839	Mr. Stefanovic, you yourself said you would contribute to the quality of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28840	Well, I'll contribute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28841	You're doing the opposite. It's not right. Please bring the line to the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28842	I'm not at the shoe level, I'm going to the hotels. Do you understand? So it's still a higher level, you'll agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28843	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Babic Well, you just let it go and you weren't in the direction of the quality of this debate. [[Borislava Stefanovic, from the post: There is no basis for replication. No one mentioned a name.]] Replica, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28844	I will give Mr. Chairman, at this point publicly to Mr. Stefanovic, a year's gift in any hotel that is owned or owned by my family. What's called, and my late father's name is that, speaks of your pathological hatred and pathological intrusion into private matters. I don't want anything like this ever to happen to you like it happened to my family, Mr. Stefanovic, ever and ever. My house, Mr. Stefanovic, by which you were conducted to paint it, to see it, instead of being with your colleagues, is named after my late brother. An object located in the same yard that I inherited from my grandfather David and Father Trifun is named after my late father. According to people who have spent their century in Vranjska Banja and Lipova and of whom, not to be ashamed, but to be proud of these roots. And we can talk about the accent of the great-grandfather or the great-grandfather or whatever, but it costs as much as two salaries in Serbia. We can accentuate the damage, damage or whatever, but you broke them down and fled the scene, and they were owned by the Republic of Serbia. We can also talk about jobs at the Foreign Ministry where the only qualification was an uncle. We can also discuss how in a year from one to three categories of senior office at the US Embassy, the Serbian embassy in the United States. And we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28845	Thank you. I'm taking a two-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is by Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28847	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today is on the agenda of amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation, as well as part of the law relating to a very important part of our economy, what Mr Sertic was talking about, and these are amendments and additions to the Standardisation Act. The initial privatisation, when it started after 2000, practically turned into a grab, primarily the director of social enterprises at the time, to keep as many directorial posts as possible, and the companies eventually turned into voting machines of parties that were then in power, and no government, and no minister wanted to deal with this issue in depth. What the government of SNS and Mr Sertic, when you came to that place, was one hot chair that looked, that at all times it would simply collapse, for the simple reason, that you continued at that pace, simply not doing what the governments did before, you couldn't possibly get a real picture of which just now, after all, we all have a chance to see what Serbia looks like in terms of 526 businesses and privatisation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28848	Please, Mr. Bozovic, allow the MP to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28849	It is of great importance, and I think it is the first time in the Serbian Parliament, that the Minister of Economy is coming and with all parliamentary groups doing certain consultations, presenting his work, presenting the concept that should simply be adopted by this assembly, and regardless of what is now being said about 17 enterprises that need to be prolonged, you simply come into a situation that everyone has come up with certain information that no one has wanted to make publicly available, and least of all to the MPs. The MPs held a session of ad-hok by 2012. First the government worked, borrowed, credited, approved projects, and then held sessions where laws were passed at once. Simple consent for certain projects that were in million amounts was only then approved at the end of the whole process. So there's a conceptually large difference between the SNS government and Mr. Vukic and the government of all governments that were before. What's interesting to note is that every government would take off the responsibility that it did a certain privatisation and says, it's another party, not a third party, it's one of which you were or you weren't in power, but the fact is that the beginning was from Mr. Cvetkovic, who was the first director of the Privatisation Agency, so it continued to be the finance minister, so he came all the way to the prime minister's place. But even his expert opinion as a certain expert who he qualified for those places, the political majority at that point did not want to hear. So, all of this that we're talking about today and the need to complete the procedure just comes to the scene politically and gets the political weight of the moment it comes, the SNS heads up with Mr. Vucic. What's important is to say that the concept from last May to May practically went one step at a time and it's not true that nothing was done. It is true that an analysis has been carried out of all economic operators, meaning both social enterprises and enterprises in restructuring. It's true that we had 144 enterprises in restructuring, and those were really social enterprises. It is true that since 2002 there have been 234 enterprises in restructuring, and then they have shrunk down practically to 104, and then all companies have been sold in a magical way and are re-sold in the jurisdiction of the state, i.e. budget financing. Today, for the last year, we have scheduled competitions for four enterprises in restructuring and for another eight to 1 June. What is important to say is that another 28 companies to be announced are public competitions, and what is important is that these 17 companies, based on economic indicators, economics and rentability and profitability, can function in this market for the last two years. These were the characteristics and criteria on which you chose them. What we forget about you somewhere and we don't want to talk about, that we have to preserve certain companies that are practically on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, and essentially on Serbia's territory. Therefore, we must not be irresponsible and say – we do not want to finance, the type of our workers and miners in Trepca's mines, because it would lead by tomorrow to 4,000 Serbs lose their jobs and simply run out of work and get to that point to move out of that southern Serbia. So no one wants to talk about it, but they want to talk about our political inexperience whether it will compromise Belgrade and Pristina's negotiations. No, he won't. It will not compromise the negotiations, because Serbia must be responsible for leading its economic policy. From 2000 to 2012, until practically, until last year's adoption of the law, economic disaster in terms of general privatisation, everyone was pushing under the rug, and here we all agree. But somewhere we forget that part of the European directives that we have committed ourselves to complete this process. That the state aid, which simply came from Serbia's budget every year, was Serbia obliged to give, right, because it was used to years until 2012 that it became the principle of work, and today we say, there can be no 17-65. So this habit of simply giving rather than making money on the capital market has to stop and that utopia that you said must stop is the only acceptable concept not of neoliberalism, but of the survival of Serbia's economy. What do we get with today's amendments and additions to the law? We get that these 17 companies, which are of strategic importance, both the economic, national development of society in general, need to get a certain period of up to one year, not to say that, say, more than half of them have stepped up in certain negotiations regarding finding strategic partners and procedures that need to be discussed by certain public tenders. They should be given that deadline to complete the process they started. Privatisation must be completed by the end of these scheduled deadlines. It is not only our obligation because we want it as a government, but simply, as a responsible society, we have committed not only to the IMF, which we keep mentioning, but also to the World Bank, we have tied up all the projects, we have tied ourselves completely to negotiations with the EU. State aid from Serbia's 2017 budget will no longer be. We won't be allowed to pay out of the budget for certain public social enterprises of any authority of the state. It will have to behave sustainablely on the capital market. As much as they earn, they have to spend as much as they do, and it has to be clear to everyone. What needs to be said in the end about this law, that there are certain strategic projects that simply need special attention. We are somewhere in agreement with MPs who really believe that certain companies in the last two years have shown that they have very good results, that according to those balance sheets and successes, you see that they have great incomes, that these companies should be placed on special focus by the Ministry of Economy and they will know certain mechanisms with which they should be protected in order to get a really adequate price when they enter into negotiations with strategic partners. I think it's going to be the proposal of one of the amendments that my colleagues and I are going to give, and the other part is that we may also not want to forget, which is that many companies and social enterprises have hired and owned people with special needs. They need not be forgotten and that in some way we should also protect them from all this. We will, therefore, give it through a certain kind of amendment, but what is important to say and do not forget, you should say in every place that 50 companies have spent up to now four billion euros from the budget, i.e. citizens of Serbia precisely because we led as a state, as a society of an irresponsible policy thanks to the directors who lived in the past for their own good future, not for the future of society and state at all. The other legislation that has been amended and complemented by the Standardisation Act is, in fact, the continuation of those economic reforms which Serbia is on the road and which simply needs to be shown in the best light, it is that we have the possibility that as companies domestically obtain certificates according to international standards and that with such certificates they can appear, not only on the domestic market with goods, but also on the side. No one's saying that this certificate is what it is. "economic passport", because then you open many export import relations with other countries, including in the region, as well as within the EU and become competitive as a society, as business activities, as people who simply deal with certain activities for which they have international certificates. That's the main problem, let's just say, when we talk about strategic projects where our companies can't even go to competition because they don't have certain international certificates. Then we wonder why our companies can't be the bearers of international tenders? These are exactly the conditions that create these possibilities. This will bring major savings, primarily to Serbia's budget, but will open many business activities in this regard. What we had a chance to hear today is that our non-equalists would simply like to return to power with some cheap political pamphlets that are not taking this Serbia anywhere. These cheap political pamphlets simply lead to a picture being created in society of us destroying something, and what we're destroying has been torn down a long time ago, again 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. The wrong concept of privatisation that simply never came into life in this Serbia and only represented the object of the grab between, and the division of political prey and which represented, as I said at the outset, the voting machine. The concept can no longer survive anywhere, and this is the privatisation process of the entire economic restructuring finished in the countries of Central, Eastern Europe 20 years ago. It's a good thing we don't want to be late in those processes anymore. It's a good thing we want to finish it. In any case, in the voting day, we will accept this proposal of yours and thank you for really being so observant and on the board today, we have had so many opportunities to explain every detail and every procedure set out in this law that should give certain results tomorrow and in a year on the development of business activities in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28850	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Now we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28851	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with your associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I must primarily express one great satisfaction at the concept of what the Minister said in his opening statement, showing a serious dose of tolerance and desire to make the necessary consensus and dialogue on this very important issue in the National Assembly. Personally, as an MP for the SDS, I am aware that this is one of the biggest problems in our country, but also not wanting left-handed people, we, if in many ways and in some speeches heard it through the demagogue floscules, want to take a clear and realistic look at the situation we are in and not just deal with the consequences, but also to deal with the causes of this. I also expect a more constructive stance from the liberal opposition and attitude that will affect this together we come up with solutions that are best for our market and that are best for our economy. It is certain that these companies, which will in some way be protected in the next few months, will be able to come to one of the most qualitative solutions in their privatisation, i.e. the change in ownership structure, was only possible at this moment and of course I think that it is also very bad for our country that Mr. Shubara was just appointed last December 31st to this function, very responsible, the director of the Privatisation Agency, having in mind his great experience both in the economy and in monetary policy and knowledge of fiscal policy and everything else. As far as economic policy is concerned, I think it would be more quality and better solved, but we are in a situation where we are, which is very difficult, and when at this point we have to seriously consider the fate of 25,000 people who are working in these companies right now, who will only be protected in the next few months from having their trustees activate their claims. It is about companies that can, with a clear policy of reorganisation, be restructured and work quite correctly and quite successfully on the market and be efficient and effective and be productive and competitive not only at regional but also at the global level. Given that it is large companies, such as FAP, such as the Resavica mine, such as other companies that are very important to our economy and which in some ways are related to the fates of thousands of families, but also to the fates of not only small and medium-sized enterprises, but also large companies. I only mention an example of RTB Bora, which is directly tied to South Korea's "Jura" that buys raw materials from him, what if RTB Bor were to go bankrupt on 31st of this month? It would be a big problem, and it would potentially create a problem that many companies that create additional value, which are the export bearer in our country, which are the bearers of production and re-industriousisation that we need and how we all stand for together, would come into a situation where they are potentially thinking about going out of our country, investing in another, perhaps a more favourable destination, where a more favourable business environment is. We're not going to let the invisible arm of the market run us by the economy, but as a serious state, and in this way we're showing it, we're going to get involved in solving the problem of human destiny and the survival of these companies on a long period of time. This is how the socially responsible picture of this Government of the Republic of Serbia is shown, but also us here in parliament that primarily takes care of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of the interests of our companies, wishing that this problem, which has not been overcome for 15 years, wanted to be resolved and wanted to create conditions for the functioning of a modern market economy. We talked to Mr. Minister this morning at a board meeting and came to the conclusion that even in more than 90% of the cases, the generator of this crisis in which these enterprises are in restructuring and in the privatisation process is management that did not professionally do its job. In this way and this way, I ask you to consider perhaps the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Enterprises, that what we have done through the arrangement and the contract of professional management with Želizar in Smederev, we should potentially apply to all other companies and try to engage in the interests of both sides of the people in whom it is business, those people who can provide the market and who can be quite profitable to work in the interests of their companies, in the interests of workers who do so and in the interests of the state of Serbia in which we all live and work, and our greatest interest is that it develops economically. The same model should also be applied to public enterprises as we face major problems here, public enterprises are the generator of inequitableness in our country. Rarely, a public company, other than those that are successful, such as Telecom, such as the "Electro Networks of Serbia", has in general broken down the management concept of management, have divisions to manage human resources in these companies through building a clear model and recruitment procedures, selecting those who are best, those who are most capable and I hope that you will do the corporateisation process as soon as possible, so that those who are the most qualitative, most effective and effective can run these companies. Even from colleagues from the Democratic Party, who was an authorised representative of his parliamentary group, we have heard that he supports this concept of hiring professional management in companies in crisis situations. You have made a good point, and I have to look back at that state and how, and only the Ministry is working to help these companies, but I would be much happier if when it comes to Simpo and you cited this example, an arrangement with the Hilton hotel, which will be built in Montenegro in a few months, worth 2.5m euros, that it is not due to Zeljko Sertić, or Dragan Stevanovic, who also fought for this business arrangement, but those who are just running this company, those who will look for markets, those who will look for jobs as if it were their company and as if every day their lives and their families depend on the success of these companies. To those who have constant criticism and objections, without some suggestions of some concrete solutions, I recommend that they believe, believe in consensus, believe in dialogue, and I will finish my speech to the apostle Paul of the Second Corinthians, who says – if there is no faith, then your faith is in vain, but also our sermon. So, a little more measures, a little more constructive, a little more dialogue, and we can come up with the best sustainable solutions in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28852	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Pavicevic, I don't see that in any way in Mr. Vladimir Marinkovic's speech... (Gordana Comic, from the post: Liberal opposition. ) I thank you for the witty, Mrs. Komic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28853	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing a proposal for a law on privatisation of amendments and additions, and on the Committee on Economy with Mr. Sertic and the Director of the Privatisation Agency discussed the challenges that lie ahead of all of us. We know that this is indeed a huge and huge problem and a challenge for all of Serbia, and especially for the people and families who are being supported from these systems, but from the angle of the MP and the people sitting in this assembly, I think it is necessary to look at which position we are going from. So, last year, just ten months ago, this law was announced as an economic miracle, as something that will bring 90% of the solutions to all open privatisation issues and these systems in restructuring in the Republic of Serbia. We then warned you that some solutions would not be functional and that there would be no effect from that. You yourself said, and also from the report of the Director of the Privatisation Agency, we really got the recognition that it simply didn't work and that the capacity of an institution such as the Privatisation Agency was not sufficiently effective to carry out the process from the moment the law was passed in August of the month, that we lost some five months by the end of 2014 and that the time had not been used. As MPs, we should ask ourselves, what are the effects of the laws that we have voted here in this room? The effect, as we heard from the minister in the opening statement, was that there has been no privatisation in the past three years, or even in the past six years, but you as an executive authority and as a minister in this government, which lasts three years with different changes, bear that responsibility from the executive authority because you have brought on yourself that responsibility to organise institutions that need to carry out the whole work. When we talk about this division of power, you are in executive, we are here legislative, we have judicial authority, we have an absurd situation that no one has talked about so far, which is that based on one lower-level act adopted by the Government, on the exception and the list of 17 companies subject to this law, so we are now adopting a systemic solution in the Assembly that is adapting to this act adopted by the Government, therefore, the executive power, we as a legislative authority, and despite the Constitutional Court's decision, which, even in 2013, has declared Article 20g unconstitutional under the Privatisation Act. We are truly like the MPs in a very absurd position. How do we plead when we have all this in mind? In a possible expectation, Mr. Shubara, you said today that the Constitutional Court would change its decision on the constitutionality or unconstitutional nature of the same member we spoke of in August of last year, which we will be pleading on today or Wednesday, when they will vote in the Assembly on this subject. These are serious systemic challenges in this congregation. I think it's important to mention. And that's what we talked about. I expect an answer from either the Minister or the Director of the Privatisation Agency. When we talk about the director of the Privatisation Agency, here, we heard exactly that responsibility analysis. As an DS MP, I cannot really not talk about this responsibility, with the acceptance of this offer on the proportionality of the responsibility of all of us in this process and participation in the privatisation process in Serbia. Realising that, you have offered members of the parliamentary groups, and the opposition, to talk about this in a system way. But since we heard that kind of observation on the other hand, I really do need to say and it is very important to remind all of us, but also the public in Serbia, that the process of property transformation in Serbia began in 1988. Among others, ministers, in the process were Milan Beko and Jorvanka Tabakovic, directors of the Privatisation Agency, and mainly DS was accused as the key factor that implemented the privatisation process from 2001 to today, 2015, were Vladimir Čupić, Mirko Cvetkovic, Branko Pavlovic, Miodrag Djordjevic, Vladimir Galic, Vesna Djindjic, Vladislav Cvetkovic, Vida Zelelac, Marijana Radovanović and Ljubomir Šubara. None of these directors are members of the DS, nor were they. You will think of Mirko Cvetkovic, who was not then the director of the Agency and was neither the finance minister nor the prime minister. So you can think about the names and last names that may be in your parties, but if we share that kind of responsibility, I really think that DS is fully prepared and open to discuss this type of responsibility of each individual director of the Privatisation Agency and of all the people who participated from 1988 until today. We also have an absurd story that is repeated from the debate in the debate when the privatisation process is mentioned. You know where the biggest objections are, in which cases of privatisation, 24 controversial privatisations since 2004 are in the DSS and G17 coalition government, with minority support for the SPS. Of 24 controversial privatisations, 23 in that period. One out of that period is "Sartid", which you are now dealing with and which is then privatized by 23 million and you have attacked and attacked that privatisation process, and then "Sartid" came out of the phase of producing mushrooms, shampoos, and now it's at a technologically much higher level, after the participation of US STEEL and the whole process and it was much easier to raise at this stage than at that stage when it was privatized, and not from the privatisation agency, but from the bankruptcy process. So, so much for all these attacks on DS and the key and exclusive responsibility of DS. So it's important to share that kind of responsibility, proportionately, I totally agree, but with this data we now have quantified arguments for that kind of debate. What I asked as a question to you, as director of the Privatisation Agency, is one important issue, which is currently the status of the Privatisation Agency – is it able to deal with the privatisation of 500 systems in restructuring, if it itself has failed to elect its own status? The privatisation agency is 15 days in the blockade. One reason is, you see, it's not even the DS's fault, three years ago to pull five billion dinars from the privatisation agency into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Today, employees of the Privatisation Agency don't get paid. We adopt or we adopt that law on Wednesday, so I think it's very important as responsible people we ask -- how motivated will people who work at the Privatisation Agency be to do this big job and what mechanisms does the Agency's director have at the moment to disrupt and raise these people and is it in the view of getting out of the blockade? I think it's a necessary prerequisite for these people to receive some money and to think about their own existence. It is true, not only because it would be a political productive thing, but because the entire economy in Serbia will fall, because we see the effects of reform laws and the decline of industrial production of 7% in the last year, since public debt and index growth, of 73% of the public debt in GDP, which is the third worst result. That percentage was only less than 2000 when it was 203% of the public debt's participation in GDP and at the end of 2001 when it fell to 93%. Check it out well. So, after that period when, you see the case, the same coalition that was now in power of the then government, we have the kind of effect of all the reform laws that we have adopted here. That's why it's important, considering all this, let's think about this law that way and invite you to come up with a solution. We have motivated people who will directly participate in this process and think about how they will implement all this, and yet with respect and constitutional court and the expectation of a response -- how for the second time we are passing the Law on Privatisation, and despite the negative position of the Constitutional Court, especially at that point of 20g. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28854	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28855	I'll give a few notes and explanations to be in line with this discussion that's good and goes in good justice, because the problems are common and are something that we have to solve with common forces. First of all, you mentioned, I don't know if that's the wrong interpretation or if you're aiming at it, the government didn't adopt a document with 17 companies going to the so-called. Protection. So first it is necessary for parliament to adopt changes to the law. If we do so on Wednesday or on the day of the vote, at the government's session, the economy ministry will propose to the government a list of enterprises that should have up to a year's protection. So it's neither legal, nor possible for the government to do it now, nor did it. The other thing, I haven't heard, but I'm assuming that maybe we didn't get along well, that Mr. Shubara, as far as he confirmed to me, said that the Constitutional Court would change his mind. I didn't hear anyone mention the Constitutional Court would change its mind. That's impossible, because the Constitutional Court has its own position. Generally, about this and the law and this problem that we have, and about the member you mentioned, sometimes there are no ideal solutions, sometimes there are no situations where you can satisfy everything and then you choose the least bad solution or situation that allows us to overcome a crisis. For us, as the legislator of this law, and myself, as a minister, this is the least bad solution to try, since time is limited... So we're not proposing a permanent category now, which would be directly contrary to the Constitutional Court and say, OK, for businesses, we're asking for a change of law until further notice, to some new decision by the Serbian Parliament to change protection. No, we're looking for one number of enterprises by October 31st, and for the other part of the company, the minority, just one limited period, so I believe we'll have an understanding of all MPs for that matter. As far as the Privatisation Agency is concerned, you're absolutely right about what we've been commenting on. Your comment was just this morning on the Committee on Economy, where we informed you about the problems facing the Privatisation Agency, and that's a fact. One part of the job is related to unprepared documentation, unworkable papers, in the least said form, in the previous period. I informed you that we were looking for new solutions, that December 31st a new director was appointed, what he did during that period, what he found and what changes we made. We have very bravely solved this, because I think we need to reform them seriously, and even a lot of people, to shut them down. We'll have in 10-15 days, here in parliament, a debate on the Investment Law where we propose to shut down two agencies, to form a new one in a completely new corporate governance principle, not politically, not a burzar, not in any way. We're talking about an economy that doesn't know any category other than market business, but we'll leave it to it. As far as the Privatisation Agency itself is concerned, we mentioned earlier, as one of the MPs commented on the issue of bankruptcy, we will provide for serious changes in the concept and organisation of bankruptcy-monitoring institutions, so that one large part of the work carried out by the Privatisation Agency will be transferred. We have a proposal for another concept, an institutional framework, and the privatisation agency itself will suffer serious changes, only in the second half of the year or since September. When most of the jobs are brought to an end, we will come with a proposal that, in the future, we will monitor the processes that we started at this point, because when you do certain jobs in the privatisation process, you have a period of control over these processes themselves, in order to avoid the situation of someone cheating on you as a state. So how are we going to form a body that will monitor, one smaller group of people, enough professional and educated, who can do it professionally, we're going to talk about it in the other half, that is, since September here. You know, we're planning on making serious changes in the Agency's portfolios and those state institutions we control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28856	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. (Dejan Radenkovic, from town: Replica. You have no option, Mr. Radenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28857	Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry, respected representatives of the Privatisation Agency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, counterpart Radenkovic said we would support this legislative proposal as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary club. What I'm going to add is that, by supporting this legal, parliamentary club, the SPS actually wants to support the goal of adopting this legislative proposal, which is to resolve the fate of those companies for which there are conditions and opportunities for privatisation, i.e. to facilitate and help the privatisation process. We fully agree with you, Mr. Minister, when you say that everything that has not been done in the previous period of time, when it comes to the process and the privatisation process, should and must be done now and in that, of course, you have the support of the SPS Parliament Club. By doing some kind of chronology, it is true that the 2001 Law could not end and complete this extremely important process and process for Serbia. Unfortunately, by applying this law, the consequences are disastrous and devastating for the Serbian economy. We had some very weak businesses, the whole environment was bad. In addition to this finding, what you said in today's opening statement is that today we are actually talking about 526 companies whose destiny is to be solved, and somewhere, it seems to me, as much as 70% are companies that have already been privatized, so the privatisation has been broken and today these companies are in serious problems. You also said that the first 50 out of 526 companies have only four billion euros in debts, which are huge problems. It is also true that the law that we adopted in the Republic Parliament in 2014 did remove a number of irregularities and shortcomings that the 2001 Law had, and it is true that it did, in our opinion, make a qualitative shift, step forward, when it comes to regulating the process itself and the privatisation process itself, but it is also true that there are obvious problems in the application of a certain number of members of this law and these problems are just being solved by the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Privatisation Act, which we are talking about today, through three, I would say, major changes. So everything that could not be solved in the previous period of time will be resolved through three key or essential changes. The first change concerns that companies for which privatisation tenders have been announced want to be protected by 31 October. The second change that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can make a decision to protect a number of enterprises for up to a year. Third change – estimate of the company's market value on 31 December 2014. When it comes to what is in some way the first change, therefore, when it comes to companies that have administrative and all other potentials, so that their call for sale can be announced, these companies, therefore, want to be protected by 31 October, i.e. they will be protected from forced collection until the third call for privatisation is completed. If companies are sold, they will get new owners, that is positive, good, and that is the aim of the proposed changes. If that doesn't happen, the company goes bankrupt. As for the second change, also very important, the government will have the opportunity to make up a list of certain number of enterprises, bid on number 17, we couldn't see that figure and that's not the topic of the law we're talking about today, but the government will make up a list of certain companies that will be protected for the longest time in a year. What we want about the decision that the government has to make to say is that it's very important to have very clear and precise criteria, we believe that you have them, and that you should have one armed protection. True, protection is a year, but that protection can be relatively short. On the other hand, as regards criteria, it is very important that some of the criteria be the impact of these companies on employment in the country, but also on employment in the region, the impact of businesses on the work of other business entities in the country, the sustainability of businesses, the market potential and, of course, the strategic importance that companies have, if companies are involved in producing strategicly significant products that companies produce. What we also want to suggest to you is that, in our opinion, in the view of the SPS Parliament Club, the moment the government makes a decision on a number of enterprises whose protection wants to be armed, so for the longest time in a year, the resolution ministry, it is once again a suggestion by the SPS Parliament Club, and I think that you have this little moment and mentioned, that the resolution ministry forms individual teams for each company and that these teams are in constant contact with and with business management, but also with trade unions. Because, unfortunately, it is true that the leadership of certain companies did not aim and interest to start with a serious process and privatisation process. It is also true that the values that have been established for certain companies have made it difficult and impossible to complete the process and the privatisation process, and it is very important that, when it comes to one new assessment of market value, we look at all the changes that took place in the meantime, to determine the real situation of the assets, the liabilities of the capital and the real market value, as you defined, on 31 December 2014. Of course, it is not the idea and goal of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act that we are talking about today to prolong or delay privatisation. Of course it's not the goal of not finishing the privatisation. This is the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has committed itself by the Privatisation Act to the sale of social capital by December 31st and we believe that this job will be completed. Here's the point in the next one. Looking at opportunities and situations in individual companies where there is a possibility of ending the privatisation process, to help bring the privatisation to an end successfully. As for other companies where there is no possibility of ending the privatisation process, these companies are going bankrupt. If no reorganisation can be carried out through bankruptcy, they go into bankruptcy and liquidation. What is very important is that the resolution ministry, the government of the Republic of Serbia, has one social relationship with employees in the company. But it is also unacceptable for these companies to stand in one undefined and unresolved status. This situation cannot be extended and delayed indefinitely, that you have some sort of fictitious job, a minimum profit, to be a burden to the republican budget without doing business, not making a profit, not having a production. All losses, when it comes to these companies, are directly the burden of the republican budget. Indirectly, they are the burden of taxpayers. The moment they enter the bankruptcy process, they are a burden of their own property. So for the SPS MP club, privatisation itself is a national problem, and unfortunately, a huge number of Serbian citizens have felt the negative consequences of the privatisation process in the previous time period. This is a national problem for us both from the realization and completion of this extremely important process and process will depend on the country's many and economic future. As a parliamentary club, we support the intention, insistence and government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES ministry to find as many strategic partners as possible for individual enterprises, for as many businesses as possible, and to successfully privatise as many companies as possible. We believe that the changes we are talking about today will allow one fair and efficient way to end the final change in company ownership, the whole process to be transparent and if there was one level, I would say, maximum responsibilities. We believe that the privatisation process will end in Serbia both in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and in the interests of the employees and in the interest of the union, but of course also in the interest of the creditors. It is very important that all those I have listed be on the same page, because otherwise it is a very bad message for investors who are thinking about eventually coming to our market. So we're talking about, I'd say, the necessary compromises of several principles that are both of equal importance and of equal importance. What's the point? The aim is to preserve jobs in companies with a market perspective. I was just saying that the criteria that will define you as a ministry should be properly considered and that you should consider the strategic importance of certain enterprises. That's the point I'd like to make of the dibs on what you mentioned in the opening statement, and it's two companies. I think you mentioned them "IMT" and "IMR". So Serbia has great potential in agricultural production. Some estimates are that it takes about 15,000 tractors a year. Between 350 or 360,000 tractors in domestic businesses, it's just been produced in these companies. the restoration of agricultural machinery to domestic tractors for impoverished farmers with relatively small holdings is the most efficient and realistic at the moment. It should be pointed out that these two companies are mutually strategic partners. IMR produces between 30% and 40% of parts for IMT tractors. In the IMT tractors, IMRs are built in about 97% of domestic components, which are also directed at domestic producers and according to some of the data we have, have about 200 to 300 cooperative companies with about 5,000 employees. They have, as far as we can tell, strategic partners, seven interested strategic partners. It's about the production of a 90-year-old tractor, which places these companies in order of well-quoted manufacturers with highly trained workforce. I think both companies are hiring somewhere at the moment about 1,100 workers. Regardless of the problems these two companies have at the moment, we simply wanted to suggest to you, of course it does not question our support and support for the concept that we are talking about today, but we simply wanted to suggest, bearing in mind the potential agricultural production, the development chances that Serbia has in this context, that in terms of strategic importance you are also thinking about these two companies. So, at the very end, it is clear that the bill amending and supplementing the laws that we are talking about today, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry very clearly show by who knows which way politics is not and will not be above the economy and that this government does not exist because of political parties, political parties that are part of the ruling coalition, but because of the citizens of Serbia. We're talking about a model of how to look at models and how to offer solutions for future generations. So stop the process of economic eutopia because it's not a sustainable economy. Once again at the very end, in the voting day, you will have the support of the SPS parliamentary club when it comes to the objectives that are to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal. Thank you. (Dejan Radenković, from the city: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28858	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Here you go, Mr. Radenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28859	Member of the 103rd Vice President, you violated a member of the 103rd previous speaker when he spoke you did not warn him that it was false, and that is your obligation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28860	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28861	What are you thanking me for? Let me explain what it is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28862	I'm not going to let you use the Replicable Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28863	Just a brief little comment on the presentation of the previous MP, since he mentioned two companies that were once serious companies and large giants and hired far more workers than they are today. However, we faced many times in the previous period with accusations that we, like some other companies, no one wanted to receive, that they had no space at the Ministry of Economy to come, that no one at the Privatisation Agency wanted to talk to them. Now I tell you publicly in front of the cameras what I said at that meeting where we heard such an accusation – I call on representatives of the union, directors, management, members of the supervisory board, or I don't know who all there was to sit together in front of the cameras, to list how many times I've been sitting in meetings with the Ministry of Industry, who we've received from investors, how many conversations have been made at the Privatisation Agency. Two and a half or three months ago, we made a big meeting where we defined a team of people who needed an independent from us, here you people, make the model as you think it should, but to be legally framed, to be very clear and precise and enforceable and bring it to us, with pleasure I will sign it and make a proposal. You can't pull water out of a dry drain. You can't come from something that doesn't exist in this way that the proposals were, everyone just heard their part. We certainly heard from some companies from Europe and out of Europe and came with proposals, but they always say first – yes, we are interested and then representatives of the union, which I very much respect, and the directors hear that part, but they don't hear the other part when they say the same -- but we're going to come into the company under these conditions, because the first representatives of the most interesting company that was for IMT said – we're not going to have these workers, we're not going to work this way. We don't need this machine. All we need is a name. What would someone pay 10, 20, 30, 50, 100 million euros? No one's gonna do it that way, but people hear it selectively. They only hear what they want to hear and, in principle, responsibility, so that I don't answer to my workers, so that I can be a good union leader, I'll say – these worse ones haven't done anything. The director will wash his hands. Not only in this case, in many cases, and then they're all guilty up there, the Privatisation Agency, the Ministry of Economy and the head of the economy minister. I'm telling you that's not true. A number of times have been discussed with these companies, with investors, but the privatisation model within these legal solutions and with this transparency, which is required of us, and the way foreign investors saw it and what the company could offer does not exist. There are some other ways through the bankruptcy process, through the issuing of part of the property and what I said was that the state protects its share of property, to take over the building land potentially that exists. If someone came there really because of machines and equipment, then they should buy the factory itself and only that equipment that stands there and produces tractors or machines or whatever else, and not come to buy a million-euro piece of equipment that's old and spent, which no longer has any value through depreciation, and that's why in five years you're going to make a boom in construction on that part of the land. It's really not just an example of this. I just want to get this straight because I know that the company's individuals have been coming across MP groups and talking on a different side. That's why I said when I was finishing my part – please, I wanted to talk about arguments, talk about every situation. There is no man, nor are we sitting in front of you, nor is there anyone employed by the Ministry of Economy, the Agency who was not the goal of carrying out as many privatisations as possible, of packing up documentation as provided and of giving an attempt to anyone within the framework of packages that are designed to come to privatise. However, there are real problems real and objective. I've listed them, I won't repeat them again. Basically, I just want you to have confidence in what we're doing, that you know that we're seriously starting to work, that we've all come to work, that we've chosen teams, the best people from the Privatisation Agency to help us in this process, that around us are the most competent people who do their job. Mr. Tribunac is educated, V.D. Assistant Minister, that's his current role in the ministry, but he runs the entire privatisation process along with the privatisation director. A man who's been educated in America, who has more international certificates than any of us here in the O.R. These are the people who run the privatisation process and who know what we can, what we can't, how it exists and how. We will continue to do for every company, and for IMT and IMR we will also do everything we can to try through these other processes to find them a strategic partner, but there is one objective reality that must be respected by all the partners in this game, not just us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28864	Thank you. Replica, Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28865	It's not a replica. Just, first of all, to thank you for your answer. We have no intention, nor do I as an MP, of a representative of the parliamentary group to give any criticism and to say that the ministry has done nothing about these two companies. I didn't even mention you weren't interested in talking. On the contrary, we only made one suggestion because you mentioned these two companies in the opening statement, and I think it's a good thing we have one quality debate today, that we have an open dialogue and that we talk this way, one real approach with arguments and facts. You have made arguments and facts and we are grateful to you and, of course, I have said it many times in my presentation, absolutely not a question of trust in the process and the process that we all need to end together in Serbia, I repeat, in the interests of both the Republic of Serbia and the union, the interests of employees and creditors. Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28866	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly now set a break of 15.45 hours and I ask the heads of Parliament to invite the MPs to attend the Special Session of the National Assembly, which will be addressed by the President of the Republic of Italy, Mr Serjo Matarella and with the work of the 9th session of the First Regular Session, we will continue immediately after the end of the Special Session. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. He's not in the O.R. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic is not here. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28868	Thank you. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which is before us, is before us with ideal reasons to be well criticised. Six months ago, or a year ago, we were here listening to sweet words about that over 526 companies that failed to privatize will be privatized because the problem is the law. Then we faced reality, so we saw that it doesn't really work that way and that there are, unfortunately, reasons why the privatisation didn't work out. If you would like to describe the contents of this proposal in just one graphic sentence, then it will read – now we will finish, just to extend the deadline. I have a full understanding for the Minister of Economy, and I believe that we must all approach this subject in the most serious way possible. Two things I'm glad to hear. Today there are very few tones of evil will towards privatisation in general and very little negative. He's got reality and he's aware that maybe we can see differently the success of applying this law, but that some people are eventually going to lose their jobs, and that's what we agree on. It's a common concern, it doesn't matter who the government is and who the opposition is. That's why I think we should listen carefully to a different word and a different opinion. I only have two questions, two requests, a request. The first concerns the criteria which will be chosen to be on some sort of list by October 31st, or a year. The key to the minimum defense of the rule of law is that you know, not now to answer me, but to know that you answer anytime to be asked. If that's not the case, then it'll be a private agreement between informally powerful people who delivered lists to each other. I don't want that to happen, because it's no use to anyone. The second clear question you must have, not today, for me, but generally, is how the property problem in Kosovo and Metohija was introduced. We have a problem with consent with the Constitution. We have a problem because it explains that this is how we have to solve it because the Kosovo Privatisation Agency usurped the property and the rights on which we are entitled. Why do I think we should have a clear answer to that question? So that there is no interpretation that this is a point that interferes with the normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina, that this is the deliberate introduction of a provision into the law so that there is an excuse and a good excuse why some good processes do not happen. I want a clear, public, clear list of how the decision was made, who is there and why is something strategic, as well as a clear answer on how if what is included in the Law on Privatisation in Kosovo and Metohija affects the process of normalisation? Anything less than that, I repeat, not now and not here, will be common damage, however anyone after you or someone today interprets responsibility for the situation in which companies cannot privatize. Why am I saying I'm glad there's less ton of negative in privatisation? Because we need to face reality. Because when privatisation started, as one of my acquaintances on the Internet said, it only lit a light on an economy that hadn't exported in 10 years, over an economy that had reached 214% of the public debt in 10 years, over an economy that didn't work. The privatisation has only turned on the light, and I hope that together, and we from the DS will certainly illuminate it by making a greater number of people benefit from good solutions in enterprises in restructuring, that is, from the application of this law. Until we see clear answers, I don't think I can vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28869	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully followed this discussion on privatisation, that is, the amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. I would ask fellow MPs not to insult the intelligence of the human race in their future discussions and to represent the sale of "Maxie" Delez as a major investment. We sold a service company. So there's no production and there's no new jobs. To represent it as a foreign investment, personally offends me. The sale of assets is not foreign investment. You sold something, you spent it, and that's it. Someone mentioned that if we continue like this in Serbia, the last person to come out will turn off the light. Serbia was on the road by 2012 and I will soon tell you that privatisation was carried out, there were more models, that significant assets of the company were being robbed and that in the meantime 400,000 people were out of work. Also, I can accept that mistakes existed. But when you do something and you make a mistake, it's no big deal. But what happened with the Serbian economy, with the privatisation entities, it's not a mistake, it's an exclusive intention. Don't be under the pretext of a mistake and at the political price someone paid in the election. Who cares about your political price paid in the election when people were out of a job? Still those who have implemented such a single policy in the good part or the hair on their heads is not missing. Some former ministers who came from a city in Shumadia with a single guitar are now presenting themselves as successful businessmen in Kopalnik. Today, we have a mind of some former vice-presidential government, as respected professors, what we should do, and they showed us what they did. Under the pretext of criticism, be at least a little honest with yourself to say: those who exercise authority are not right, and they trusted you as MPs. I don't know how some fellow MPs experience politics, but I don't experience that politics is all allowed and that any MP, any minister, any president of the municipality, any republican, local or provincial official has the right to lie, to know that he's lying just to get political points. I've heard a lot of things when changes were proposed and some laws were added to the agenda, but let's put it in order. What is the problem with enterprises that are in restructuring, which are privatized and returned to the state, with companies that were at some point planned for privatisation? Let's talk about these companies first that were supposed to be privatized, here, until today they're not. They kept recording the losses in their work. The excuse was to buy social peace. If social peace were bought and workers were cared for, there would be no such pay for the management of these companies. These salaries were given to them by all governments by 2012. What are the economic effects of this policy that these leaderships have implemented? Terrible. I wouldn't be able to defend that policy if I were you. My education wouldn't allow me to defend myself. That's your problem. Now it's supposed to be a story for workers to care about, and it didn't matter when laws were passed here in the Assembly that the initial value of a company's capital is 20% of the company's book value. So something that costs 100 million dinars, bookkeeping costs ten, and the starting price is two. We'll go back to Jellyzar. That reminds me very well. We will return to Jelizar and to 2003, both in 2012 and in 2011 and how we got the same losses there. You're the only one who's looking for the subject. For each of your subjects, we have answers as to how you led the country. What was going on back then? They were buying cheap businesses, somewhere for money. So they immediately had full assets. They sold that entire property at twice the price they bought from the state. It's not a big deal, either, on one condition, that they took care of the workers. No, it was only in the interest to put as much money in your pocket as possible. Then we come to the fact that the laws are written by 2012 for a narrow group of people. The second way of privatization was on a five-year delay. How did they do that? They concluded recapitalisation agreements with the Privatisation Agency. How did that end? In addition to the Agency's agreement, the privatisation entities were borrowing money in the market. Here, I'll tell you what it looks like in practice. Let's say, here, pal, don't think it applies to you, Mr. Veselinovic, but let's say you have three companies. One of your companies, or you yourself, buy something out of privatization for small money and immediately move on with the sale of property, and even the cash that the company has. Then, the funds that you have raised with bank transactions, you pay your other company, and then you transfer it back to the third company. Meanwhile, since the company was not 60 days in the blockade, the other one that received the privatisation of the funds, announce bankruptcy. Don't report debts, don't report claims, call the Agency, finish the bankruptcy of another company first, call the Agency and say, "I won't privatize this, I'll pay you back." How? In debt. There's money at the third company. What can a trustee do? Nothing. To chase the debts? Well, they're located at a company that's been shut down in the meantime. The debtor is dead, no heir, no nothing. That's how the capital that's been real is 50 years. Why? Because it was possible to buy cheap. Because it was bought for very little money. Here, that famous story about Sartide, it's also a good example for you. The company that owed the most to domestic banks, about a billion and $200 million. Then this famous university professor, under very suspicious circumstances, as director of the Agency for Rehabilitation, Bank bankruptcy and liquidation, write off Sartida's debts. But in order for this to be brought into a legal form at least a little, wait for an unauthorized court in Belgrade, rather than a competent trade court in Pozarevec to conclude a contract with US Steel. When the contract was concluded to sell Sartid for 25m euros, or $35m, then the famous professor wrote off a billion dollars in domestic bank debt. Then someone came into possession of a very large and expensive asset, for small money. He worked there as much as he worked, estimated he was no longer worth it, and then heard the government of Boris Tadic say -- we buy it for one dollar to have social peace. That's not true. We bought it for a lot more money. The contract said one dollar or one euro, I don't remember any more. We inherited 300 million debts, US Steel in Sartide. So we paid the company, which was our property, 275m euros plus one euro. That's what democratic governments have been doing since October 5th. Do they care about the workers? Here's an example of the Tiger. The one who produced the car program was sold, there was something else, there were 500 workers, until 2011 a constant loss. You may object, you have final accounts, so check it out. Why? Because one former minister and one former MP took care of the company. You know why? He didn't care about 500 workers working in the Tiger. He cared how the Tiger would come into bankruptcy to buy a resort that belonged to the same Tiger in a cheap way. A great expert. The people nicknamed him "dericocose", "the duke of Meridian Bank". You think the examples of Sartide and Tiger are lonely. Unfortunately, they didn't. We also have this story about privatizing travel companies. Well, that's the model I was just telling you about -- how we're going through financial transactions to rob companies that were bought for a little bit of money. To make things worse, whoever came up with that plan didn't want this to stop. These companies, under the pretext of keeping jobs, were returned to the state, the state was still in debt, the state continued to pay incompetent and thieving leadership in these companies, huge amounts of money. Why? To bring up that company that's healthy and still doing it, so that it has the same fate as these first companies that are privatized. I guess my fellow MP, when he talked about turning off the lights, thought of that plan, that the last one coming out of Serbia would turn off the light here. Just a little bit, it seems to me, that the government of Alexander Vukic has broken the bill, so the lights won't be turned off, and there won't be any more such privatisations. You don't have answers to questions. How is this "Tiger" 2011 a loss, 2012 a profit, 2013 a profit, 2014 a profit, a salary payment for 500 workers, a regular payment of contributions and a pension for the state? How could you not solve the problem of Sartida? Many of those who have exercised power in Serbia have done evil to the citizens. I don't think we're aware of how much it is ourselves. I can list for days the companies that have been destroyed this way. We want Minel from Mladenvec, a company that worked, which had production, which had contracts, is now burdened with 50m euros in debts and is in restructuring. Where's that 50 million euros? Did the workers get paid? No, they're not. They ended up with another company, the second one paid to the third one, and the second one was shut down and so on in a circle. Now the state's got it to solve. That's what this government has to do now. I'd like you to count on how much public debt we owe so you're telling the truth, take the paper and the pen, and figure out how much public debt we have on behalf of the companies that have been privatized, then paid back to the state, and in the meantime, robbed. If someone were to take care of these citizens, we wouldn't have a law like this today. I would like to see, I will propose it for the Nobel Prize, let the Government of the Republic of Serbia propose it for the Nobel Prize, if these companies without this law can get out of all the problems they've been brought here since 2001 with crisis headquarters, with ministers who've come to the Assembly with guitar, and now they're respected businessmen, with teachers who have been vice presidents of the government, so they've destroyed our financial sector, and now someone says, don't work for foreign banks. Well, we don't work for an early bank. You've closed your house. What are you talking about? We've all become the state hostage of foreign banks. Well, it's not this government that led us to this situation, it's the governments and Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic, all the governments by 2012. Alexander Vukic's government solves problems, and don't try to identify yourself with the one where I said it's not moral to lie in politics, because you know the truth. When you know the truth, the lie is even worse. That is why we will have no problem voting for these laws, to see what we can save from these companies, unlike those who wanted to turn off light both in these companies and in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28871	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has been made by Professor Janko Veselinovic, I assume a replica to mention the party's president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28872	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, not to replicate that part of the mention of my name because I really didn't recognize myself, as Mr. Arsic said. However, I would remind Mr. Arsic that the one from "Meridian Bank", as he called it, is now your privatisation adviser, Telecom. Alexander Vukic chose Lazaro as Privatization Advisor, Mr. Djelic, one thing. The other thing, incompetent and thieving companies and incompetent thief leaders, are now all your executives by various ministries, various staffs of the G17. Well, you can't open the door from them. Who's in jail? Who's in 24-privitation prison? You're swallowing dumplings, Mr. Arsic. And, day and night, Alexander Vukic talked about 24 privatisations and 24 theft privatisations. It's not gonna happen. No one has been arrested and today Mr. Arsic tells a fairy tale everyone has forgotten. You're talking fairy tales, Mr. Arsic. Twenty percent of the bookkeeping value, so I'm Mr. Vukic said he'd be happy if someone bought a dinar for the Iron, which is why I brought it up to you with Jellyzar. And you would certainly be happy if someone for one percent of the book value bought these 500 and some businesses. Who can privatize for the accounting value of the companies that are in collapse? The results of various governments from Mirko Cvetkovic to the government of Mirko Marjanovic. If you want, we can do it the other way around, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28873	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Yes, Mr. Arsic, you have the right to a replica, but before that, Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28874	Please, just for clarification, when Telecom Serbia announced a public invitation to collect bids for a privatisation adviser, the company "Lazar Fress" reported, won the contest, gave valid documents, guarantees and anything else that goes into the process. Mr Djelic, I read in the media that he works in the company, and it has nothing to do with it because a whole part of the work is done by a completely different team and has never been in the government of Serbia or the Ministry or in Telecom, it is personally in any way, and it is a private company that chooses its way of functioning and working. It is important for us that she is valid, that she can do her job, and whether the newspaper articles say that Mr Djelic is employed there or not, we really can't talk about it. In the official process, there is no Mr. Djelic in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28875	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. He has the word, Mr. Veroljub Arsic, to mention your name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28876	You know what, there's a big difference, it all happened during the government of Boris Tadic and some others. For example, a robbery of Agrobanks during the government of Boris Tadic. Vojvodina Development Bank, during Bojan Pajtic and Boris Tadic. I don't see the difference between "B" "B", but not Brigitte Bardo, but Boris and Bojan. One more thing, when you mention the company that Božidar Djelic works in, remember other companies that were doing a capital assessment in Serbia where one of the co-owners was exactly the privatisation minister. Do you remember that? You forgot that. You have a selective memory. I said more than once, you paid the political price, but the most expensive price was paid by the citizens not by you and I'm sorry that because of the legal regulations, because the laws and written that nobody is responsible for making abuses, they are not able to be processed by some. Those are the laws you wrote. As far as accounting values are concerned, imagine when you clear all corporate debts, move everyone over to the state, and then sell it at the accounting value of 20% of that book value, and everything else pays the state. The time when these companies were privatized, when they could sell well and through good sales to save themselves they passed. Now, unfortunately, we have economically incompetent companies that we have to take care of and these workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28877	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has the head of SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic. Replication to the mention of the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28878	Whether or not Mr. Arsic swallows dumplings, it is a question of discussion, but what is definitely known is that because of the incompetent, unprofessional, incompetent, poor policies of Boris Tadic, many people in Serbia have lost their jobs, some without a future, and the largest number without a piece of bread, not without a dumpling. When someone mentions 24 and realizes that this breath is a sigh after those times that will never happen again, I know where it comes from and thank you, Mrs. Comic. When we speak of 24 controversial privatisations, these 24 controversial privatisations occurred in Boris Tadic's time, and now that same Boris Tadic says, and why didn't you catch the thieves? I ask you, and why did you let Boris Tadic steal from those 24 privatisations? Why did you ignore the late Veronica Barach? Why did you ignore the views of the EU that told you that 24 bad, robbery privatisations were made? But I hope someone in this room knows that the judiciary is an independent branch of power, that someone knows, if Bojan Pajtic doesn't know, so he says when I come to power I'm going to arrest, that at least the professor of law, or the professor of law, forgive, knows that the judiciary, the prosecution, the courts are doing it. You did not have the power to investigate these 24 controversial privatisations, and now you expect Mr Arsic, from me, from Mr Sertic, to order judgments. No, we're not gonna do that, because we respect our country...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28879	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28880	... Because we respect all our institutions and because we treat our country with responsibility for politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28881	Thank you. The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, mentioning the name of the party president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28882	Indeed, I'd like to return to the debate about the law, but I can't help but answer some obvious untrues. First, of the 24 privatisations in question, which are even controversial on some issues for the EU, only one was partially done at the time of the government of Boris Tadic, as you say. So 23 privatisations were made at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, with which you are now his party to this day, I don't know from tomorrow, in a coalition at all levels, for the sake of truth. So we're not saying that you're supposed to arrest the ones who did these robbery privatisations, but you should ensure the conditions that the independent judiciary does it, but you didn't do it. There are two reasons, or two options. One is that it is really incompetent for the judiciary and the prosecution, and another option, which is also in circulation, is possible that you and these people, who participated in these privatisations, have some political deal. One of those two is certainly true. So either the institution doesn't work, because you're incompetent, or you have some deal with them. Well, you don't think the opposition can stop that investigation, do you? You secure an independent prosecutor's office, an independent court to investigate these robberies you've been talking about, to investigate these robberies you're talking about, and then to talk about the subject, instead of going back and forth for three years, as far as you're in power, back. Let's talk about 500 and some businesses. Don't let us go back 10-15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28883	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. Head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28884	Someone here isn't even able to go back a year, so he doesn't know who the finance minister was at the time and who the economy minister was. So much for turning backwards. When in 2012, there was an election will to change the government, in the Special Court for Organized Crime in some drawers, which was so thickly covered by spiders and dust, we found, or found, I never entered the Special Court, two charges were found. So many privatisations, so badly done, so many robberies, so many people lost their jobs, so many ruined companies, two indictments with two fingers of dust over them. Well, then who made those deals? Those who did not press charges, and those who were raised were in the dust. Well, you did it. In a year's time in the Special Court of Organized Crime, 158 counts were filed. What are you talking about? Well, they're your friends, so they're your pals, so you've been funded by the parties, and now they're funding them. On the other hand, as far as this capable or incompetent judiciary is concerned. I'm not competent to do it, nor am I insecure so I take on myself, such a role, but these are the people you brought in. Well, no one's been out of a job in the judiciary for three years, no one's left the judiciary, no one's been brought in. Well, if they're incompetent, you're responsible again because you brought them in, if you claim to be incompetent. Well, that's your reform of the judiciary, so that's a reform for which no one, no one in Serbia or outside Serbia has said a single good word. What are you talking about then?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28885	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28886	What kind of auto-projection you're looking at, and you say it's yours, you've made a deal with them. Well, that's your auto projection, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28887	Thank you, Mr. Granny. To get back on the subject, I'm taking two minutes off. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go, Mr. Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28889	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, representatives of the Ministry, the Agency for Privatisation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, faces today amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, which prescribes protection from forced collection for 17 strategic, essential enterprises for the Republic of Serbia, as well as the protection of businesses in the privatisation process which were subject to abuse in 2012, and today these companies are burdened with numerous requests from creditors, which could, in the event of forced collection, completely stop the privatisation of these companies. Unfortunately, more than 500 companies are now in the process of privatisation in a difficult situation. One of the reasons for this is the old Privatisation Act, whose application, and not applying, has caused great damage both to the economy and to the citizens of Serbia, with the Serbian industry almost completely destroyed. Thanks to the abuses afforded by the old Privatisation Act, much of the citizens have been poored, much of them are jobless, and more than 2300 of the companies sold privatisations have been broken, even in 680 cases. For this very reason, this assembly majority last year adopted a new Privatisation Act which removed these shortcomings, however, the Law that was then adopted prescribed deadlines for the postponement of the mandatory payment procedure on the property of enterprises, in the privatisation process that must be changed, as otherwise many companies where privatisation was not completed would be at risk of being threatened by forced payment by creditors. For the very reasons mentioned above, the Government has proposed that these amendments and additions to the Law be amended, so that the deadline for the possibility of launching a mandatory collection procedure for enterprises of strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia is extended by one year from the date of entry into force of the Law, and all to save these companies for which there are real conditions for sale. Real conditions for the sale of these companies exist, as these companies, after the ticking they were exposed to before 2012, and now thanks to the efforts of the government of the Republic of Serbia, are showing economic recovery today. On the other hand, these companies are, on the other hand, threatened by the said corruption today, i.e. by a number of forced collection procedures by the creditors, which is why it is necessary to postpone these proceedings, so that these companies are not threatened. It is 17 companies that are strategically important for the Republic of Serbia, some of which were once giants, such as Galenika, FAP, FAM, Jumko, Resavica, Ikarbus, RTB Bor, etc. These companies today employ more than 20,000 people, whose jobs could be questioned as to how this law would not be passed. These amendments to the Law also protected companies for which the Privatisation Agency has called or will only call public calls, and until the day of the amendments have been made, and they will be protected from forced payment, all of 31.10.2015, which will allow these companies to be sold successfully. Also, these amendments to the Privatisation Act also protected companies operating in the KIM territory, which are indeed operating in a very difficult market, where they are exposed to the confiscation of property, where they are exposed to illegal privatisation, and that is why we must protect them, both their property and the people who work there. These amendments also propose the harmonisation of assets, liabilities and capital entered into in the sales documentation, with a factual state, so that, after the entry into force of these amendments, all privatisation entities that are under the sale process will have to update their assets, liabilities and capital with 31 December of the last financial year. This alignment will bring the deviations to the minimum possible extent, all in order to facilitate the control of existing assets and liabilities, and this harmonisation gives certain certainty to the potential buyer himself, who will take a closer look at the real situation of the company's assets and obligations. It is significant to say that these amendments also specify criminal policies in order to prevent abuse in the privatisation process, so criminal responsibility is extended to certain persons responsible, not only to persons authorised by the Privatisation Agency, but also to the buyer himself in the privatisation process and in the case of giving untrue or incomplete information on property and liabilities, or to supply incomplete or incorrect documentation, for which these persons may be sentenced to prison sentences from three months to five years, and to fines of 100,000 to a million dinars. I believe that by proposing these amendments to the Privatisation Act, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made a well thought-out move, which has been extorted by a difficult situation in many companies that are in the privatisation process, a situation that is due to abuse and neglect during the rule of the previous regime, which is why these changes are now a necessary condition for the successful completion of the privatisation process of enterprises of strategic importance for the Republic and other companies that are in the process of selling. In Voting Day, I will support this law and I call on all my colleagues to do the same, to support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it makes for Serbia's economic recovery and for the benefit of more than 20,000 people working in these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28890	Thank you. Mr Mirjana Djokovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28891	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia who are following our discussion today on certain legal amendments to the Privatisation Act, and by an urgent procedure, because it is very important that the application of this law be ensured as soon as possible, because we avoid the adverse consequences, both on the social and on the agenda. This law will eliminate many shortcomings in the previous law. As an example, I will take the government's proposal to exempt certain privatisation entities, which are entities that have strategic significance for our country. We must not forget that these strategic firms employ around 25,000 workers, so that going to these firms into bankruptcy and losing a job for a large number of citizens leads to major earthquakes in the Republic of Serbia, both on social and economic terms. The delay in the period for protection from forced collection to one year from the date of entry into force of the law opens the possibility of attempting to revitalise these entities and to preserve jobs. All that hasn't ended in the past 15 years, now we have to finish, and that's through three major changes to the Privatization Act. The companies for which privatisation tenders have been announced receive protection until 31 October, the government may decide to protect up to one year and assess the market value on 31 December of the last financial year – that requires the harmonisation of the state of property, liabilities and capital in the sales documentation with the fact that derogations are reduced to the least possible measure. The point is, then, that for the maximum number of enterprises, a strategic partner is found or we sell them. It's a good thing that a serious 16 billion dinar transition fund has been prepared, and in agreement with the IMF, we don't need to break the rules. The bottom line is that all workers whose businesses get into trouble, take severances, and, at least temporarily, solve their social problem. The new law will determine who goes to heaven and who no longer stands a chance. The story must end as best possible for the state as well as for an army of people who will lose their working legal status. It is important to note that there is nothing wrong with all activities if these activities are transparent and it is important that there are no transactions made under the law. Now we have three groups of companies. The first includes 17 companies that have been protected from creditors for a year, in the second group there are 28 companies for which the documentation is valid and for them will be called the second round, a public call for sale, and in the third is 117 companies, where protection from creditors ends on 31 May. There's no hope for the remaining 340. That means they'll have to go bankrupt. Workers of the government's plan to go bankrupt can count on the assistance of the transition fund, and the funds they receive should not be spent on current consumption, but on the launch of their own business, whether they work independently or by association through the establishment of new small companies. And again, in this army of people who are left without a job, there is a significant number of people who are determined in their profession and only have a little courage, and let this be a kind of appeal, that the funds are used to invest in a better future, that they certainly earn for themselves and their families. We conclude that the positive privatisation effects so far are extremely modest and that they are negative to their full extent. The privatisation process is still far from its perfect end, but our government does everything to keep as many jobs as possible through its activities. It's absolutely clear to me that privatization is not a magic machine for profit-making and that it won't lead to efficiency growth so quickly. The situation we inherited is that companies are economically weakened, the position of employees is very difficult. Someone forgot before us that privatisation isn't just an economic matter, it's always a socio-political thing. Our government is doing everything and making every effort to achieve positive shifts in its transition process, both in achieving macroeconomic stability and in reducing the unemployment rate. So we're not going to crash the beginning, but we have to correct the mistakes and give further affirmation of the elements necessary for an efficient market economy. Finally, it is very important to say that this government will not grant subsidies to non-productive enterprises, but must enter even into public sector reform, which will be one key determination of the success of a government. And to recapitulate today's discussion, privatisation will be completed within the legal deadline and the process will be conducted in accordance with all the legal rules. It'll be completely public and open. In Voting Day, with my colleagues from the SNS Group, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28892	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28893	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests from the Department of Industry and the Privatisation Agency, I will try to be very brief. The government has taken over many difficult tasks, but it seems to me that one of the most difficult is to revitalise the economy, reform the public sector and finally end privatisation in Serbia. The privatisation law was passed last year, to remind those who have forgotten little, passing a very good public debate, both domestic and international. Only the extension of the deadlines proposed by these amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act applies to a group of enterprises, which shows the readiness of the ministry and the government themselves to finally complete the process. Although we are aware that almost all restructuring companies are technologically lagging behind, 50% of them are no longer operating, the market is lost, the lost suppliers, debts to the state, etc. By putting forth maximum effort, we will soon close this page of ours, through finding strategic partners, customers, through bankruptcy and so forth, and finally know where we are. We'll complete the process of spilling the hollow into empty, repeating privatisation procedures and so forth. We are aware that, because of the poor judgments in the privatisation, we will all pay together on the basis of court rulings for the illegality of breaking up some privatisations. But we'll deal with it. I will only list one example of bad privatisations, so to speak, which is the privatisation of "First May" from Pirot, which was first conducted in 2004, and the break of privatisation in 2007, so in 2012, it was privatized again, and in the meantime it returned to restructuring. Money has been spent, SIEPA has been encouraged, and today, street workers, management is not responsible, so let the ministry deal with these problems. Given that Mr. Shubara is also impatient because he is facing a great deal of work to return to the Agency, and also the people of the Ministry, I will end it and wish you a great deal of success in future work and on Voting Day we will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28894	Thank you, Mr. Kostic. The word has Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić, and let MP Zoran Bojanic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28895	I would like to begin by saying that today on the agenda of the Assembly, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Standardisation Act is on the agenda. Both laws and how important they are, above all, from an economic point of view. The SNS' strategic goal is the economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia and economic recovery on a healthy and realistic economic basis. Only the economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia can lead to new employment and further progress of the Republic, as well as all its citizens. What I want to point out is that the draft law amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act achieves several objectives. First, companies that have strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, as well as enterprises whose property is located in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, are either mostly active or are based in the area of this AP, are protected from forced collection of claims, i.e. from forced enforcement by creditors for up to a year. It is companies that have strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, but also enterprises that have great importance regarding employment issues. They also have great importance in terms of regional employment and regional development of certain areas, but it is also about companies that currently have liquid liquidity and products and provide funds for their liquidity maintenance. What I would also like to stress is that these amendments and additions to the law also protect businesses from forced collection and forced execution, and at the latest by October 31st of this year, which are companies where a public call for the sale of capital of enterprises is called for a public invitation to choose a strategic partner. I would also like to stress that I come from southwestern Serbia, from a city located in the Lim River Valley, from a city where the entire Lim Valley during the previous regime, whose backbone was DS, was referred to as "the valley of the hungry". The arrival of the new government in 2012, namely the arrival of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, in this southwestern part of Serbia, which includes Priboj and Prijepolje and Nova Varoš and the complete Zlatibor County, gave rise to the hope and security of the citizens of these municipalities that economic recovery and economic development would take place, as they are a symbol of this end of the southwest part of Serbia's trucks. The first statesman to come to Priboj not to take a picture in empty factory halls, but to face the problems that were going on in the car factory Priboj is our Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. He came in October 2013, and immediately in November 2013, a working group was formed to help find a strategic partnership. May 30. In 2014, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Finnish Factory for the Production of Heavy Trucks "Sisa Car". January 23rd. In 2015, the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a decision on the privatisation of FAP through a strategic model, where a new company will be formed and where the Republic of Serbia will enter into a strategic partnership with the Finnish "Sisa Car". This means practically the economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia, but also the re-recognition of the Republic of Serbia on the map of countries where it will be recognised for the industrial production of heavy trucks. Certainly, the SNS in the voting day will support both law and law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28896	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28897	Thank you. Gentlemen of the Department of Industry, Mr. Shubara, colleagues and colleagues, this proposal to amend and supplement the law is just a normal trail of what this government is doing and the law that we passed here last year and an attempt to bring an end, and here we all agree, one unsuccessful privatisation that has burdened us and tormented us for years. What surprises me in today's discussions is just trying to impose some collective amnesia, cover all the snows of oblivion and chess. That's exactly what we can't allow. I'd like to ask the gentleman who participates in both the Agency and the Ministry of Industry to keep strict accounts. It bothers me that in these proposals of the law there is no consensus against those who are precisely these economic operators, and even over 500, brought into this situation what they are in. I don't mean just the former government. First of all, I am referring to the management of these companies, the representatives of capital, the directors who allowed them to come, to the workers, and I will take a simple example from the city of the Kings from which I come. A colleague of Cica mentioned a little before this town of the hungry. Well, the King looks like a hungry city now. A city that had a phenomenal industry, a heavy industry, a Magnochrom car factory, not to mention strong trading houses. I'm going to mention the Car Factory as an example. We have a car factory, we have a unsuccessful privatisation at the Ukrainian company "Az impeks", which ended up in the end so that the privatisation agency is now in a blockade and because of the four million euros that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we all citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to return to those foreign investors, because they got a verdict, about 495 million, as far as I know, and all of us are now returning it because of someone who allowed the workers of the Car Factory to 30 months have not received a salary, that 650 former workers who file lawsuits against the same car factory, that same car factory owes 13m euros to public undertakings and state institutions, that this same car factory, unfortunately, owess the "Serbian Railways" 295 wagons that are nowhere, and that 295 wagons are about 435 million dinars of funds from the Republic of Serbia. Shouldn't someone be responsible for that? Can't they just match the car factory workers? This particular bill of law, I hope it finally gets the fox on the right track. We'll finish the privatisation, and I'm sure these car factories, maybe not in this form and not in this way, but those segments of the factory that are working now, like Livnica, will survive. Everything that he does and works, he will survive. I'll also mention at the end of my presentation of another former giant. Here is Magnochrom. I am pleased to say that Magnochrom has been mentioned as a company that has been given by the Privatisation Agency one of the best estimates of assets, which is about 10m euros. For Magnochrom there are strategic partners, Poles and Greeks, and I am sure, if not in the first round, perhaps because of the value of the property, I am sure that in the second round, and before 31 October, the Magnohrom industry meets the strategic partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28898	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28899	I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality of Svrljig, located next to Nis, and I will talk about the draft law on changes and additions to the Law on Privatisation. During the application of the Privatisation Act, certain shortcomings needed to be addressed urgently, as it is very important for companies in the process, as well as for their workers, to have the process completed successfully. No company has been privatised in the last six years, while thousands of enterprises have been privatised in earlier years. This is a signal that something needs to be changed, and it is preventive to protect companies in the sale process, as protection from forced collection expires on May 31st and many companies could be hit by creditors. Thus, the proposed deadline for privatisation shifts for 31 December 2015, but for companies the government has declared to be of strategic importance, as well as for companies from Kosovo and Metohija, this deadline is not valid. This is justified because it is large enterprises that play an important role in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we must do everything in our power and, firstly, amend the provisions of the existing privatisation law, create basic preconditions for the successful privatisation of all enterprises, but still with an emphasis on enterprises of strategic importance, as well as companies from Kosovo and Metohija or enterprises that primarily operate there or are property in Kosovo. They are particularly exposed to various pressures, as well as illegal privatisation by the Kosovo Privatisation Agency. The first change in this goal is that the privatisation entity must make a list and assess the fair market value of the total assets and liabilities on 31 December of the last financial year, not in 2013, as so far as it has been, which is a good proposal, because this data is to be the most stable in condition... In the sales documentation, there will be no bloated, unrealistic values that deter potential customers and strategic partners. The next major change consists of delaying forced enforcement and forced collection against privatisation entities by 31 October 2015 at the latest, and for companies of strategic importance, Kosovo's postponement until the end of one year until the date of entry into force of this law, meaning by mid-2016. The delay in the time limit for forced payment and for forced enforcement extends the protection of these companies, and this is the most significant amendment to this bill. This creates an opportunity to try for the next five months to maintain these companies and preserve all jobs in companies, prevents all companies from going into bankruptcy, saving jobs and facilitating social peace. This is specifically about 54 companies for which sales have been announced, and it is certain that it is very dangerous to endanger the existence of 27 000 workers and their families, as well as to remain without 54 companies, where 17 of them are of strategic importance with 21,517 employees and 37 other companies with a total of 5,857 employees. This law is passed in order to successfully resolve the fate of privatisation entities, which are subject to conditions for sale, because if there were forced executions, sales and survival, they would be endangered and disabled. Surely it is important to save FAP, Galenika, Education, metal industry companies, but it is important to save both companies in Southeast Serbia and businesses, we said, "Gallenika"... Galenika is very important, as Minister Sertic said earlier. For us, from my municipality of Svrljig, it is very important "Gallenika", because it formed a company in Svrlig in 2000, called "Herbogal". I expect that after the "Gallenice" recovery, there will be an opportunity to solve the problem of "Herbogal". One more thing that is important for our companies located in southeastern Serbia, Nis, the machinery industry, the electronic industry, this bill and the adoption will give us the opportunity to improve a lot of things, to determine much better privatisations than it has ever been, and thus we will have the opportunity to step up economic activity in Nisavska County and Southeastern Serbia. I always put an emphasis on the Srlig municipality where I come from, but for me and my Srljižana Nis is important, because by starting Nis, we have a great chance of starting all of Serbia. For us agricultural producers, I am a representative of the United Peasant Party, it is very important on May 25th, not because it was the Day of Youth in the last century, but because today it is German and in my municipality it is not agriculture. I mentioned earlier on May 25th, Youth Day, I really have confidence in our government, in our prime minister, in our economy minister, because I am sure that by passing this law we will help employ young people and therefore I will vote in favour of this bill as an MP for the United Peasant Party at the SNS Club and I am sure that this law will help solve employment problems throughout Serbia, and I am putting an accent on Nis and Southeastern Serbia and my municipality of Svrlig.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28900	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vesna Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28901	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of Economy, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is a system of standardisation in the Republic of Serbia that has been regulated by the 2009 Standardisation Act. However, given that the European rules in this area changed in 2013, it was necessary to harmonise the provisions of the current law with these amendments, which is a necessary condition for the European integration of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the following objectives are achieved through the proposed amendments and additions to the Standardisation Act. The harmonisation of domestic rules with the European Parliament regulation creates conditions for the Institute to carry out additional tasks in order to establish a sustainable and stable source of funding, which is one of the conditions for full membership in European standardisation organisations, i.e. the Institute would also deal with certification operations. It would be more precise to determine what standards and related documents are used as the basis for adopting Serbian standards and related documents, and in what cases. Saving budget funds, as changes and additions to the law are lifted by the institute's obligation to publish solutions on the adoption and abolition of Serbian standards in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. In addition to saving budgets, users are facilitated by getting better in the standardisation system, which is of particular importance for small and medium-sized enterprises with a small number of employees with limited administrative and professional capacity. Therefore, the proposed amendments achieve better transparency of information on the applicable standards, as the publication of a decision on the making of standards in the report and on the Institute’s website allows users to find all information on the standards made at no extra cost. These changes and additions also bring full compliance with the practice of the European Commission and European national standardisation bodies. Finally, as counterpart Aleksandra Tomic, as an authorised SNS promoter, said well today – these changes and additions will give our domestic products international certification, which would allow them to be competitors on the international market. In the voting day, I will support the proposed changes and additions, and I am sure that will be done by all SNS colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28902	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected guests from the Ministry of Industry, the adoption of the Privatisation Act, which came into force on 13 August 2014, has largely corrected the shortcomings of the previous law and solved a number of problems that have arisen in practice. However, the law was a major step forward in regulating the privatisation process, and thus the application suggested that certain problems existed in the application of a number of provisions. The government of the Republic of Serbia, given the privatisation process so far, could not accept the maintenance of the existing status quo, so there was, as the most logical solution, the adoption of laws on changes and additions to the Privatisation Act. The essence of this law in amending and supplementing the Privatisation Act is that the upcoming strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, as well as the economic operators of KIM, are excluded from the existing privatisation deadline. In order to facilitate the privatisation process as well as to establish the real situation of assets, liabilities and capital in enterprises and to establish their actual market value. The law stipulates the obligation to privatise social capital entities, i.e. that the social capital of privatisation entities must be privatised by 31 December 2015. With this deadline, there would be problems in realising privatisation for a large number of enterprises, not losing sight of a certain number of enterprises that have strategic significance for the Republic of Serbia and which employ around 25,000 workers. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the Law propose an exception to the prescribed time limit for the privatisation of social capital, but only in terms of the entities designated by the Government Act as entities of strategic importance privatisation. The exemption from the prescribed deadline shall also apply to privatisation entities whose head office is located, or the bulk of the activity is carried out in the territory of AP KIM or the property is located also in the territory of AP KIM. It must be borne in mind when it comes to these privatization entities, the fact that it is about entities exposed to the uptake of assets and the illegal privatisation conducted by the Kosovo Privatisation Agency. Those entities are in a more unfavourable position compared to other economic operators in the Republic of Serbia, as they are faced with a lack of market, administrative barriers and the fact that bank loans are not available to them. This requires additional protection as a form of positive discrimination. Given that a total of 526 privatisation companies are currently in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency, which are subject to privatisation, it is definitely clear that the proposed amendments to the law do not want to fully postpone the privatisation deadline and that it continues to want to create a clean and legal order and legal environment in the Republic of Serbia. This, of course, also represents the respect of the agreed arrangement with the IMF where it was defined to end the doping and assistance of any kind of state-owned enterprise. As regards those provisions, additions to the law, two cases are proposed which would temporarily be delayed to apply the possibility of provisional payment of the claim until 31 October 2015. The delay in the period for protection against forced collection, which represents the fundamental changes to the proposed law, opens up the possibility of trying to revitalise these facilities and to preserve jobs, and prevents the bankruptcy of these companies and the loss of jobs for a large number of citizens, which would lead to major earthquakes in the Republic of Serbia, both on both social and economic terms, in the light of the adoption of this law. The proposed changes and additions also aim to bring the state of property, liabilities and capital into line with the fact that they are in conformity with the sales documentation and to minimise the extent possible. In this respect, due to the expiry of time, it is indicated that the need to update the assessment of the value to prescribe the duty of privatisation entities to carry out a list and estimate the fair market value of the total assets and liabilities and capital with a condition on 31 December of the last financial year, i.e. to provide a new list and assessment with a condition on 31 December of the last business year, both from the census and the assessment of the past 12 months, and to prepare the privatisation documentation with a condition on the day of the census and the assessment. In line with the above changes, the write-off of debt as a measure to prepare and disbursement the privatisation entity's obligations, which obliges the public creditors to write off the debt with effect on 31 December of the last financial year, is intended to align the date on which the write-off is made with the date of the write-off and the assessment. A very important provision at the end, which changes, is a provision that prescribes responsibility. The extension of liability for the criminal offence and to the responsible person in the privatisation entity who provides false or incomplete information on the property, the liabilities of the privatisation entity, or the incorrect or incomplete documentation in the asset sale programme, shall aim at establishing the true, real value of the privatisation entity. Such changes allow the creation of a legal framework to bring the property, liabilities and capital situation into line with the fact that the derogations are to the minimum extent possible. It must not be disturbed by the fact that although the law applies primarily to privatisation entities, the adoption of proposed amendments to the law will create conditions for ending privatisation, which will positively reflect on all actors in the privatisation process, employees, creditors, small shareholders, and above all on the privatisation subject. Addressing the status of the privatisation entity will contribute positively to the general state of business of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, on the basis of all of this, of course the MPs of the SNS Group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28904	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Jellysavet the Beacon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28905	I thank the chairman, Honorable Ministry representatives, respected representatives of the Privatisation Agency, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are talking today about the draft law on changes and additions to the Privatisation Act, but also about those privatisations that took place in Serbia, starting in 2000. We are all talking about this today as one of our biggest national problems that has affected the country's economic downturn and in many cities has led to a complete end to the economy and huge poverty of citizens. One of those cities is also the city from which I come, which is the King's. It is one of the few cities in Serbia, if not the only one who has borne the greatest burden, so-called. transitions. The king was the center of industrial development, but in a very short time he experienced his complete sunflower. In the period from 2003-2008, it was sold to auction sales, through tenders of more than 25 of the most successful royal companies. Over 20,000 people are out of work and out of adequate severance. About suspicious privatisations from that time and not talking. Unlike all previous governments, this government wants to save what can be clearly seen from the proposal three of the most important changes through amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. The first amendment refers to the fact that the companies for which tenders for the privatisation and selection of a strategic investor have already been announced, the enforcement procedures and the mandatory charges are postponed until the conclusion of the strategic partnership agreement or the declaration of the procedure to be unsuccessful and no later than 21 October 2015. That way they get protection from forced collection, trustees and get a chance to make a successful privatisation. Unfortunately, there are also companies that are over-indebted, which, due to debt and many other administrative problems, will hardly find a buyer, as most potential customers are only interested in buying those parts of enterprises that are not mortgaged. The royal car factory, which was a symbol of Yugoslav car construction, was also over-indebted. The chronology of its collapse is not much different from other factories in Serbia, and it began in 2006 as a colleague pointed out, when a Ukrainian company from Donjek bought a car factory. Privatisation was cancelled and then came the second, third and after a decade of camping and poor privatisations, the number of employees from 5,000 fell to 730 due today to more than 30 salaries. 645 car factory disputes have been launched, which is the former, which are current workers. A mortgage was established on property by the tax administration and the Vojvodjanska Banka, with commitments to state creditors amounting to about 13m euros. The account block has been going on for more than eight billion, 144m years already, and based on the estimated value of the 2013 capital, the loss of the company's capital is about 6.5m euros. The car factory workers are aware of this and want this agony to end as soon as possible. Of the 730 employees, as many as 426 workers applied for the social programme. A similar situation is with the royal Autotransport, where a surprisingly large number of employees have applied for a social programme. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown that it is responsible for the fate of all, so it has prepared both a mandatory transition fund and through resolving the company's status it will also protect workers' interests. Another important change is that the Government can decide for one smaller number of enterprises that are of strategic importance to postpone the time limit for protection against forced collection by one year from the date of entry into force of these amendments and the addition of the laws, creating a possibility to preserve jobs for more than 22,000 employees. The third major change is that the privatisation entity is obliged to carry out a list and assess the fair market value of assets, liabilities and capital on 31 December of the last financial year. What is important to point out is that the assessment is carried out by licensed assessors, and the aim is to bring the asset, liabilities and capital situation in the sales documentation into line with the real situation and to make the derogations minimal. Finally, as I come from the King and the Kingdom has yet another unresolved status of the natural spa of the Mataruska and Bogotovačka Banje, which has been recognizable for many years by health tourism and treatment of sterileness, I am pleased that the director of the Privatisation Agency and the minister pointed out that the spas will be under special regime and that the Ministry will make a strategy for their privatisation by the end of the year, as well as that there are interested in the Matharuška Banja. I hope that health tourism will develop again through privatisation at the Mataruska Bani. With this government and Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, I'm sure that's what's gonna happen. In the end, the Serbian Progressive Party will vote in favour of all amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28906	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word. Here you go, Mr. Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28907	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, is in front of us today on the agenda of the amendment and addition of the Law on Privatisation and the Standardisation Act. I will stay for a little while at the amendments to the Privatisation Act, which aims to resolve the long privatisation process that has been going on for almost two decades. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted responsibility for solving the fate of about 500 companies. Of these 500 companies, few of them can hold a competition. The question has been raised before this government - how do we solve the problem of these 500 companies and how do we end this economic utopia? We do not have a sustainable economy because companies do not pay their obligations to suppliers, to the state and to workers. The government has decided through these amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act to consolidate and recover companies that will later be able to survive their work. In the previous period, it was a practice to degrade and destroy something, to make it easier to sell. The idea of this government is that the bad situation in economic operators is improved, that individual companies are brought back to life and as such to be interesting to potential investors. The amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act define, among other things, the conditional write-off of debt, the census and the assessment of fair market value, the preparation of the privatisation documentation and, of course, Article 2 defining certain privatisation entities of strategic importance. The strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia has privatisation entities that meet the following criteria: a positive impact on the level of employment in the region; a positive impact on the business of other operators; market participation and market potential; sustainability of ongoing production and business activity; a product and services of importance. A period of one year represents a period in which there will be far fewer creditors. We will have a liquid economy, the departure of workers, that is, the reduction of the number of workers through retirement leave, and the resolution of excess employees by severance. I want as a positive example of all this to mention "Jumko" from Vranja, because we had the chance to strike there and that the workers were on the roadblock. I must say that the new management and new supervisory board in this company, in co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and with the relevant ministries, managed to get the workers on strike to return to the factory halls and organise the production process. Of course, workers working at Jumku are also commendable for realizing that the proposal for management and the Serbian government is leading them into the process of healing and recovering the company. Today, in Jumko for a total of 1860 workers, energy costs were reduced and part of the electricity debt was paid. On the other hand, there has been an increase in the average wage, from about 13,000 to 18,500 as it is today, with a trend of further growth. Payments shall be paid from their own sources by the realization of contractual obligations. Providers regularly settle their obligations. The current rate of execution increased from 40% to 70%, with a trend of further growth. The realisation of the social programme has also started. Jumko Vranje is a strategically important positioned firm in the far south of Serbia and has a mineral water factory Bivoda in Bujanovac, which employs 103 workers, which, with a certain investment in the line for filling glass packaging and rationalising costs, could increase the number of employees. For Bujanovac, as a municipality belonging to undeveloped municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, it is of great importance that hundreds of jobs are as important as we have in "Bivod". I also want to mention the Jumkov factory in Bosilegrad, which started working after a year and a half. Mr. Minister, you also mentioned "Simpo" at the beginning of your presentation. These amendments and additions to the law do not touch "Simpo", but I would just like to say, since we have "Simpo" factories almost in the entire Pcinski district, that after 186 days of the Simpo blockade, it started to work. The blockade was somewhere around a billion and a half dinars. It's a good thing the trustees made an agreement and the company's accounts were unblocked. Also, I have to say that with income management, with local self-government, with the PIO Fund, a conversion of the Simpa liabilities into state capital has been made. A plan and consolidation programme were also made, and above all the concept of production for warehouses, financing of expensive bank loans was abandoned, they turned to the new organisation of sales, product range and product price. They settled part of their obligations on different grounds, and a continuous production process has been organised since January 2015. A programme for the rescue of extra employees through the social programme has also been implemented. Here I will commend the Simpa management, which, in co-operation with the Serbian government, has managed to bring such a difficult situation into some normal state and which create a real basis for the full economic and financial consolidation that implies that Simpo becomes a marketable system with positive business. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to support the amendments to the Law on Privatisation and Standardization in the Day of Voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28908	Thank you, Mr. Mitrovica. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28909	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have had the opportunity to hear today many arguments about and against these amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act that we adopted last year, but the necessity of life has forced us to meet today in this House and to make certain amendments and additions to this law. The changes are small, they're not in quantity, they're in quality. Therefore, the idea of the legislator, i.e. these amendments and additions to the provisions of the law, is that trustees cannot, for a shorter period, collect their claims and thus prevent the process of restructuring and the process of selling capital of the company that stood for so many years, the companies that served earlier for votes, used to sign, served to fill the bus, served to take workers to various rallys of various political options, and in particular it was in the period from 2000 to 2012. I remember in 2012, that "Jumka" workers were two by two, as students going to DS rooms and signing a bid for local elections. I remember they were filling the hall, I remember they went to the rallys, they did everything else, but they didn't do what they did, but the most important thing was at that point, it doesn't matter what the machines do, it doesn't matter what the debts accumulate, it's important that they win. The paradigm of the government's work and this ministry is just "Jumko". I'll say that last year at the time of the election, there was a severe strike in Jumka, a suspension of work completely, conflicts, injuries, police interventions, we tried to calm people down. But there was one hopelessness, one I would say even auto-destruction among these people. They lost all hope, they didn't want to work, they did themselves harm. There was no concept that there was no one who enjoyed authority to convince them that it would be better both in the election campaign and in the visit to Jumko was then the first Deputy Prime Minister, and today the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, I was in the delegation, Mr. Babic attended, and we spoke most openly with these workers. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic then told the truth, that it would be difficult, to be expected both by sweat and tears and heavy measures, that they must be prepared for the social programme and decide what they want with their company, whether they love it or not. The then director was barely saved, even he went on vacation and never returned to the firm again. Since the concept of the Ministry of Industry was adopted and the idea that "Jumko" must be put on its feet, from that moment on, I would say, salvation and light can be seen at the end of the tunnel. I am very grateful to you here, given that I am the only MP from Vranj, and I represent all the citizens of Vranj, although I was on the list, which I am proud of, SNS, but I really want to thank you for all the measures you have taken and what you have said that the perspective of Jumko has and definitely has. I know they've completed 12m-euro deals, and that's one sure future. They work for the Army, they work for the police, they work for the mail, they work for Telecom, and since the arrival of the new management that I am, of course, satisfied with, and you are someone who visited Jumko and who has been very concerned about the fate of those measures that you have predicted and which you have taken and you have shown that this form has a perspective. Now there is only one request with me about finding someone who will really privatize that company, who will really buy a brand called Jumko, which is the trademark of Vranja back 50 years, that the company continues to work without selling halls, not selling administrative buildings, not selling machines. And it's good that the trustee can't get in, and it's good, on their side it's not, it's hard and it's bad that they can't collect their claims from "Junk," but that way you're giving fresh air, you're giving that firm the opportunity to get the right privateer to continue production. You have in law an expression that says – strategic importance and strategic importance is related to "Jumko", and I will tell you why, and that is one example that is life. It is the Yumka plant in Poljanica, which was once a municipality, which is now a rural centre of 22 villages. There's this drive. He started working again, restored production, and for the first time, after 22 years, a child was born in one of the 22 villages in Poljanica. The mother is employed in "Jumka", married, started a family, gave birth to that baby, and that only shows what it means – strategic interest. The strategic interest is that people stay there, that those nursing households that were and were closing houses, now there's some hope and some perspective again. Also, I know that Simpo has received from the state five million euros, so he can operate, I know that they have stepped on his feet, I know that the current management is very agile and very active in concluding the contract. I think they've closed some contracts, I suppose, with the help of the Ministry of Economy with Montenegrin hotels to equip. Simpo is also a trademark of Vranja. Simpo is something we are all proud of and we will be glad that this strategic partner we are looking for and who will be, I am confident and found. I know it was a conversation with the Russian Business Company. I don't know how far it got. I know that there are several foreign partners who are very interested in buying Simpa, and if you collect the number of employees of these two companies, that's about 5,000 people. There are about 82,000 residents in Vranj, so you see, if these two companies stopped working, what would be left of Vranj. Several companies, of course, will go bankrupt, I mean the Welder and several companies from Vranjska Banja, but I am sorry, someone who is not capable, who has no strength, and by your assessment, apparently by the criteria could not enter the list of those who can be helped. There's no one to save. I'm sorry, he's gonna lose his job, but I'm also sure and I see that you've prepared a fund for the social programme and many of these workers are going to take a social programme, open up a perspective, open a job for themselves. Many of them are honest workers, people who have worked in the wood industry for years, who worked behind a machine and know how to make their income. I expect you'll continue to do this. I'm sure both under the stick of the Prime Minister and by what you showed today and agility and energy. You assured me as a MP that in the day of voting this law should be supported and that these companies, which can be saved and continued to work on the well-being of all Serbian citizens, and of course Vranja, because I am hence and somehow local patriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28910	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go, Dr. Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28911	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected citizens, the Law on Privatisation is one of the most important laws in view of the year that preceded the coming to the power of the SNS and these Governments and the Law on Privatisation adopted last year was one of the last attempts to repair something that has been systematically destroyed by criminal and wrong privatisations for years. What could have been done was done through this bill on the amendment of the Privatisation Act. We want to protect 17 companies that are naturally owned by the state, the property of our citizens, and therefore we want to protect what is ours. What has been systematically destroyed is not easy to protect and we are in fact choosing the best possible solution in one choice of bad solutions. It is mainly companies that have been sold several times, which have lost their value in the meantime and which are simply more of a problem at the moment than a positive business, or a positive way, but the state is there, the government is there, the Ministry of Economy that I must really commend from my own personal corner, because I have excellent co-operation with them as well as all my fellow MPs. We finally have a ministry where we can all go in and open the door wide. I come from the town of Sapca where privatisation really took a big swing, left a very negative trail and simply destroyed jobs, starting with companies that were part of Zorka Holding, via "Sava", "Jele", "7 July", "Inga". The list is really incredibly long, but I proudly say that I come from the city of Šapca where citizens, and despite the fact that there are 18,000 people on the list of the National Employment Service, have succeeded precisely because of their quality and the fact that they live with valuable, capable and honest people, have managed to survive these difficult times, and even though, in a very short time, the citizens of Šapca have lost their businesses, without their jobs, they have lost their jobs, they have lost their future. This is exactly the opportunity to call my colleague, I'm sorry he's not here and it should be a serious matter, Dusan Petrovic, to begin to apologize to everyone, especially the citizens of Zapca, and then to everyone else for what was done through this privatisation process. This is not only true for him, of course, but also for Boris Tadic and all those who allowed and who participated in the privatisation chain. It is impossible to say on this day – yes, it was, but it has nothing to do with us. We're starting another party now and what it was just doesn't work. Neither Dusan Petrovic nor Boris Tadic nor the others who have now founded the parties were coffee cooks and drivers in the ministries, but they were bearers of politics and bearers of exactly this wrong privatisation and according to this, each morning they should apologize to their citizens for what was done and in the way it was done and not to start other parties and to say – go after us in the new future. What is and how is it, not only in Šapec but in all of Serbia, the citizens know very well, and they voted accordingly, and according to that, the number of MPs in this National Assembly. Since I come from Telecom, I just want someone to mention the privatisation advisor, to repeat what the minister has already said, and that is that the Privatization Advisor has been selected in a public competition, as the best bidder, and simply nowhere in the tender documentation has anyone asked for, nor has anyone answered who is employed in the company that received the tender. I am responsibly saying that this was done in accordance with the law and in the best interest, both in Telekom Srbija and in the public and in the state of Serbia. Finally, I just want to call once again on those who think well of this Serbia, to of course support these bill proposals, because these are proposals that try to save what is to be saved can and accordingly, all those who think well of their citizens, their country, will vote in favour of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28912	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. Mr. Bradiche, on what grounds? (Blagoje Bradic, from the post: The party president is mentioned... () Yes, but Mr Bradic, you are neither the head of the parliamentary group, nor the deputy, nor the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. According to the Rules of Procedure, you should know that, Mr. Bradich. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28913	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Becic, Minister Sertic and Honored Guests. Minister Sertic, here is a moment ago, had the opportunity to hear several sleepers of the SNS MPs, such as the lullaby spoken by Mr Birmancevic, Mr Nikolic and the other gentlemen, but I will now give you five notes concerning your presentation here in the Assembly this morning, as well as the contents of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Privatisation, gentlemen. Mr. Sertic, it takes a little wake-up to happen in this National Assembly after reading these essay assignments. You told Mr. Sertic this morning that you got hot potatoes when you became minister. It seemed to me like you wanted to complain to the MPs – see how difficult it was for me, I got... Dear gentlemen, the job of the minister, especially when he comes to the National Assembly, is not to complain to us here, but to tell us what the result is behind it, his ministry and his government as a whole. Ethics of responsibility is one of the key principles in politics. That principle suggests. If there are results, let's all say - bravo. If there's no result in moving from that place, not Mr. Sertic, the story of hot potatoes and the like. The result is appreciated. Second thing, you said this morning that I also checked in the stenogram, that you didn't know what you were getting into when you became a minister. Look, that's what you told us before you became Minister of Business, you were president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Then I wonder, gentlemen, what is going on in that Chamber of Commerce when the President of the Chamber of Commerce, when he ceases to be the President of the Chamber of Commerce, becomes a minister and then he tells us – so I didn't know what I was getting into. Well, imagine, gentlemen, that, for example, Mr Sertic says today -- here, I have faced criticism of the opposition, no results, I am resigning. The vacancy and the place is registered by the current Chamber of Commerce President, Mr. Marko Chadj. And Chadej came here, for example, and said, "I don't know what I'm going into." So how would you react, Mr. Sertic? The third thing you said this morning, you say -- there is no man who would have invested something in Serbia, even if a dinar had not met with that man. Well, Mr. Sertic, that's exactly the kind of policy approach over the economy. The Prime Minister, gentlemen, should not be a "pater familias", so it is not our landlordship, that we need one boss to do everything on our behalf, to talk to everyone about every dinar respected gentlemen. That way we're far from a functioning market economy, Mr. Sertic. The fourth note...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28914	Just come back on the subject, Mr. Pavicevic, just talk a little bit about the law, don't just talk about the notes and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28915	Well, that's Mr. Sertic's words. If he wasn't talking about the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28916	Don't just interpret Mr. Sertic's speech, talk about the subject, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28917	Here's to the subject. This concerns the amendment and addition of the Privatisation Act, which is on the agenda today. I see that Mr. Sertic made notes, and he had no objection, Mr. Becic, I expect now and the answer and comment from Mr. Sertic on these remarks. Fourth note, and now you've taken 20 seconds from me again. The fourth note, gentlemen, I now wonder, gentlemen, what a private citizen, for example, or a private businessman, or an investor, thinks that, when faced with that idea, he might invest that dinar, and then look at it for example. The history of the Privatisation Act I've been about for the last year, Mr Sertic, so notices that on 12 May of last year, we changed the old Privatisation Act just, gentlemen, about these things we're talking about today dominantly. Well, then, in August 2014, it's a brand-new law. Mr. Sertic says - that's it. And now, in May 2015, exactly one year after we first discussed the amendments to the Privatisation Act, we are changing again. This new Privatisation Act, Mr. Sertice, so here you are, picture yourself as a businessman. Would you consider that picture ideal for investment? I think, Mr. Sertice, you wouldn't. Be realistic when you comment on this. The fifth thing, gentlemen, I ask you, the most important thing that we need to do here, if we want a market economy, a functioning market economy, please, Mr. Becic, is to extend those 20 seconds to me because you took it away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28918	We can't do it that way, Mr. Pavicevic, please. Lock it down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28919	We must not have private initiatives, that private investments, are constantly heard by Mr Babic, Birmancevic, the other SNS gentleman, identify with some suspicious actions. We here must once say private property is sacred, private initiative is... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28920	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. It's been 20 seconds, Mr. Pavicevic. Please, the word is Minister Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28921	It's impossible not to answer the questions you asked me. I'm happy to explain to you what's in these five remarks of yours. My only question is, were you present this morning when I spoke? Or did you take it out of a stenogram? You were, I'd say you took most of the stenograms, because you pulled everything out of context. Like this, first thing, you said I was complaining. No, I didn't complain, I just said that at consultations with MP groups I heard one question and that the answer to that was just to support that I wasn't complaining, but that we had made a very clear political decision, very brave, honest and looking forward to the future. That's the first thing. The second thing, yes, I honestly told the citizens of Serbia that for the privatisation process, for the problem of the work itself of the Privatisation Agency and for the depth of the problem we faced the moment we decided to implement a privatisation that had not been done in the past 15 years in the most part, without talking about the last six years, I had no information. I was not in the previous term director of the Privatisation Agency, but president of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, and most of my work I dealt with healthy companies, support for the SMEs sector, and international affairs just to ensure that as many investments as possible and to connect our companies that work and function with the healthy world. As for, too, torn from the context of your remark that anyone who brings one euro receives Prime Minister Vukic, I think first of all it is a major matter of one prime minister wanting to meet with businessmen, that he wants to talk to the economy, with investors, and I was speaking in the context of associations. So, from NAED, from the American Chamber of Commerce, from the German delegation of business in Serbia, from the Italian Chamber of Commerce, not to mention our Chamber of Commerce, the advice of foreign investors. All these associations are actively involved, not only in law-making, NAED has got the whole business running, among other things, operations related to the grey economy in Serbia. You've never had a chance to hear that before. I don't know any association that so far, business association, I'm talking exclusively about an economy that's been involved in serious matters. This is a European and world standard. Who do we make the laws to if not the businessmen? Well, businessmen should be part of those processes and create it. In this context, I have spoken, and in every way possible, I have praised the role of prime minister because so far we have not had it in such a way or I do not remember. I'm taking it for myself so I can make a mistake. Your question is, how will strangers look at the change of laws? Very kind. Very kindly Because, above all, foreigners ask different consulting houses here, serious consulting houses in which the business environment in Serbia improves, whether it is in stagnation or not, God forbid it goes back. There is no consulting house today and no company from the world or Europe that has come without supporting the Serbian government's measures on the way to recovery and work. I would like you to bring me anywhere in my office or here in the Assembly or at some public meeting to hear someone who has done a job in Serbia, someone who is economically related to us, and does not support the measures we have taken. In the end, your fifth question. I absolutely agree with you that all the people who, which I have commented on when it came to the question of your MPs or your colleagues, the issue of privatising Avala's film and everything, the one who pays taxes to the state, the one who settles his obligations should also be rich and if he is successful, if he fulfils his obligations both to the workers and to the state. There is no limit we will not support in this sense that people who have not sinned against the law, who respect all their obligations to society in no way, will never be criticised. To me as Minister of Economy, it is my greatest success if we have many more wealthy people who will be able to expand their wealth here, buy things, objects, invest in their companies, spread companies and treat them with respect. It's something the market economy brings. You also see cases where some people who have made huge money because of the wrong decision at a certain point lose all their capital, but that's a market that we can't influence. So, SNS, the Ministry of Business, and this government supports people who are capable of making money. We support especially young people who need to get in as much as possible and do everything from day to day stronger steps to support young people and all those who want to move from another sector to business, whether from public enterprises or from other state-owned enterprises, to move and to stand alone to create their own private companies. It will have all the support and attention of the government in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28922	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Pavicevic, you have no option... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: How come I don't have one? ) Because you have failedly invited individual MPs, no one has given you the opportunity to reply, and Mr Sertic has only answered your questions. Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: But I think it is okay for me to continue.) No, you can't go on. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Wednesday we will. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28923	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the JS parliamentary group will support both these amendments and the additions of the law. That's what the deputy head of our parliamentary group, Mr. Petar Petrovic, who may have left it to me, at least, the impression of the day when the colleagues before me were talking. That inspiration of yours in today's exposure with so many emotions, as he said, definitely gives you some confidence that you're ready to bring one job to an end. I didn't realize either that you were complaining when you mentioned that hot potato, but that you simply wanted to paint what the problem was. So, realistically, if we look at the situation, aside from all the other problems we have in the country, I think that Minister Cory Udovicki and you definitely have the biggest tasks ahead of you right now, and as far as I can see, the IMF is right now interested in the two topics in the next period of what's going to happen. You've brought up a lot of facts today and you've said a lot of things to my colleagues, and it's hard to find today something that isn't mentioned here, but the fact that stands after all these years of unsuccessful privatisations, double privatisations and all the problems we've talked about today are the fates of workers who have lost their jobs in the same companies. That's a lot of people. Also, a large number of people are in these 500 companies waiting for a similar fate, I believe it will be better than those who went through privatisations last decade because at least personally, I could say on the fingers of one hand what successful privatisations were done during that period. What people ask of us MPs, at least I have that kind of experience in the field when I meet them, that they seek someone's responsibility, not some sort of revenge, but some personal justice and fate that has hit them neither guilty nor debtors just because they did their job. We have representatives of the Privatisation Agency here today. I'm not going to be critical of them today because they're just new people who are almost in office, as far as I'm aware of two or three months ago. Also, you've been there for seven months, so we can't be looking for the culprit in you, and the evidence that you're doing is exactly these changes that are in front of us today and what you've been saying today, but that's exactly what's going on – what's going on with the capital guardians? What happens to the management of these companies and those 502 companies we're talking about, 17 today, and everyone else in that package? You said today that you were in Smederev in Livnica with a change of management, i.e. The entire government, by changing management, has created a business climate where they are now seen for the first time positive results. Do you recognize any other companies, this is my question, do you recognize any other enterprises in Serbia that in the next few months until the end of this law, until that, let's say the last period of privatisation can experience the same fate as Jellyzar? I agree that there are also small companies, that there are companies that can definitely not even run the best management of the world, but I come from Vrnjaka Banja, there is the largest catering company in the old Yugoslavia, HTP "Fontana". We have a chance, they're still working and now they're fighting. You said today at one point that a problem arises and an estimate of the value of the capital of these companies to be sold. Even three or four days ago when we had a meeting individually with parliamentary groups, you said that you had situations that one agency would assess companies at three or four million, and of the same company another agency, which was again certified for such a job, to estimate the value of 10 million dinars, 10 million euros. Definitely that on the market and that creates some interference, and then those people who are interested in such investments are in one unfortunate situation. Also, I'd like you to confirm once again, you said today, and I wrote it down here, to quote that you won't allow the tycoons to buy property with the intention of dispossessing it and reselling it and that the basic actions that these companies have been neglecting. Another proposal to you, I repeat again, specifically for "Fontana", I am interested, without wanting to present it as a political point for one environment from which I come rather than as a situation that may be difficult to correct before the end, "Fontana" is divided into four continents, into four groups of objects. We were dominant in this congress tourism precisely because we have great capacities. If we divide such a company into wholes, we no longer have the opportunity to offer capacity to large seminars, large trade unions, so please consider it. For now, as far as I know there are no interested, but if anyone answers, it's a problem for him, he needs to meet. The initial price of these continents, that's what you said, it's definitely what I saw as a problem is exactly the high price. One whole of four costs like once an entire company in one complex. I repeat, the IMF is expecting results, monitoring what's going on. I believe you'll do your best to see these results. What is today, Mr Petar Petrovic, my colleague from the Single Serbia parliamentary group, also said that they do not need all the local environments, municipalities and cities to wait for you to offer solutions, to bring investors or to let investors know, rather than simply to put a little effort into bringing them in and making it easier for you and all of us together. Once again, I believe you will endure in this. You will have the support of the Single Serbia parliamentary group and I say once again, the parliamentary group will vote for both amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28924	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28925	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, honored guests, fellow MPs, when ten months ago the Law on Privatisation and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Serbia was put on the agenda of an emergency procedure, was presented as an extremely reform law, after which Serbia's economy will be reborn. Now it turns out that such an emergency wasn't necessary. There is an impression that the Privatisation Act was adopted prematurely, in order for the government to take credit for the IMF and the World Bank. It is obvious that the implementation of the privatisation process under the new so-called reform law, that no one had the will to implement the law. Many laws have been obstructed by personal interests, some out of ignorance. It is also guilty of the slow bureaucracy of the Privatisation Agency, the Ministry of Economy, the Agency for Restitution, the Geodesy Institute and others. What was the government doing at the time? Was she even interested in the privatisation process, in the problems that arised in the application of the law? It was said in September in Majdanpek, right after the law was passed, about privatisation. At a pre-election rally ahead of the local elections in Majdanpek, the prime minister pledged that Zlatara Majdanpek, as part of the strategic plan, would have to be fully raised, he said. "We will make every effort to raise the "Golder" to work again, as it used to be. This city will be made of copper, gold and silver," the prime minister said. I must confess to a very inspired promise, almost epic. I ask you, will this promise of the Prime Minister be fulfilled or, perhaps, as it is so far, will everything remain in an empty pre-election story? I see on the Privatisation Agency website that in the presentation of attractive companies “Zlatara” and “Industry for Processing” are Donji Milanovac. Can you tell me, of course, to the citizens of Majdanpek, whether there are interested customers and whether there are problems in the privatisation process of the Zlatare? What about the other over 500 companies that should be privatized by the end of the year? It is almost certain that this will not happen, says Mr. Shubara, director of the Privatisation Agency. Who's responsible? Who promised a quick, honest and determined privatisation with the goal of finally getting the economy on its feet? There were promises, however, that every company would be looked at in particular, that strategic partners would be found for some, and there was no longer an announcement of the arrival of strategic partners, without a name, only to heat up the hopes of the unemployed and citizens of Serbia. In a memorandum signed with the IMF, the government pledged to find a solution for the ISK and Petrochemical by 1 April 2015. How far did that go? I know the answer. We've heard him countless times. Negotiations are under way. We're working on it. How many companies have the interest of investors, or customers, since the adoption of the law? Please tell me, what are your prognosis based on interest, how many companies are going to privatize? Do you have more optimism about privatisation than your, I presume, close associate director of Mr. Shubara's agency? From an interview that I had the opportunity to read, the given "Politice", you can only see the chaos, indisputability and obstruction that exists in the privatisation process. The problems he cites are the following: uncorresponded and too short deadlines relative to the start of law enforcement, it is suspected that some companies are overrated to avoid privatising and thus go into bankruptcy, a lack of work at the Privatisation Agency, which is after the adoption of the so-called "Privatisation". The reform law was to collect privatisation documents for all enterprises and make up five documents that also make up a public call. None of this was done until January 2015. Then comes the problems with court disputes and property issues. Then there is the inability to meet obligations and agreements with the IMF and the World Bank that lends severance payments. He's thinking of disrespecting his deadlines. Then there is also an obstruction regarding the end of privatisation by employees of the Privatisation Agency, as well as by the management of many companies. Are these real obstacles to the privatisation process or is this an excuse for the government to overestimate its opportunities in terms of privatisation? Tell me, how does this kind of justification look at the IMF and the World Bank? With citizens, Mr. Minister, there may be empty promises, but with institutions like the World Bank and the IMF I believe not. Why didn't we get a list of 17 companies that were forced to execute and pay for a year? Was the number of employees in them crucial to meeting in the group? Tell me what the total debts of these companies are, of course, if you have that information. You're saying the possibility of revitalizing these companies will save jobs and prevent the loss of a job for a large number of workers. If a law on investment stimulation had been passed in time, which was announced almost a year ago, there might have been conditions for opening new jobs in time, and the uncertainty and fear of people left out of work wouldn't have been this big. I think before the Privatisation Act, this law was to be passed. So, the only thing that's certain about the privatisation process so far is that by the end of this year, 188 companies will be out of work and 5,000 workers will be out of work by then. Tell me, what fate awaits the rest of the employees in such a sloppy privatization process? It is also certain that employees of companies of strategic importance will be protected in the next year, and what happens next? The way privatisation has been conducted so far does not give them confidence either. Whether the government will do its best to properly privatise most of the company, protect employees, we will see by the end of the year. Judging from how this process is currently going, I doubt it. Finally, Mr. Minister, will we see each other again this year in the Assembly with a new draft of amendments, where will you, for example, ask for an extension of the privatisation deadline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28926	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28927	I hope you were present today in the O.R. during my address or explanation why we asked the Assembly to accept these amendments to the Privatisation and Standardisation Act, because you just counted 90% of what I've already given the answer to. I can do it again, and you can have a stenogram, too, so you can read it. It's a matter of your personal relationship. But I can't help but answer your basic question – what wasn't done during this period, because I explained very closely what we found in August of last year, especially September 3rd, when I became minister. I explained in detail how many legal transactions were done, how many jobs were done in companies to put them on their feet so that they could come into the privatisation process and I counted from Galenika, from Jumka, from Simpa, from Petrochemy, from "Gelezara", etc. These are concrete data where you can see in the APR, the company balances that have been done over the last year and a little bit more. On the other hand, I told you that we held hundreds of union meetings with individual businesses, with investors, trying to find an adequate model just to solve the problems we were in. We published 12 documentation, 12 privatisations. Two are already finished and another 20 and something will be published this week. Among those 40 published privatisations will be the company you mentioned - "The Industry of Noble Metals" in Majdanpek with 340 and some employees. So what the Prime Minister has promised, it will be fulfilled, because you will have a chance to see in the next two three days. We also have interested customers for the company, I sincerely hope that this process will end successfully, if customers are interested in the terms of the Privatisation Agency and the Government of Serbia set out that, therefore, according to all the positive legal rules, the process will be brought to an end. I think it's one of the most important things you've ever wanted to hear, and I've given you an answer. What's left is the question. You mentioned the International Monetary Fund, as some supreme government that gives us pucks, if we don't do something. First of all, you should know that the arrangement with the IMF is on a voluntary basis. The International Monetary Fund is not the world's sharer. You can get into an arrangement with them or you don't have to. We have decided to enter, because we need their support in all the reform processes, as well as the support of the World Bank, in order to make the business environment in the country attractive and for investors, not only foreign but domestic, to free the small business sector that works best and works best, to enable our institutions to be, to be, to be, to support the development of the economy and sustainable economic programmes, designed for them. So this same IMF, which you called in that way, and I say that the partner of the Serbian state, gave a positive assessment of the quarter of the commitments we had. So, in March of the month we got the first arrangement, and now after the first quarter we had the first check, you know that it was already in the media, etc., so a completely positive opinion. Is there anything that I'm telling you just because you've apostrophe that something hasn't been done, it's the things of the deal. When we sit and talk about why maybe some deadline isn't done at the given moment, you have an adequate explanation, you sit with living people and you talk, which are economists, which are not politicians, when you talk about the conditions and dynamics of implementing certain obligations, you come to a common conclusion that even if something wasn't done in the time or time that was planned, and it will be done in some other way the effects of the measures that they need to do, I say, close up that some agreed arrangement, then we don't have a problem with them and you saw that we got a full positive assessment. These 17 companies cannot enter the law because the law says otherwise that it must be wide, that it cannot be determined to be quoted individually. The Serbian government will make a decision. Otherwise, these 17 companies, which we will decide on in the first session of the government, after voting here in the assembly and becoming a full-fledged law, owe about 2.5 billion euros. That's a direct piece of information on what you've answered. So over 21,000 employees and orientation debt. With that, you count that only one company has over a billion debts, and that's RTB Bor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28928	The word has been given by the MP Oliver Pauljeskic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28929	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished directors of the Privatisation Agency, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my presentation today will refer to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. Last year, when we passed the Privatisation Act, we had 144 enterprises in restructuring and these companies are in a certain legal way protected from the forced collection of creditors. Of the 144 companies, 40 went bankrupt. Other companies, according to the Privatisation Act, stand out for protection from creditors on May 31st. The government therefore made a decision on privatisation entities of strategic importance. Up to a year, protection from creditors will be extended for 17 of the most important enterprises in restructuring. Among them is "Azotara", "Petrochemija", a public underground coal exploitation company "Resavica, FAP and many other enterprises, i.e. companies that employ around 25,000 workers, and going into bankruptcy of these enterprises and losing a large number of jobs for a large number of citizens lead to major earthquakes in the country on a social and economic plan. The delay in the period for protection against forced collection, up to one year from the date of entry into force of the amendments and addition of the Privatisation Act, opens the possibility of trying to revitalise these entities and preserve jobs. What is very important, the state will provide for those enterprises for which no public call for privatisation is published or published, and not find their buyer, as so far, with a social programme and the possibility for some of these bankruptcy companies to find their new customers and some new market. The bankruptcy does not mean the end, the liquidation and death of businesses, as workers experience it. If there is a market perspective, these companies can be sold out of bankruptcy. There are a number of examples, and positive ones, where the bankruptcy sold "Mitros" from Sremska Mitrovica, "Pionir" from Subotica, "Livnica" from Topola and other companies. People still work there, do business, and receive regular wages. The bankruptcy is a cure, not the end of life for one company, and that's what the public needs to explain. The government's goal, led by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, is to create conditions for successful settlement of the fate of the privatisation entities, which have conditions for sale, because if there were to be forced executions on the property of those entities during the procedure, there is an objective inability to implement their privatisation. In the end, in the voting day, like the other SNS MPs, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28930	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28931	The story of privatization is always a favourable ground for demagogy, for bickering, for low blows, and I think today's debate had some of these features, but I think it's good to get back to facts and what's reality. How convenient the ground is for all these bad things, privatisation can easily be measured and quantified in a very simple way. We had three stages in the privatisation of the Serbian economy. The Serbian economy otherwise collapsed in the 1990s, largely due to a poor policy that, first, did not translate from that planned economy, in the previous period, into a market economy, and then there were wars, sanctions, bombings, technological obsolescence, and these are all the great reasons for the economy to be bad. Of course, an additional bad story about privatisation, i.e. a poor operation happened after 2000, in a period that I would call the second phase of privatisation. We all know that there were two laws in the 1990s, but under the 2001 Privatisation Act, which began in 2002, we have three phases. The first phase is in 2002 and 2003. Over 850 privatisations, 120,000 people worked in these companies, billions and 200, 300 million were income in euros, without even one privatisation that could be placed on any of these lists on any list of suspects. I'd say it was Perikl's time of privatisation in Serbia. From 2004 to 2009, privatisation that was pretty dirty, where there was everything, where those lists of suspicious, criminal privatisations were filled, mostly, and that was one bad period that compromised the concept of privatisation and all that it needed to bring us. Stage three, and here I agree with the minister who said it nicely, that's the last six years, from 2009 to 2015, that's one combination of hibernation and matchmaking, I would say. The minister did not say that in the last six years the current government has participated. From 2012 to today, exactly three years. It's one logical legacy, a bad legacy of what was before. That matchmaking was seen through the sale of NIS, through the sale of the flag, which we still don't have contracts for, I don't want to talk about JAT anymore, because Serbs know it's one big failure. What is it that our objections to this law? We'll vote against it. First, Article 2, we have an amendment on it, we're singleing out those potential strategic 17s or how many companies there are already, and we don't think that's going to win anything for that another half year. If they have a chance to do something good, find a good groom, it'll be over by the end of this year. Six months next year, it's hardly gonna bring anything new. Secondly, they are unclear criteria by which they are strategic. Why, for example, is it on that potential list, “Kruševac oil factory”? What's the strategic aspect? Why is "Politics" there, with all due respect, the people who work there? But what is it strategically for Serbia? ‘Icarbus’ was solved by Vucic — that is, ‘Mercedes’. RTB Bor – solved three or four times in the last three years. "Jumko" – solved in December 2012, also Vukic solved. "Gallenika" – solved. "Long-term corporations" - I don't know what's wrong with that. ‘PKB Corporation’? I can't believe he can't find a buyer, I think he's saving himself for someone who dresses in white and puts something around his head. Anyway, that's one problem. Another problem is Article 15, which destroys legal certainty. What was started to privatise under the existing law continues under the new law, which is something contrary to the principle of legal certainty. Article 18, where the deadline is also eight days, is the constitutional deadline for the start of the law, and you suggest that it should apply immediately. So privatisation must be completed. It's taking too long, and that's why so many dirty and criminal things have been created. I'm pushing for it to end as foreseen by the current law at the end of this year. And the stories of the demagogy we'll hear probably in the follow-up of this session, the lies, there's always time for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28932	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28933	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, honored guests, I was a national MP in 2000, even voted in favour of the Privatisation Act, because the late prime minister at the time, was able to convince us that from one model of privatisation, the voucher, we would move on to another. I wish we hadn't. Of the 3,000 companies, as far as I can remember, more money was received for the "Mobtel" than for the entire economy we found. The system functioned in a way that could be considered approximately after 2001, you could describe it this way – I am the prime minister, I am the minister, I am a political god, through privatisation I will help myself and my neighbor. So, financial directors, speaking of matches, and I believe that my fellow farmer is extremely understanding about the matchmaking, to say that the financial director of the former regime's party bought three sugars for three euros. And what little revenue the state got, it had to pay them back more through various projects and jobs. Let's remember that it was the creator of the sugar affair, even though he was the financial director of the former regime party, in which my colleague was a farmer. He made an affair called "sugar" and the state therefore suffered far greater coincidences than it received. She received three euros, nine euros for three sugars, but had to pay millions and millions of euros in compensation for the sugar affair that was produced, thanks to the purchase of three sugars for three euros. Where good luck it was just shopping three times three euros, nine euros, that was the ultimate damage, however, the damage was far greater. I also have to remind myself of the privatisation of DIN and DIV when markets were sold instead of factories. So, all the smokers, all those who consume cigarettes, were sold by the factories given and the promises that no one for a certain number of years would be able to lift the processing capacity of tobacco, or cigarettes factories, so that the buyer could benefit fully as quickly as possible and all foreign cigarettes became domestic. The excise decreased and the budget value of a billion and 200 million cigarette factories went away by about 500m euros. For these 500m euros, they, through a monopoly that they have received that no one else can raise cigarette factories for a certain number of years, have succeeded in a very short time to recover the investment. It wasn't just the factories that were sold, people were sold. This time, those who consumed cigarettes were sold. In this wild, tumbling, predatory privatization, many jobs have simply been deleted and some money has been received for those jobs, on the one hand. That's what the state spent on jobs these same tycoons used to do. Therefore, the money that was received is again in a certain way, through projects, returned to the same people who for very little money took a huge fortune and everything that was ours became theirs. These places have been paid by accident and pain, hundreds of thousands of fired workers who have since, empty pockets and empty stomachs, been lurking in Serbia, and now we have people between 50 and 60 years old, without pension and without pay. Jobs are simply wiped out. Worse still, the agricultural enterprises, in particular the processing and warehouses, instead of being, as some of us advocated, the subject of privatisation and belonging to the primary agricultural producers, and in such a way that they, through agricultural production, complemented their revenues, became the prey of the master of the transition, so that, except that for cheap money, they got huge fields of land, orchards and meadows, they got storage capacity, they got both the instrument and other agricultural producers became the hostage of these large tycoons that had reached huge processing facilities, so that agricultural products could take over, buying and not pay, so that they could deal, instead of buying – taking over, instead of paying, they could not pay, and thus increase their wealth. I will remind the minister of the privatisation of veterinary cells, which are about 32 ruined, and in such a way a serious blow has been given to livestock health and measures programme. I now cite the example, what the Committee on Agriculture has asked, that the veterinary station in Bujanovac be declared a public service, or, by law, exempt from the privatisation process, because if privatised, it can be a major instrument in this sensitive area. It can be a significant instrument of great smuggling, which is usually very difficult to contain in this area. I think that veterinary station, that was the board's position, and we passed it on to the government, I don't know where it came from, but I mean, there are board members here who are present, that this Bujanovac veterinary station, since it works in a very sensitive area, should be excluded from the privatisation process. The very information that "Mobtel" has brought more money, which was a private company, which was taken in the way it was taken from its owner, that it has brought more income than any other privatisation, speaks about the way and character of these privatisations. This is where the minister called Lincoln. Lincoln, among other things, said – The government of the people, from the people, to the people. The problem was that the party to the former regime that still ruled the territory was not the government of the people for the people, but it was the government against the people, the government of the general people's collapse. I also have to remind you that one another, I'm going to quote Thomas Man, told the state everything, and for the government as much as he deserves. So, Mr. Minister, you have to turn your hands, not as a party to the former regime, to turn people and businesses' hands, you have to turn your sleeves and make nothing out of anything. Our people are most angry because the winners of the transition in the way I have described we have not punished more than bread hungry and thirsty, barefoot and barefoot, they want us to punish the winners of the transition that thus robbed the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28934	Thank you. The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28935	Dear MP, just for your information very clearly and briefly, the Veterinary Station in Bujanovac has been interrupted privatisation and has been returned to the municipality, i.e. it will be transferred to the municipality in order to remain as a public service, as well as 23 other veterinary stations that we have agreed together with the Ministry of Agriculture and local self-government to be transferred to the property of the locals, just so that the public service is preserved in an adequate manner, in favour of our citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28936	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28937	Thank you. I think we have an agreement. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, not only on my behalf, I would like to thank the Government and the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation because, unlike the party of the former regime, it has taken the seriousness of the situation and how important these veterinary cells are for our livestock production, especially in Bujanovac, because it would be a major instrument of smuggling. So once again, I want to thank you for your reaction to the government and the Ministry of Business and Privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28938	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28939	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, here we are, if we refuse to take a break, eight or seven and a half hours exactly, we're doing it all the time. I really listened very carefully to your opening statement first, and then to the presentation of all my colleagues. The opening exhibition differs from the opening exhibition of 12 May last year, the second minister. I can tell you that you are one of the few in this room who came before the government and was critical both of you and of your predecessors and made some promises, which he said stood by his authority and his life reference to it. I absolutely trust you. I just don't agree with one thing, Mr. Minister. The moment you became Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you accepted all the good and bad things left by the ministers before you, not the first one who was before you, but the one before him, and the one before him, and before him. Because the moment you accepted the candidacy and accepted that you came here and took an oath as a minister, you probably read everything that was done in that ministry and saw that there was room for you to materialize your solution, and you also accepted everything that was good and bad inheritance. Well, what I'm about to honor for you now, that's what happened in this room on May 12th and just before that, while there was a principle debate and a debate in detail and what wasn't held. Whether it's the Agency for Privatisation, whether it's the Government, whether it's a negligent enterprise, whether it's incompetence of leadership and management, we're not interested in it. We passed a law with hard guarantees and hard promises, along with stories of distinguished colleagues sitting like this a year ago that it would be great, that 520 companies that are problematic, whose former regime I don't know what they're doing, now this regime is going to solve it and it's going to be great, and we're talking about 92,000, as you say, workers. No one in their right mind wants these people to go to the street, no one in their right mind. We all want this economy to start and start an economy, not to be sad faces on the street, but to make people laugh. But what I want to underline again, where you were very correct and said that you found what you found, not to quote, not to repeat, and that you tried to do. But this government, Mr. Minister, where you've been in office for three years, in one or the other, but the majority of the assembly and the government has been working for three years. It's been three years since what you're saying now is that we're gonna do it. Now I'm asking, this law is valid until December 31st, until we change it, and we move it in five months, is it definitely moving and what's going to happen in those five months, which is going to be so important that we have to bring and move in five months? Is it possible, since I've been taught to go from deadline to deadline, that's the problem of skipping next year's local elections? It seems funny, but I don't want it to be true. That would mean then, unfortunately for us, because I'm saying that no normal person can want someone to lose their job, this extension has no effect. I like to have an effect, and I would like everyone to be resolved, because you said, and that's what your colleagues said, and here's what I'm going to quote -- that it's also important in determining, and now I'm talking about these 17 companies, and you said that it's less because there's more companies in a concert, so it's less than 17, so it's seen that they have market potential, that they have strategic significance, that they're important for the region, that they have the ability to encourage the development of companies that are following the production process, that they have a perspective market. Then you counted that there goes Jumko, which has been agreed, as you said, a job for 12m euros and 1,700 employees, so there's Simpo from Vranja, so you've listed the companies, and I'm going to ask one question now. "Vagonka" and "Locomotiva", you explained that you had agreed with the workers and explained that it was something that was most certain, and they were looking for a bank guarantee and they had a job that got over 5m euros in tender, if I had good information. For your information and my information and these people who continue to listen, and thank them for being in the O.R. until we finish the session, the "Vagonka" can have a market and can only exist on the territory of the Republic of Serbia where it currently operates over 15,000 wagons. I think that's the exact information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28940	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28941	I don't understand, if Nisu is 36% unemployed, how come no company has entered these 17 and given a chance to at least some people keep their jobs? I hope, Mr. Minister, that you will make an effort to get these 17 companies another one, to be 18 and to have one in Nis. Remember that it is the centre of Serbia under Sava and Danube, below Belgrade and that there are 250,000 people living there and there is 36% unemployment. That's a hell of a number. You, as a minister, should pay attention and help the city. For example, Belgrade has an unemployment rate of 17.5% to 18%. So that's twice as much. Please, in your efforts to preserve jobs, pay attention to the city of Nis, and it is located in the Republic of Serbia and should have due attention to the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28942	Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28943	Dear MP, thank you for your suggestions and for your remarks, but I will repeat what I said, which is that we are sincerely fighting for every company that has the opportunity, any market survival, any opportunity to pack up the privatisation until the deadlines provided for by the laws to publish them. As far as the law itself is concerned, you're probably, and I guess the lapus is concerned, said that it's time for us to privatise December 31st and that we're extending it. No, it's for a change in social capital, so that's where I see that you understand and that's not controversial. For these 17 companies, we've been looking for these years from the moment the law was passed, just to end the process, from forced collection just to protect the companies and the other part of the company by October 31st. As far as the Nis companies themselves are concerned, Nis is indeed one of the cities that has been hit, a large industrial centre once in the past. Unfortunately, all these years ago, not only in these six years that we're talking about, it means, not only that in the last six years nothing has been done, but also 15 years and 30 years ago Nis has survived really very difficult moments, because the industry that once existed in Nis for the most part and which was the bearer of development has now become secondary to world trends and compared to what some companies have done. We used to make televisions, transistors, radios and electronic components. The Nis electronics industry was widely known, but the Nis Electronic Industry was unable to withstand competition from upcoming gigans, such as Samsung, such as Japanese and German companies. Probably by following economic indicators, you can see how many big companies from the world, as they used to be from Telefunken, Grundinga, German companies that functioned and were large, which did not hold that race without listing less known companies that were. Great investments are needed, large investments are needed not only in equipment and machines, but large investments in development, research. Huge resources needed to create new machines that would make microchips in education centers. We race as simply as the country, the former SFRY, were not ready for the world race at that level. So, the moment we lost, the whole Nis lost regret, because the global economic flows went in another direction just as far as the MIN locomotive we were talking about and the work that we've been talking to and the jobs we've been talking to the director and the union representatives at the ministry is one of those cases where you talk to people and when you put math on the table, in the economy, mathematics only measured everything. From this job that the state was supposed to give new funds, new guarantees, the MIN locomotive had no funds, pure money, one salary to pay its workers. So that job wasn't as good as it was supposed to be and it was just another breath to try to do something. Nothing special would be done. When we explained all this, I repeat, and you can find it in the media, in the newspapers, and talk to people who were at the meeting, the union representatives went out and said that what they heard based on the indicators we gave her, that it was an acceptable measure for them to take the company into bankruptcy, to separate itself through the property in general, and that part of the workers continued to work. And today you have a part of the worker who has continued to work on the repairs and who will continue to work on the future. We will also do for every company, especially a Nis company where we really have a large number of companies that don't work to help this process be reconstructed, to find some new partners, but sometimes it can't be a classic process of privatisation and selling businesses, because no one will come to buy our debts. No one can implement new business and business plans that are the basis for participation in the harsh economic market, unfortunately, which is with us, and especially at the world level.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28944	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Dr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28945	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am amazed at the fact that those Mr. Ministers who tried today, unobstructedly to criticise you, have none here in the O.R. As you can see, none of them from the Democratic Party. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for seeing you more and more in this tall home of the National Assembly. It speaks of you as a minister, of your dedicated work and of the Ministry and Government in general. I am particularly amazed that there is no president of the parliamentary groups of any other than ours, Mr Babic, who is here as the president of the largest parliamentary group with the highest obligations always with us and shares fate here with us in this National Assembly. That speaks of how serious the opposition is about problems and these companies. As we can see, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a privatisation process that began as a global process more than 20 years ago. The process, as I said, is global and global and has affected all the former Socialist countries of Eastern Europe and developing countries, and even undeveloped countries. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, by the way, all the governments of the former Socialist countries, were in a hurry to carry out the privatisation process as quickly as possible, which means turning social and state property into private property, which we call privatisation. The privatisation process in real-socialist countries, the countries ended all in time, only the Republic of Serbia has not finished today. Why, ladies and gentlemen, MPs? Well, precisely because the previous governments of the former regime hesitated to do so for as long as possible to use these companies for their own gain. They know it very well, Mr. Minister, so tonight, against me, and there is no DS. The full 15 years have passed, and the privatisation process has not been completed because the former governments, the former regimes from these social and state-owned companies have drawn financial resources for their own wealth. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this law as well as many others that we have brought here in this assembly for the last year has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, whom he submitted to us, the MPs in this high house of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 27 April of the year 2014. And, of course, ladies and gentlemen, not to forget, because of the citizens of Serbia, this exhibition by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most comprehensive, most precise, systematic, most ethical and largest of all 72 previous exposures from the time of the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Prote Mateja Nenadovic, in 1805 until today. There's no historian in the world who won't confirm this. On page 10, that is 11 of the exposés, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic writes that the Government will quote - he will also take care of our state-owned bleeding companies. Some of these companies have a sustainable business modem, but they are being mishandled, some of them used to make certain powerful people rich through a waste of funds. Over 20 years, no one has dared to touch these companies. Everyone was pushing things under the carpet, lying to people, and often they were lying to themselves, waiting for the state to pay off the cost of all citizens for something they didn't really earn. Each government moved the ball to the next one. It's a finished quote. Ladies and gentlemen, it's very good that the proposal to amend the Privatisation Act came to the agenda of this assembly. I underline, anything that hasn't been completed in the last 15 years in the privatisation process of this government of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, must end it. Of course, it will end up fortunately for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and unfortunately for our political opponents who, I say again, are not there tonight, at least as far as the DS is concerned in this room and others besides Dr. Bradic. By adopting a proposal to amend the Privatisation Act, 17 enterprises are vitally strategic for the state as economic operators in both Kosovo and Metohija will be exempt from privatisation for the longest year. This will allow bankruptcy and forced payment to be postponed in 17 businesses to enable them to be successfully privatised, then re-evaluate the company's assets within 30 days of the call for privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no intention of talking about the privatisation process in this sense anymore because Mr. People's MPs from the SNS are very well, better than I said, and allow me, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic and Mr. Minister, to say just three more, four sentences for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. By privatising the banking sector and handing the banks over to foreigners, the former regime essentially left the country's important economic leverages to the residents. And that's the biggest problem, Mr. Sertico, Mr. Ministero, you know very well. The concept of privatisation has been applied since 2001 and has led to the sale of all companies that have their profitability from Serbia's market, as they had previously been placed on foreign markets. It's a tragedy of the former regime. So besides that, I'm just going to count four, for the sake of time, tobacco industry, cementers, beer industry and banks. Well, I'll just be a minute. The former regime destroyed the country's banking system. Bozidar Djelic introduced bankruptcy into four major banks: "Beobank", "Investbank", "Jugobank" and "Belgrade Bank". The banks, respected Serbian citizens, were developmental. They were credited with their own resources on favourable terms. These banks were supposed to be the engine for domestic economy development, and they weren't supposed to be closed. And he locked them up. Djelic then lied that the debt of the four banks was eight and a half billion, and it was only seven hundred euros, and total claims were 6.7 billion euros, so four times more than their debt, and that destroyed the country's economic foundations. That's how the former government privatized. I believe, respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, that Mr. Djelic will catch up with the hand of justice and will be responsible for these misdeeds. I hope that in addition to former ministers who have already finished some time in custody, Jasna Matic, Minister Oliver Dulic, Minister Sasa Dragina, Minister of Interior, will find at least three other ministers. One of them is Bozidar Djelic, and one of them is an MP in this National Assembly, but unfortunately against me, he is not in the opposition party, and I believe he will be on the accused bench for the robbery privatisation. That way, the former regime destroyed our past, respected citizens, our present, destroyed our children's future. If they had stayed in power for only a year on a republican level, they would have destroyed our roots. Now, that's what you respected citizens didn't let them do. You drove them into a political past, and you threw them into a junkyard of political history from which they will never, for the happiness of Serbian citizens, ever return. That's why I invite you ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, especially Mr. Brad, to the opposition, because you are the only feather to say, tonight, that you are voting for this law because at least that way, you will at least reduce the problems you have caused for 10 years for the citizens of Serbia. In this way, you will also make your contribution to the modernisation of Serbia, which the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, and the entire Government, Mr. Minister, especially Mr. Bradiq, from the opposition, is that you are the only feather to say tonight, that you are voting for this law because at least in that way, you will at least reduce the problems you have caused by 10 years for the citizens of Serbia. In this way, you will also make a contribution to the modernisation of Serbia, which the Prime Minister, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and the entire government of Mr. Minister, the Republic of Serbia, has been assisted by the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic, most of the MPs in this National Assembly, and some from the opposition benches and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28946	I thank Dr. Atlagic. The word has Dr Blagoje Bradić, a replica, to mention your name and name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28947	Thank you, colleague Atlagic, for mentioning me. I don't see that I did something very big because I'm in the O.R., it's my parliamentary obligation. And as for the vote on the law, we are this law, i.e. This assembly voted in favour of this law on 12 May 2014. We today, and I will read to you Article 6 in order to know what we need to talk about today in principle, and the day after that to vote – privatisation is a obligation for privatization entities with social capital. The social capital of the privatisation entity must be privatised by 31 December 2015. And what we do, i.e. you will vote, the provision of Article 2 of this Article does not apply to privatisation entities designated by the Government Act for entities of strategic importance privatisation, as well as to privatisation entities whose head office is located, or primarily works in the territory of AP KIM, or whose property is located in the territory of AP KIM. We voted on it last year, as the National Assembly, I say on 12 May, we move this deadline. And there's a little editorial here, it's said -- you said Mr. Minister that the government's decision would happen after the session, and here it says -- which government act is set for privatisation entities. It should be written – which will be determined. So you could modify it with an amendment. So, Mr. Atlagic, I don't see any reason to vote for this amendment, and the reason was in my principle debate when I spoke to Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28948	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28949	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, with associates, honourable Members of Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act. Great law, thanks to the government and the minister, here we come to fantastic conclusions. I was shocked to hear that the World Bank calculated that Serbia should privatise for companies that are half dead is 750m euros. What to say. What did the former government do for 20 years, my people, 526 companies are privatized. As many successful companies have privatized, I'd like to hear it from people who, right now, are not there again, but it's their parliamentary right. What is important, what the government has done in a maestro way, we are finally finishing, the Privatisation Act is, above all, that social capital, privatisation entities must be privatised by 31 December 2015. However, the government believes that there are companies, companies, which are of strategic importance, and that is extraordinary, and that is 17 companies that will not now be in the privatisation process, they have been extended by another year. Here's why. These are companies of capital importance and really have strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, and the other of these 17 companies that I'm going to tax are already in the process of finding recapitalisations, i.e. to find sources of income, i.e. Investors. They're good companies. We just mentioned JUMKO, who currently employs 1700 workers and has a better one, these people pay taxes, these people have income. Bravo. So we're doing everything right. Thanks to the government and the ministry, we made 40 privatisation companies according to EU codes, by standards, standardisation, by my people. We're talking about 526, the company, so what did this government do in 20 years? We've made 40 companies out of a year, it's just a matter of days when it's going to be done the way it's supposed to be done. And as for companies that are under the protection of the government at the moment, that is, excluded from this law, only a year. Of course they're excluded, that's why. That's where 25 thousand people work. That means, with births, it's about 100,000 people. We made a social program for them. That's why we gave it another year. What's this about? In that year, one of the majority of them might retire. Next year too, and for the rest we provided 16 billion dinars. Sixteen billion dinars for transition. Fantastic. No one's ever done that, and we should commend the government and the Ministry. This is great. All praises. As for the company, that our viewers know, these are primarily FAM company AD Kruševac, FAP Priboj, HIP Petrochemija, PKB, Galenika, Trajal-Galenika, "Politika", "Ikarbus", RTB Bor, Holding-Kables Jagodina, "The First Five-year-old", meaning companies of strategic importance. Also, the government said that the companies located at KIM, which are under the great usurpation of the Privatisation Agency, which we know from many previous privatisations of such firms, have an additional year to do the right to privatization, i.e. to prepare documentation without usurpation of the Privatisation Agency. That's great. What I like very much are the penalties that the government, the Ministry has prescribed. The fines are mild, I would do it a little more drastically and worse, if finally people who deal with manipulation and embezzlement were punished. I think the time will come for that, too. We talked about judges who might work, maybe don't work, my job, I don't want to owe it, but the point is that now they're three months to five years old, and all the people who did the crime will be responsible and criminal. The fines range from 100,000 dinars to 10,000 euros. In my opinion, a little bit, I'd do it differently but, well. So it's a fantastic improvement. Everything you do, you do well. Nobody wants to stay on the street, I said it would end. What else is there to say is what we did and it's good enough? First of all, we stopped funding the loser company. If something's dead-dead, it's dead. We'd better do something new and hire strong people, and we've already hired for a very short period of time, 22,000. It's statistics, I didn't make it up even though I hear from my colleagues here who unfortunately went home, they don't want to hear us who might know something, we've already hired a bunch of people. We opened two or three days ago in Ruma "Calcedonia", the second factory, the first one was in Subotica, so we opened "Svarovski", so we opened up in Krukupnje, and we opened up in Velika Pazova, so we opened everywhere, across Serbia. Bravo for the ministry and for the Serbian government, just keep going. You have the support of all of us in front of the SNS, of course mine. I could talk for another two hours, but my time is running out, so I'll thank you for your attention. In voting day, the SNS will, of course, vote for such an extraordinary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28950	Thank you. The word has a national emissary of Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28951	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act, which proposes to exempt strategically important companies from the deadlines set before us. These include companies that are of strategic importance, but also those whose headquarters, or activity, is carried out in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. The goal to achieve is clear. It is to find the best possible solutions for businesses, for those privatisation entities for which there are real opportunities for sale. Otherwise, without such changes, privatisation would be disabled because protection from forced collection would be removed. These 17 companies also include "The First Petoletka" from Triestenik, which met the government's criteria and was protected by hand. I also speak of this as an MP and as a resident of the municipality of Trstenik, but also as a worker of the factory "First Petoletka". I don't think there's a family in Trieste who's not touched by the fate of the Five-year-old. This was once a giant, today it is a factory with 3,000 workers, but still of strategic importance for both the Rasinski district and the whole of Serbia, as in the area of the machinery industry there is a business leading in the Balkans. Unfortunately, in previous years due to wars, sanctions, but also bad business, it has been brought into a situation in which it is. The subsidies granted were spent without any control, there was no strategy or plan to invest for development, there was no political will to change the management structure, to complete privatisation, but there was therefore a lot of party employment. Now it's all left to solve at this point, and it could have been much, much earlier to get rid of. However, regardless of all these difficulties, "Petoletka" has managed to reduce with 500 workers in the previous period, with 500 workers who have gone through the social programme, to realise 500,000 euros more without subsidies. This only speaks of how it is possible to work well with only a small incentive from the state. This says that we took the opportunity, that this is not a wasted chance, that we are willing to work and achieve this sustainable business. In the past, the Petolete factories have also achieved this goal, and they regularly pay salaries and self-deliveries. I would say just one example, it's the company's business company, the "Second Industry", which is the support of the defence industry. The dedicated industry within the ‘First Five-years’ has co-operatives, such as cylinders, brake techniques and TMOs. This is a company that really has a perspective and in the previous period had excellent co-operation with the Ministry of Defence, but also with the entire government. I really trust this co-operation to continue. I have confidence in the government, in the Ministry of Economy, that for these privatisation entities the best possible solution will be found and in the day of voting I will support these amendments and additions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28952	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milinko Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28953	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, Serbian citizens, we have a very important proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Privatisation. It is important for the state, important for privatisation entities, important for employees of privatisation entities, for participants in the privatisation process, means for buyers and strategic partners. The bill contains 18 members who correct the shortcomings of the previous law. Article 6 The law stipulates that privatisation is mandatory for social capital entities until 31.12.2015. Amendments and additions propose an exception for entities designated by the government of the Republic of Serbia as entities of strategic importance, as well as for entities whose headquarters, assets and significant activity are located in the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Article 94 is complemented by the provision that, if the Agency has issued a public call for privatisation or sale by an act, enforcement procedures and mandatory charges cannot continue until the sale of capital or property is announced and no later than 31.10.2015. The same goes for strategic partners until the same date. The enforcement of forced enforcement would be delayed until 31.10.2015 for 37 privatisation entities and nearly 6,000 employees and for a year since the adoption of amendments to the law for 17 enterprises and 22 000 employees of strategic importance, and would also be saved from the uptake of property in Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, the objective of the change is to bring the capital, property and privatisation obligation into line with the fact that it is a fair market value, normally with the criminal responsibility of those who would give it. One of the 17 companies of strategic importance found on this list and which, according to the government's criteria, deserved to be on the list is RTB Bor, the Mining-Topier Based Bor. It is a strategic enterprise because 120 years of production of colored and precious metals and has given all governments so far aid, i.e. to a large extent in GDP. In its 112-year mining history, RTB Bor overturned two billion 463 million tons of excavations, two-thirds of which is a waste, one-third of the ore. He gave 5 million and 400,000 tons of copper, 168 thousand 850 kilos of gold and a million pounds of silver. RTB's collapse has started since 2000 with decomposition. At the time, RTB had 19 companies in its composition and 22.5 thousand workers. From 2004 to 2008, 15 companies and 17,000 workers emerged from RTB. RTB invested $371m in these companies, and out of that he received only $12m, 17 000 of the unemployed and closed factories. In 2007, the first attempt at privatisation was unsuccessful. In 2008, also a failed attempt to privatise privatisation, Kuprum was supposed to privatise a company that is only $250m, which today owns almost a billion of assets. From 2009 to 2009, funding from the RTB Development Fund was received only for social peace and wages, and 100m euros were given in that period. At that time, RTB held to stand by for sale, devalued property and capital, and simply wanted to sell into the default of RTB. Fortunately, both Serbia's states and RTB employees and the entire Timoska province, RTB has not been sold. Today's governor on a visit to Boru, Jorvanka Tabaković said – Where good luck is that more companies are privatized as RTB, i.e. If it wasn't privatized, where would we end today. On the contrary, when money is paid for social peace and wages, this government gives money for investments and simply gives money exclusively for investments, with the restriction that this money can only be used for this and that it must be justified. Money was given to rebuild the machinery, money was given to open a new mine and money was given to modernise the fleets. Money is also given for metallurgy, 251m euros, for the opening of new solvents and new sulphuric acid factories and from the production we now have, 230,000 tonnes of concentrate, the capacity will be increased to 400,000 tonnes of concentrate. What is RTB available today and why is it of strategic importance? The Bor mining gunner base has 1,350,000 tons of certified ore reserves, enough for 40 years under the same conditions of exploitation on average, as it has been so far. Further geological research is being done on the moves from Paracino to Danube. What else makes RTB strategic? So far, i.e. last year, RTB has made 300m dollars in revenue. There are 5,000 workers who regularly receive their salaries on average 70,000 dinars net. He's got profits from his current business. He regularly serves his customers and suppliers and regularly settles his obligations. He spends 400 million a month on electricity, 300 million on oil and about 550 million on wages. With the new cannon and our concentrate in two and a half years, with another mine opening, the RTB's profits will be between 50 and 80 million a year. I am saying this for reasons to create a parallel between one and the other authorities, one power that was usurped, which was only given for wages and preparations for sale and the current government with the ministry, headed by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, whose RTB workers owe a great debt of gratitude because he recognized that with investment he could get older in mining and that the simple company that was to be sold for 280 million today is worth a whole billion. This can also be a concept for the other 17, or 16 enterprises in restructuring, so that restructuring can come out for next year. Since time is running out, all I'm going to say is that in the voting day, I will vote with pleasure in changing and supplementing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28954	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Velinka Tosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28955	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected Mr. Minister with associates, respected colleagues, respected Serbian citizens, Loznica is just one city from many towns in Serbia that suffers the consequences of poor privatisations. Today, the city has about 87,000 inhabitants. In the 1980s, around 24,000 people worked in Loznica. Today, the number is half smaller, of which only about 6,000-7,000 people work in the economy. Companies that have ceased to exist since the first privatisations, or existing ones, are an example of poor privatisations with limited business problems, which usually ended in liquidation or bankruptcy. These were once far - known enterprises such as the former Viskoza chemical complex, which employs about 12,000 people, and today only bankruptcy managers and handfuls of employees work in its factories. The next failed company is the Zidar Construction Company, sold out of bankruptcy and stopped working, had over 1,000 employees. The company "Drina" with over 1,000 employees, then Auto Transport "Loznica", Confection "Moda", "1. May Lesnica, “Lofolen” autobrake factory, as well as companies with huge problems, the “Loznica” water company, the “Zajca” mines. The last company to go bankrupt is the hotel-tourism company "Banja Koviljača". Part of that sad story is some small companies. The password area was known for its successful agricultural cooperatives. There were 15 of them. None of them are working today, and they've hired over 500 people. About 18,000 people remain unemployed for 12 years of transition and privatisation in Loznica. The password expects state aid. Did this number of people have to lose their jobs without even a hair on their heads missing? There are examples that people from the management of these companies have become public officials at local and republican level since 2000. From everything, there are no examples of successful privatisations in Loznica, and almost as a rule it all ended with bankruptcy or liquidation. For years, we have witnessed complaints from citizens about the privatizations carried out, and I ask that the investigative authorities be involved, because it must be someone responsible for the thousands of Loznica workers being out of work. All the privatisations were made without the authority of local self-government. Systemically, the authorities of local self-government should be able to participate in the process or at least be informed of its progress, because the information I have provided had to be collected, improvised, instead of having legal obligations at the level of local self-government that this area is being monitored. What do you say after all this? That it is absolutely necessary to change the law, because no law is ideal, it is subject to change, and therefore this law must be modified and adapted to the new situation. For all of this to be stated, I ask all fellow Members of the People's Parliament to support the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28956	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28957	I expected, Mr. Minister, that we would debate more today, that there would be more ideas in this room, that there might be some criticism. But of all that, the least I could hope for and the least I could expect was that at half past the end of this debate, we get an empty room. I kind of understand this empty hall, and I respect Mr. Bradic as an honest man and a man who does his job responsibly throughout his career and now as a folk MP, but I believe that this half-empty hall is the answer of people who have contributed to our economy being in this situation where they are, and that they simply had no cheek, no honor to stay here until the end of us. I will begin my presentation with one criticism, not criticism, because you have seen from the presentation of MPs, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the SNS that we will vote fully in favour of this bill. My only objection is to the name of the law – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation. Mr. Sertic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is not privatisation. We can't talk in 2015, after 20 and change years of various failed privatisation models. We can't talk about privatisation, what, destroyed, devastated, several times privatized, returned, loaded. Your job, Mr. Minister, and that's what Mr. Shubara, my countryman, will do well to interpret, well to understand, speak the same language, your job is to conduct. That dating job can be very good, very nice, when you meet a guy who's a college graduate, who's young, handsome, capable, you meet a girl from a good house. And that's what used to be. Now it's your job to conduct when a man my age or older than me you're trying to marry, and he's got more pounds and less hair, he's got five marriages behind him, he's got so many kids or more kids, he's out of work, he pays child support. How do you marry this man? How can you sell or find a strategic partner or a girl from a good house for those companies that have been devastated for years, for decades, kidnapped, cremated, where everything that could have been ruined has been ruined? We were able to talk about privatisation in Serbia until about 2010, 2011, when there was something to sell and when there was and who to pass to, when the global economic crisis didn't collapse so strongly on our country, and at the time we really didn't have any answer. We can talk about the privatisation process in 2001 to 2004, because the law came into force in June 2001. He was armed for four years, Mr. Sertice. Armed by 2005 to finish. That goal has not been achieved. The law has been amended several times, changed, and even after 15 years, the entire privatisation process has not been completed. In the period when we had something to sell, from 2001 to 2004, 1,382 companies or two were sold on one business day. This speed was insufficient for the number of companies waiting in privatisation. The privatisation income, Mr Sertic, for these nearly 1,400 companies was barely one and a half billion euros. Scandalous little bit at a time when you had something to sell and sell to. From 2004 to 2011, up to that zenith until when something could be sold and had its value and had at the end of the line to be sold, another 2,380 companies were sold with 332,000 employees. What are the characteristics of this privatisation? A dramatic drop in employment. The number of employees has been reduced by over 410 thousand. With 2.1 million in 2001, the number of employees was reduced to 1.7 million in 2011. During those years, when those who criticized us, and not now, they lost their annual jobs in companies that were for sale, which they sold, 45 thousand jobs a year. Share it with the number of months, and you will find scandalous and shocking numbers as many jobs are lost every minute, every second in Serbia. Due to poor privatisation, Serbia continuously reduced industry's participation in the creation of a gross domestic product in 2000. In 2011 Romania, neighbouring country, participation in the industry in the creation of GDP 41%, the Czech Republic 36%, Slovakia 35%, Slovenia 32%, Hungary 31%. I can talk about South Korea, and Russia, Germany, Japan, and then they'd figure out where we are. In Serbia, 18%. It's the result of all the experimentation and bad privatisations and bad models, at the time we had and what to sell and who to sell and when the performer's role was much simpler and better. Restructure, subgroup, scandal with all the things that were done and how they were done. The restructuring envisioned by the 2001 law. I will try to go through this whole procedure, because I'm sure you do, and I would also like the other people in Serbia to know that the Privatisation Act, or amendments to the 2005 Privatisation Act, has been made possible in the process of implementing restructuring to protect against forced collection and forced enforcement. The measure was scheduled to last for two years. Then in 2007, that famous 20g member allowed it to go on forever. Someone came to this hall today and said, "Oh, you do it populistly." What else is this? It was populism. When you run into a company, there's no job, there's strikes, there's problems, there's choices. When the elections need to be bought with money from all citizens of the Republic of Serbia – let's restructure. What are the effects of restructuring? The total number of enterprises in which the restructuring of 234 companies was launched. Companies sold from the restructuring, capital and property process, 104, but if it were 104, we said, we solved those 104, so I could accept and say, it's fine, but of those 104 broken sales contracts 89. What does that mean? Only 15 made it. What kind of success are we talking about? Of those 89, more importantly, 75 were re-restructured. In what way? By being robbed, or sold and kidnapped, the rest is in charge, so over-indebted, and then returned to restructuring and returned to pay for these obligations, who, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then in debt, impose on the economy, on what is healthy. There was no courage to end a procedure like this. You say -- by means of a sublegal act of the state and by decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it will make a decision that is 17 companies. That is what those who have made sure that the restructuring process itself is governed by a sublegal act. So, the whole restructuring process. Two hundred thirty-four companies, 104 privatized, 89 returned, 74, total madness, schizophrenicity, a sublegal act, and now the problem is why 17 companies are sublegal, very transparent and public. I've seen an amendment that I've talked to you about, Mr. Sertic, I don't have any problem with him being published on the government website of the Republic of Serbia, or the government, or anyone who should be ashamed of all this and making decisions for 17 companies that will have a chance up to a year, not a year, up to a year. Now we raise the temperature more and more and we get to the way and the practical things. I am very grateful to my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS, because today during the day, taking care of their seats, taking care of their neighbours, friends, fellow citizens from the local self-governments in which they live, who eventually chose to represent their interests in the National Assembly, talked about all these bad privatisations, talked about new chances that are given, but I will talk here about how the former regime is and why it is not here today, which is why these benches are empty. Alexa Shantic of Alexa Shantic, the company estimates that the damage is more than a few hundred million dinars. In particular, only on the basis of the 2008 framework loan contract, secured by the 2008 mortgage of 3.5m euros, is now the most significant one, the sale of Alexa Shantic's company, see to whom Mile Jerkovic, so that same Mile Jerkovic gets a loan based on the "Alexa Shantic" property of 3.5m euros. This loan and that money never ends on the account of "Alexe Shantic" but ends, of course, in the company VALKO D.O.O.Bak Topola. Quite accidentally related relatives, property, either with Milet Jerkovic and, better yet, related to the Vojvodine Development Bank. Nothing could have happened without the Vojvodina Development Bank. Nothing could have happened without the Democratic Party and without Bojan Pitiæ. Of course, the 3.5m euros that Alexa Shantic has never seen in his account, of course, had to be replaced and returned from the privatisation process. Someone else took 3.5m euros, someone else has to pay. If it was just one example, it'd be easy. Let's move on, Bačka from "Sivac", according to the information provided by society, again Mr. Jerkovic, of course in the organization of Pajtic, Development Banks, etc., etc., has entrusted this company in the following way – debt to interest loans of approximately 13.6m euros, in transactions with goods and services of 6m euros, executed, not charged services to natural persons of 21 million dinars, true. Again, none of it ended up in accounts, and it went into private pockets again, and who knows where. “Young Borac” from Sainta – loans, loans, suppliers, the same picture. "Agrobaca" – there was not enough for them to borrow on the basis of assets and credit, there they were alienated and combined. The latest combined "no-holan", a free estimate of 80,000 euros. The sale of assets, the sale of the economy, the sale of 291 hectares, etc., etc. ‘Mala Bosnia’, ‘Borderar’ Gakovo, etc., etc. Then what kind of privatisation do we have to talk about? We're talking about how well we're alive, what they've been through, what they've been through, what they've been through, what these people who work in these companies have been through, both the Vojvodina and the rest of Serbia. We can't talk about privatisation, we can talk about your hot, hot potatoes, but not the way a colleague did, so as he started, I thought I was talking more about the kitchen, and less about the really figurative hot and hot potatoes that you were given. This is now a battle for every company, for every job, for every man, for every chance. For too long, for years, there's been a singing lullaby for decades. Someone else ordered a lullaby, someone else paid for the lullaby. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia paid the lullaby. People in these companies have been put to sleep, in these companies, used to for years, to do nothing for decades. Someone will come from Belgrade, someone from the government will send money for salaries that aren't big, but they're safe. Someone else said -- you don't have to pay for electricity, you don't have to pay for water, you don't have to pay for gas, someone else will pay for it. Because of this attitude toward the economy, we lost what was healthy and lost what was healthy. We've lost those healthy companies and healthy businessmen in Serbia who are and I wish there were more and more. Those who regularly and day settle and pay employees and taxes and contribute and pay their bills. And of course I admire, I don't want to make any commercials like this. That's why I'll speak without a name. In my place, in the place where I come from, I didn't experience a better afternoon than three weeks ago when I met a young man who came to our Vranjska spa with his wife and two sons and 300 euros in his pocket. Then on the dining table with the bellows, with the idea, they began to make healthy food cookies. Now, this firm, Mr. Sertic, employs 43 people after six years. He doesn't have a single loan. From their sources, from what they earn, they build a 700 square-square hall on the edge of Vranjska Banje. He's planning to expand, plan to keep working, don't complain. We talked, I asked him if you needed anything. One of the only problems was about the building permit right around that hall around the farm in the building land, they solved the real cities. These people are founded on development not only in Vranjska Banja, these people are founded on the development of our society. Don't let these people get kidnapped to give what's unhealthy because we're afraid. We're going to vote in two days and we're going to vote for these 17 companies because they're companies that do their own work, they live on their own now, they pay for electricity, they pay for their commitments. I'm going to give you an example of Jumko 1,770 people working in Jumko right now, serving obligations and paying 50 to 60 million debts for electricity. What happened a few years ago? What happened to the people from Jumka? Roadblocks, no bills, dead company. Maybe those 17 companies didn't find their own strategic partner or whoever bought them and privatized them, maybe. I am sure that in the next year and that will happen, but what is the value of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the value of Alexander Vukic, his team in the government, you, Mr Sertic, you and your associates and Mr Shubara and others, what you have done for the past year to make these companies live on their own, from what they do. To pay wages, pay taxes, contributions, electricity, water, anything, everything every company needs to do. It's worth it if nothing else. The only weight around the legs, around the hands that have these companies, the only reason they need protection is because of what was in the past, because of that lullaby that was played, ordered and paid for by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Isn't that a chance to say, cap down for this government? In a year's time, 17 companies that live on their own earn from what they earn can also work and survive. Do you think they'd get the consent of both the IMF and the World Bank if they didn't? No, of course they wouldn't, but it's someone in this room who doesn't know what the result is, whose only result is by giving a Milet Jerkovic or some such Jerkovics, and a lot of them over the past 15 years are giving property that isn't theirs. The third thing that's been kind of quiet, about which few people have spoken is a new estimate of value. I've been through the amendments that have been proposed to require that this new value assessment not be done in 30 but 45 days, that's your assessment, although I don't see any reason to accept such an amendment. Why waste time, why waste these 15 days, especially since all these companies have a basis that has already been done before? Why would we lose another 15 days over all that? However, even there are those companies and those companies who wanted to do this the right way, so as examples of real and real estimates, at least according to the information that I had here, Alexa Shantić and IMPDO Majdanpek, "Magnochrom" Kraljevo, but we also have some things that are slightly extremely raised. Why? I can understand that someone and I'm sorry they're not Jagodina colleagues here so let's say the Jagodina cable industry makes an estimate of the property at 118m euros. I wish someone, in that old Serbian custom, would better start from a little higher price and get to the real one. I wouldn't want it done for another motive, to drive out potential partners and potential buyers at a high price. So what do we do? Directors will continue to receive good salaries, workers will continue to camp, someone from Belgrade will continue to bring money? He can't. It's just that kind of procedure is impossible. That's why this is one appeal and support to do this in 30 days, but to do it the right way, not what some procedures will freeze, stop. This is a good opportunity and this is a good reform course for the government of the Republic of Serbia. A course where we're going to end a painful procedure once and for all, give these companies a chance to wake up. These 17 woke up because the lullaby stopped, but also because someone from Belgrade, from the government, pinched them, so they woke up, so they showed what to do and what to do. But this is another good opportunity to show the reform course of this government, to respect private capital, to respect the private initiative, that the state is not the biggest employer, but the service and the citizens and the economy, to make a good investment environment that will be the same for both domestic and foreign investors and to stop taking away from the healthy one, and in Serbia there is a lot of it healthy, and to give it to the sick, but to become a society of healthy businesses and healthy economies. This is a good way, because I know you won't waste this time. This is a good way, because I know that you are willing and intellectually and politically to carry out this procedure until the end. That is why the SNS in the Full Capacity Voting Day will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28958	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Mr Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go, Mr. Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28959	Thank you, Vice President. At the end of this debate, he simply doesn't know where to begin, but I have to say that the citizens know, I've been an MP since 2008 and I haven't had a more honest conversation than we had with Minister Sertic and members of his ministry and the director of the Privatisation Agency. I think we understand each other completely, that we put all the cards on the table and I believe in the sincere intentions of what we want to do. I think it's quite clear to everyone. One of my colleagues here said that this topic today is suitable for... I don't want to use any of his appointments now. Perhaps the congregation and various topics are suitable for many things, for demagogy and others, but today this was the most suitable ground for hypocrisy. What we could hear today from the opposition is pure hypocrisy and pure replacement of thesis. So, if we did an analysis of what was going on, and I'm going to look back, you didn't give me today, Vice President, and I just wanted to react because there was a disgusting lie here. I must say, the SPS didn't vote for any of those privatisation laws at the time, followed by over 500 thousand people losing their jobs, on the street, being kicked out of their factories. For the sake of the public, I just want to point out that in 2003, 814 companies were privatised, for about a billion euros. In 2004, 43 companies were sold for 31 billion. But what I mentioned earlier when some colleagues were sitting in the assembly benches, and they were in the past periods of ministers, mentioned how it all fit together, and then in 06.01.2003, you have to cancel the Social Accounting Service which was also a control, and then allow these privatised enterprises to no longer control what they do when they move to business banks and whether they pay taxes, because that controller in the Social Accounting Service or the PDO, however you will, was also the controller whether you've accounted for it, so just give you back if you haven't paid a single dinar to the state and then you can't pay a dime. I can only say that what was done then, we can say that it was a joint criminal enterprise in the destruction of national economy, finance and society. If there's anything you need to form a special court in this country, that's for it. Then we'll talk about hot potatoes. So, guys, who brought us to this? It's all because of that. We're going round and round. My colleague Babić made an excellent analysis of everything and explained figuratively what situation we are in. I have to say, there's a director of the Privatisation Agency, in 2001, the Privatisation Agency was a service to the consulting houses, not to those of the Agency to be a service. So they took over the Agency's affairs. When we held the debate on the Law on the Privatisation Agency, 46 consulting houses were coming in, then I said, 4.27 billion dinars, and in 2003 it was their most picky year. At that time, experts received 18.6m euros and street workers. There was a chance that the Agency would give someone 20 times a chance to correct some mistakes when the field control got in control, and someone would immediately break up the privatisations. We also talked honestly that day about how and after the withdrawal of the money and after that kind of robbery privatisation came to him, and today I mentioned in the first part of the exposure that we might have forced some money twice, because the question is what will be the outcome of all this. If they were to make a parallel to what was happening before and before 2001 and when this so-called democratic government came, over three thousand companies were abolished on average from 10 to 20 people who were then guarding these economic systems, because then they accused us and spat on us how we destroyed everything. Well, I don't know what they were selling afterwards if we were destroying everything. That's what I've said here many times. More times years ago than when I was an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28960	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28961	I'm done. So, over 40,000 to 60,000 capable people from a business life have been expelled from work, and new managers have achieved losses of several billion euros. When we discuss the amendments by stating and an example of this report by the Anti-Corruption Council, it is clearly clear what kind of failures have been made on purpose to destroy businesses in Serbia and how robbery privatisation is being carried out. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28962	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28963	Dear Chairman, respected ministers and fellow MPs, we have had the opportunity to hear in detail today from our colleague Babić an analysis of practically the whole situation of the past and to realize that today we are not talking about privatisation, but we are talking about resolving the economic disaster in Serbia and solving the problems that have plagued us from the past, because without solving the past there is no future and that is what was the essence and in Mr Sertic's speech. What we need to say today as a summary is that, essentially, by adopting this proposal that you have made, Mr Sertic, we are primarily working to preserve the state, economic and national interests. Because, in Article 13, and few who wanted to talk about it, we are talking about companies that are located with their seats in the AP Kosovo territory, and we know that with this Article 13 is about entities that are exposed to the acquisition of property by the Privatisation Agency, i.e. the Kosovo Privatisation Agency, which has usurped Serbia's practical assets on Kosovo and Metohija territory. That's why we keep the state's interests with such a legal proposal. In addition, we preserve the so - called domestic economic activities. Why so-called? Because we keep talking about wanting to talk about business activities and the development of business activities of domestic enterprises, and somewhere we don't give them any incentive. This is the kind of one incentive to preserve and save what can be saved. After all, we also keep jobs, but we keep the real situation and the capital property that still exists through the real assessment that needs to be carried out, based on the changes and additions that are required, by the Ministry, that this real assessment is carried out within 30 days. This proposal gives us mechanisms and the Ministry of Industry and the Privatisation Agency, so that they can carry out all of this and simply complete the analysis carried out for each public enterprise, that they can, in a certain way, complete the procedure, in fact, break one illusion that companies like this can function in a sustainable way. Only what is healthy, will remain to live, and what cannot live in a sustainable way, will have to be restructured, but not the way that was done before, but simply by the principles of the market economy. This principle will hurt many, but it's all much less than how much it's hurt so far, when 400,000 jobs are gone by 2012. What we have to say is that we don't have to go back. So we can just go ahead. The years 2000 to 2014 are "the years eaten by locusts", when we talk about Serbia's economy and when we talk about social enterprises and enterprises in restructuring, and that's what you came here with and you gave us, with great evidence, that's how it is. The moment, a month and a half ago, when the Director of the Agency first came to report and when he gave us a real picture and a real picture of us standing with social enterprises and companies in restructuring, we were all in wonder, but it was essentially the truth that we had to face at some point. Thank you for really giving us a realistic review and information on what this government has to deal with, what it has to do to move forward, so that we can achieve these European integrations that we talk about so much in terms of overcoming steps by step and this time which has taken the practical process of ending privatisation, because every step is getting harder and harder. At the end of all these steps, simply, Serbia's economy will be able to live and will be able to deliver good results. She's been stagnating so far, she's had a lot of problems so far, she's lost, but with this ending, she'll just, after that, probably see the sun that all the countries in transition have passed on that European path. We also had opportunities from our neighbours now in the EU, both Romania and Bulgaria and by countries in the region to hear what the road is, that it is a difficult road, but that it simply must be passed. Thank you for showing great flexibility in this debate today and showing that you are open to every kind of idea, and I hope that through the amendments, which we will have the day after tomorrow in the debate, we will really come up with even better solutions. In the voting day, the SNS and the Parliament Club will surely support such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28964	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. I'm concluding a joint principled search. Continuing tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. by discussing the third item of the agenda. Thank you. [[The session was suspended 20.20 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28965	PRIMATE STENOGRAPHICAL TEXTS (unregulated and unauthorised) (The session began at 4:00 p.m. The session is chaired by Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28966	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, honourable ministers, your Excellency, I am opening the Third Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I called today's special session to address the National Assembly His Excellency Mr Serjo Matarella, President of the Republic of Italy, who is on an official visit to the Republic of Serbia. I am honored to welcome His Excellency, Mr Sergio Matarello, on behalf of the People's Messengers. I also welcome members of the official delegation of the Republic of Italy. I now ask His Excellency, the President of the Republic of Italy, Mr Sergio Matarello, to address us. Here you go, Excellency.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28967	Dear representatives of parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, the representatives of the diplomatic court, I would first of all like to express my gratitude for giving me the opportunity to address you. It is an honor and a pleasure to realize that I am the first President of the Republic of Italy to speak in this House, in this national parliament to represent the very centre of democratic life of Serbia. Your country has been determined for many years, determined and courageously taking a difficult and complex path, determined to choose its future and not hesitated in order to return to the place which it belongs to history in Europe. The opportunity given to me is of great importance because it gives me the opportunity to reaffirm once again the strong relations that connect Serbia with Italy, right here in front of you, in a place that is a symbol of national unity and where different souls, your young, dynamic countries, are expressed towards the future. Our two nations, our two countries are mostly friendly. I can just count on that friendship to build a common future, the next trace of the rebuilt harmony of our goals and ideals. Serbia's future as well as the future of Italy is in Europe where both of them, in their history, culture and values, belong. These are the reasons why I asked and decided to come to Belgrade just a few months after the start of my presidential term and that my first visit to the EU candidate would be achieved right here. I also accepted the need that the Italian government shares in its integrity that we should stress our country's strong and confident support on all the institutional, political, economic and cultural levels of all the most important aspirations of the Serbian people. At a historic moment when all the attention of Europe and the world is focused on serious crises and emergency situations, on the eastern borders of the EU and on the Mediterranean, I think we must take care of the balance that has not yet been fully achieved in the Balkans as well as the very important and complex forms, growth and the overall development of the democratic life that Serbia is conducting. Dear President, respected members of parliament, the EU's completion with full integration of the Balkans into its framework is undoubtedly a significant goal. We cannot, however, ignore the fact that the difficulties triggered by the long economic and financial crisis have prevented them from being in the way of the integration process, realistic and complex. They're not insurmountable after all. We need to get past them. They cannot, nor should they justify the steps backwards and the change in direction, but rather should encourage brave and far-sighted political decisions such as those which have been run by Belgrade's operations all these past years and even more decisively, in recent months. No matter how difficult the process stemming from Copenhagen's decisions can be made for us, it is the best guarantee for an equal entry into the Union, made up of equal Member States. Reasonable pragmatism and a clear strategic vision that characterizes the European choice of Serbia and other countries in the region can and should represent for all European peoples a clear sign of faith in the future, at this difficult moment. The European tendency that I feel is present and strong here reminds us of the value of the EU, that it is not derived from its economic dimension, but above all, from the fact that it is primarily a union of free peoples and democratic states. Freedom, peace and democracy are the foundations on which the future of our continent relies. These values were, unfortunately, threatened by dramatic events we never believed would ever be witnesses. Serbia, at a time when it could have been easy to listen to the sirens of the euro of skepticism and anachronous nationalism, was able to give an absolute advantage to its European path, thanks to the political evolution of significant proportions. Complicated reforms have also been realised, at the expense of great difficulties for the Serbian people and the launch of historical dialogue to normalise relations with Pristina, are a more obvious and concrete example. Efforts aimed at restoring deep ties that bring Serbia together with Europe are fully supported by the act of formally opening accession negotiations in early 2014. There is no doubt that Belgrade will be able to respond to expectations and that the EU response will be positive. We look with confidence at the tenacity, with great confidence we look at the tenacity and confidence that Serbia is following its European goal with all the intense, legislative reform and ever stronger, creating stronger and more useful networks with other countries of the region. On the other hand, I am convinced that it will overcome positive opinions on your country's capacities and potentials, its institutions and its citizens. This is what Italy strongly desires, which is based on solidarity and confident support that we give to Belgrade and the whole region along the European integration path. The strategic partnership between our countries, which is reflected in articulated co-operation, in key areas, such as the fight against corruption and crime, and in the broadest push to facilitate Belgrade's dialogue with other countries of the region, is a concrete confirmation. We believe that, as has already been the case with some other regions of Europe, Serbia and other countries in the region's integration, depends significantly on the ability to overcome, both ancient and modern divisions, to build the future of the region and to quench the hotspots of tensions that continue to simmer beneath the ashes of the difficult past and still live in the memories of many. 3/1 DJ/IR 16.10 – 16.15 Thanks to this belief, we launched the "Friends of Serbia" initiative as trilateral meetings and coordination between Rome, Belgrade and Tirana. We are taking part in our confident contribution to the most important historical initiatives of the dialogue, above all in the Central European Initiative and the Adriatic-Ionian initiative, which has won a European strategy for the region. Mr. Prime Minister, Prime Minister, representatives of the diplomatic court, the European path will not be easy, but it is a path that leads to progress. Italy's intention is not to feed false expectations. We are aware of the time limits the commission recently cited. We must do so so that it does not turn into a long break or a stalemate, which could cause unpopularity, i.e. a change of attitude towards Europe in candidate countries, as well as to question the real perspective of integration, in order to have a positive impact of integration, it needs to be mild and how fast and able to experience historical changes in advance. I am convinced that Serbia has taken the opportunity to consolidate the results already achieved in the coming years and to further accelerate the process of reforms that have begun so well, starting from the rule of law, to the management of the legal system, which is the key points of every democratic system and aspects at which the most attention is maintained, the EU institution. I assure you that the support of Italy, which more than everyone wants Serbia in the European family, will not be left behind. Our country believes that strengthening the EU and coronating the dream about the political community of EU founders is closely related to the completion of the Western Balkans integration process. Only in this way will it be possible to definitely overcome so-called. "history delay" and the unification of the continent within the sphere of stability and democracy for all its peoples. In 1941, one of the founders of EU Altiero Spinelli wrote about the need to achieve European unity – a path that needs to be crossed is neither easy nor safe, but it must be crossed and it will be so. Today it is Serbia's turn to follow the path that he pointed to Spinelli. Italy is ready to be there for her on that road. Dear President, honourable members of parliament, yesterday in the area of Fury Venice Giulia, I attended a simple but solemn ceremony in honor of 100 years of Italy's entry into World War I. Since then, Europe has experienced wars, the last to take place right in the Balkans, and today we are worried about tensions at the EU's eastern border and relations with a country that is of great importance to our future, the Russian Federation. Today, stability and peace on the continent is threatened by major crises at the southern borders, crises created in Africa and the Middle East. Themes and concerns are common for Serbia and Italy, which both have a stable system of international relations. Europe must successfully approach these challenges, but it will only be able to do so if it shows connection, unity of intent and solidarity. Today's Serbia is an integral part of this collective effort. Serbia has become a country of peace and stability for the international community. This shows, among other things, the numerous participation of Serbian soldiers in international peace missions and the chairmanship of the security and co-operation organisation in Europe, just as the organisation was invited to play a significant role in establishing security and peace conditions in Ukraine. Belgrade is accomplishing its mission with caution and balance, as a mature country fully aware of its international responsibilities. We're grateful to you for that. Dear President, honourable members of parliament, the roots of our mutual relations lead to origin from the history of the ages. Serbia is the cradle of 17 Roman emperors, including the figure of Emperor Constantine. The country's Roman presence left traces in magnificent imperial cities, including Belgrade itself, whose importance is the intersection in Europe. Back in those days, our history has been constantly intertwined. In 1697, the skill and courage of Eugen Savoy stopped Ottoman suffrage at the gates of Sainta in today's Vojvodina. There are many examples of exchanges of experiences in Balkan independence movements in the 19th century. One example is the establishment in 1866 of Macini's young Italy of the Youth United Serbia movement. And in the darkest moments of Europe's Italy, Serbia and Italy were the shots to write down the heroic pages of brotherhood and closeness, which will forever be recorded in the collective memory of our two countries. I also think of thousands of Serbs who fled the central forces' army and were rescued and sheltered on Italian Navy ships in late 1915 and early 1916. Today, the armed forces of our two countries are participating jointly in a number of peacekeeping missions, primarily in the framework of UNIFIL, where 177 Serb soldiers are present as a valuable and appreciated contribution to stability in Lebanon. Entrepreneurship and culture are pillars of our friendship today and they provide a constant new boost to our relations. Our companies believe in achieving the future model here in Serbia and Serbia and Italy, a model of enterprises that successfully connects profit logic with social investment logic, employment and education. Our companies invest in your lively energy of young people, confident of an economic and legal model that promotes entrepreneurship, and primarily believes in the future of your country. In addition to the economic relationships that are multiplied, there is an exceptional cultural relation that many young people who study at our universities and speak Italian clearly feel. Dear President, honourable MPs, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to conclude my presentation on the 40th anniversary of the death quote by Ivo Andric, the laureate of the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1961, a free quote: "Everywhere in the world, wherever my thought has passed or stopped, she has found faithful and working bridges as an eternal and unsatisfactory man's desire to combine, reconcile, sit everything that lies before our spirit, our eyes, our feet, so that there may be no division, conflict and separation." I want to repeat these words, because this is the future for which the Serbian people and the Balkan people and the whole of Europe, above all, and the Italian people. Here at the mouth of Sava in the Danube are the forces of a thousand years of history, but also the currents of the future. I'm sure Belgrade will be able to leave a mark on them. On the other side of the Adriatic Sea, which today does not share, but connects our two countries in a unique pursuit of peace, freedom and progress, Italy will be with you as a great and honest friend.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-25-0.u28968	Dear President, I thank you on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for your address. I conclude the third special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the ninth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Stefana Miladinović and Zlata Djeric. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Hope Lazic.
