ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda, exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament shall put their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 149 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Branko Ružić, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Djorđa Cabarkapa and Ljiljana Kosorić. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in the agenda as soon as possible, as set out in the Government’s request. You were presented the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Immunity Issues has shown that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2015, held on 26 and 28 January 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – no one, with abstention – has voted nine MPs from the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you were able to see for the session of the 7th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, the following Dn e d: 1st Proposal for a Law on Weapons and Ammunition; 2nd Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Crime Protection; 3. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Reading; 4. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Co-operation in the fight against Crime; 5. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Institutional Framework of the Initiative for Prevention and Preparedness in the Case of the Republic of Serbia before the South-Eastern European Union (2013); 6. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia (Re-Ruum) to the Republic of Serbia (Re) to the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia (the Republic of Serbia). National MP Mira Petrovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Weapons and Ammunition; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fire Protection, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Readmission; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Belarus on Co-operation in the fight against Crime; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for Prevention and preparedness in the case of catastrophes for the region of the South East Europe (2013); Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary on Co-operation and Mutual Assistance of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for the Law of the Republic of Serbia (Crubl) of Serbia (Crubl) of the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia (Rrub. Does MP Mira Petrovic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 17 MPs of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Interior Minister Milorad Todorovic, Interior Ministry Secretary Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of Interior and Chiefs of Staff of the Interior Ministry, Zorica Lončar Kasalica, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, Ivan Zarev, Head of the Department of Prevention at the Department of Emergency Affairs of the Interior and Miljko Simovic, Assistant Chief of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on Weapons and Amending; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Fire, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Reading; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Co-operation in the fight against Crime; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum on Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for the Prevention and preparedness in the case of catastrophes for the region of the South East Europe (2013); Proposal for a Law on the Opening of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia (Republic Republic of Serbia). Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome Mr. Branko Miladinović, the father of Tamara, who is currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery and please welcome the guest with applause. Does the words of Law Proposer Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Interior Minister want? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22317	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the applicable Law on Arms and Ammunition was passed in 1992. So it's been more than two decades since the law is in force and during all the years that are behind us, with a different environment, has made the weapons easily available, the atmosphere of uncertainty that one part of the citizens can obtain legally and illegally, some for personal safety, some for other reasons. At the same time, with the increase in the number of weapons in legal possession, there has been an increase in the amount of illegally owned weapons, for which there is no adequate record at all and estimated to be between 200 and 900,000 pieces. This difference in judgment in this kind of beauty of assessment shows you that there is a lot that we have to do in the future to solve this problem. In recent years, we have witnessed a number of tragic incidents in which weapons have been used, primarily in illegal possessions, and a small number in the legal one, and these facts pose an obstacle to the creation of a safe environment, promote crime and have a negative impact on social development. The Republic of Serbia is determined to define aspects of arms control, parts of it and ammunition at all levels. This resolution has been confirmed by the accession of the United Nations Programme for the Prevention, Prevention, Elimination of Arms Trade, as well as the United Nations Protocol on Firearms, which has created certain international obligations regarding the implementation of the firearms control measure and the applicable law does not constitute a full regulatory framework for the fulfilment of these obligations, and because of changes in social opportunities does not reflect the real needs in the control of civilian weapons possession. The accession process to the European Union and the opening of negotiations in Chapter 24 necessarily entails and the harmonisation of national rules with relevant European Union regulations, which also include legal regulations on the procurement, holding and carrying of arms. The strategy to control firearms and light weapons in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2010 to 2015 aimed at eight specifically requires the adoption of this law as one of the most important instruments. The proposal for a law on arms and ammunition is therefore in line with the Council Directive in the control of the supply and possession of weapons 47791-512008 of the European Parliament amending Council Directive 477/91 on the control of the supply of weapons. The existing normative solutions governing this area have been carefully examined, which differ significantly from those prescribed by the European Directives, which has led to the development of a completely new text of the law, not only on amendments and additions to the existing one. The passing of this law will achieve two goals. First, the law will allow effective control of the possession and transport of weapons, thus preventing its abuses and improving the security of Serbian citizens. Secondly, with legal and safe weapons owners, they will be allowed to possess and use it in a law of permitted purpose, hunting, sports, collectorship and self-defense. The first objective is to strengthen the conditions for weapons possession. In addition to those that existed in the previous law, two new -- health skills, which previously existed as a possibility only in the acquisition of weapons but not if someone already owns it, and a legitimate reason for having weapons, which is the newspaper in relation to previous legal solutions. A person's medical ability to hold and carry weapons shall be demonstrated when applying for the supply of weapons, and shall be subject to verification every five years. An obligation has been established to exchange information which is essential for determining the medical capacity between the doctor and the competent authority of the internal affairs. Sublegal acts by the minister responsible for health affairs will help to regulate the conditions that persons must meet with regard to health skills, as well as the conditions to be met by a healthcare institution to carry out these checks. Justified grounds for weapons possession, as a condition for its acquisition, are proven in membership in a sports shooting organisation, for sports weapons, of course, then a hunting ticket for hunting weapons and evidence of endangered security for personal security weapons. The introduction of this institute into the provisions of the law is a direct consequence of the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the legislation of the European Union. In addition, the police were left with the possibility of banning the possession of weapons when they were established to assess that the owner might abuse it. The law also provides for stricter punishment for abuses and unconscious relations to weapons. The criminal policy has been tightened by the fact that any failure to act provided for by the provisions of this law is subject to criminal penalties, with the possibility of imposing a safeguard measure of confiscation of arms and ammunition. The possibility of providing weapons at the service compared to an earlier solution has been narrowed down, as the owner of the weapon is required to be present during the proceedings. Overall, this draft increased the owner's responsibility for the weapons he owns. The second objective is achieved through giving privileged status to registered sports shooters and collectors who in practice proved to be the most conscious among gun owners. This is seen in the release of weapons handling training and giving opportunity and ammunition to members of shooting and hunting organisations. Easier conditions for the supply of weapons and ammunition to collectors have been prescribed, while reducing administrative procedures for this category of gun owners. For all gun owners, the limit on the amount of ammunition that can be obtained, which is the standard in all European Union countries, has been abolished. Important newspapers also represent a collection license that is not time-limited and allows for multiple pieces of weapons, thus simplifying the procurement of arms to hunters, sports shooters and similar categories of persons. This will also relieve the state authorities, as this will result in a reduction in the number of requests for arms procurement. The new weapons class, incapacitated, allows citizens to combine certain pieces of weapons for them, regardless of the fulfilment of the conditions for obtaining a licence, or the issue of a gun list, with the application of the competent national authority. The new law also allows foreigners who do not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Serbia to obtain weapons from category B and C, based on the authorisation to obtain and export weapons, and how to obtain weapons from members of diplomatic and consular offices. The paper also presents the already mentioned possibility that shooting and hunting organisations will collect ammunition for their own purposes. Also, the important newspaper provided for by this law is the issue of an arms list, as a biometric document with a limited period of validity. A large amount of weapons in Serbia in illegal possession requires state plans and more projects than repressive police activities. In comparative and domestic practice, actions of legalisation and handing over arms have proved to be the most effective measures to reduce the quantity of this weapon. Five legalisation procedures have been conducted between 1992 and today. The last legalisation was carried out in 2007, when a total of 8,455 pieces of different weapons were handed over, while 47,582 pieces of different weapons were handed over in the legalisation process in 2003. For example, police during the year reveal between 1,000 and 1,500 pieces of weapons in illegal possessions, which means that once legalisation achieves multiple major effects than regular work in confiscation of illegal weapons. That is why the legalisation of weapons is regulated by this law, which empowers the Minister of the Interior to periodically, when it requires reasons for the preservation of the security of citizens and public peace, call for the legalisation of weapons. The law will provide for, in one of its members, also legalisation that will take place within three months of the adoption of the law. The proposed law on arms and ammunition contains solutions that are in line with European Union regulations, and its application will contribute to increasing the level of security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore urge you to support this law and help together to increase security for all citizens of Serbia. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, this law, in its current form, was adopted as a system law in 2009. This is a law governing the issue of fire protection, the obligation of state authorities, the authorities of the autonomous province, units of local self-government, companies and other legal and natural persons. The period of these five years has been sufficient to assess all the shortcomings in certain solutions and possibilities for improving it, in order to achieve the goals which were the reason for its adoption in 2009. Unfortunately, there were some of the most difficult warnings that pointed to the need to change existing legal solutions. A tragic event in the new Sad discotheque "Contrast", which took six young lives, was expressed through "Tamara's Law", which followed, which had the most powerful impact on changing the law and the direction in which it should go when it comes to legal solutions. From the point of view of fire protection, this initiative, therefore, the establishment of more effective control in the area of the security of the facilities, primarily in which catering activities are carried out, but also in which more people are gathered because of the work carried out in them, this initiative aims to ensure that those activities are carried out exclusively in the facilities for which the consent of the MUP has been obtained with regard to the implementation of the fire protection measures, in accordance with the objective of the facility. The competent labour lines of the Ministry of the Interior have made huge efforts to meet the objective of this initiative by adopting this law, and the proposed amendments and additions to the Law are defined by public purpose facilities, establishing a legal basis for the regulation of minimum technical conditions from the aspect of fire protection to the proper purpose of the facilities, then the basis for the ban on doing certain work in the facility unless the conditions for the safe evacuation of people from the facilities are secured until such dangers have been lifted. The bill also brings other newspapers. Since the entry into force of the Protection Act, the Ministry's fires have faced problems caused by the insufficient accuracy of its provisions. Another drawback was the possibility of adopting certain sublegal acts which turned out to be necessary but without an adequate legal basis on the basis of which they would be brought. These problems have not only affected the work of state authorities but have contributed to the creation of an insufficiently clear legal environment for legal and natural persons who are directly affected by such a situation. The interior ministry has held a public debate in all major cities of the Republic of Serbia when drawing up the bill. The proposals and suggestions submitted during the public debate were aimed at improving the proposal for the text of the law and which are in the spirit of the concept on which it is based, accepted and included in the text of the bill. I would not like to give you all individual solutions, you have that in the law that is before you, but I would like to draw some solutions which will be of interest and importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would point out that these amendments to the laws aim to facilitate the process of obtaining agreement on fire protection measures by defining the basic standards when designing buildings as essential requirements, and by allowing entities which are obliged to comply with the provisions of the law to obtain consent to be given wider opportunities in the way of designing and building, as they allow the application of the rules and standards adopted in EU countries. This way of regulating the construction of fire protection will affect the promotion of construction, as the cost of increasing the investment to apply the fire protection measure will be appropriate to its scope. This bill brings amendments to the organisation and mode of work of fire rescue units since the normative framework for their regulation is based on a sublegal act dating back to 30 years ago, and it is too much to say that these are far-reaching solutions. This bill introduces an obligation to update and harmonise fire protection plans with time-related changes, which has not been the case so far. The explicit obligations of fire protection entities are prescribed to apply the prescribed measures against fires and explosions, the education of children and students in the area of fire protection and other changes aimed at creating a safer and safer environment from the aspect of fire protection for all people. Finally, I would like to point out that this bill is in line with the Fire Protection Strategy for the period 2012 to 2017, and particularly when drawing up the drafts, it took into account the objectives and strategies of implementing preventive fire protection measures, in urban, spatial, regulatory plans, which would provide an ambience favourable to investment, as the investor would have all the necessary information on the implementation of the fire protection measures when making investment decisions as a prerequisite. Also, the objectives of the strategy relating to improving fire protection through preventive action through the application of measures on the security of all entities are supported by amendments and additions to the Law. Once again, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments to the Fire Protection Act will create the necessary and regulatory conditions for more effective implementation of fire protection, which will contribute to the overall increase in the safety of all citizens in this area, which is why I call on you to support the amendments and additions of this law in the voting day. As for the agreements that are on the agenda today, I'll be on my way. Today, we have seven agreements that have been reached, or signed in the previous two years, before us the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission signed on 16 October 2014 with the aim of reducing the level of illegal migration, which you can see is a completely current topic throughout the world and allowing the uninterrupted return of illegal migrants from the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation and improving bilateral police co-operation with the Russian Federation. Confirmation of this Agreement will age an effective formal legal mechanism in order to prevent illegal migration and will enable organised, reciprocal and complete return of persons, nationals of the parties, third-country nationals and stateless persons in an irregular situation in the territory of the other country. Accordingly, the agreement regulates the surrender and acceptance of foreign citizens, proof of "received facie", proof of citizenship, readmission of third-country nationals, persons without citizenship, deadlines, transit, data protection, costs and the like. At the same time as signing this agreement, a protocol on its implementation has been signed. Then, before us today, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Belarus on co-operation in the fight against crime, signed in Minsk on 12 March 2013 as a result of the mutual will of the two states to directly co-operate through their competent authorities in the fight against crime with the international element of particularly organised crime and terrorism. The signing of this Agreement improves co-operation in the fight against international organised crime, terrorism, illegal trafficking of intoxicating drugs, as well as other types of criminal offences which could have been committed in the territory of the States of the parties or with the participation of nationals of foreign Contracting Parties. In accordance with the agreement, the competent authorities of the two countries shall carry out co-operation through the fulfilment of requests for assistance, planning and implementation of coordination measures, the detection of organised criminal groups and individuals engaged in criminal activity, the exchange of operational reference, criminal and other information, the exchange of information on the offences committed and the criminal offences to be prepared, as well as the taking of measures necessary to prevent them. Confirmation of this agreement will contribute to a higher level of security, the security of Serbian citizens through intensive co-operation of prevention and repression and detection and investigation of criminal offences. Today, you and the Memorandum of Understanding in the institutional framework of an initiative to prevent and prepare disasters for the Southeast European region signed in Sarajevo on 28 November 2013. The initiative was joined by eleven countries, Albania, BiH, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, Turkey. The conclusion of this memorandum was necessary for the follow-up of the initiative, as its previous founding act signed in 2007 expired in 2014. The signing of the memorandum allows for the preservation of the only regional entity exclusively involved in the protection of disasters and bringing together Southeast European countries. The main objective of the initiative is to contribute to building institutional capacity for disaster management in order to improve disaster prevention and preparedness in Southeast European countries. The initiative supports countries in the South East European region in efforts to further develop disaster prevention and preparedness through joint approach and co-operation with all relevant international organisations and bodies, especially EU civil protection mechanisms. Then, the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Hungary on co-operation and mutual assistance in the event of disasters signed in Bucharest on 17 October 2013. According to this agreement, the parties cooperate in preventing natural and caused disasters and providing mutual assistance in the event of disasters. The competent authorities of the Contracting Parties shall cooperate by providing mutual assistance, providing the equipment needed to prevent disasters, exchanging information on the sources of dangers that can cause disasters and their consequences, determining the causes of disasters and assessing their consequences. Then organize and conduct joint exercises and exchange experiences. I would like to point out that agreements on disaster co-operation are strengthened and improved both bilateral and multilateral co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with countries in the region in the prevention and occurrence of disasters, but also providing mutual assistance in the event of these disasters happening, which our country unfortunately had the opportunity to see in May 2014, but we are also ready to provide all our partners with quality assistance from the field of prevention and assistance in disasters. Then, three agreements I'm going to talk about as one, since it's about opening different border crossings, but motivated by achieving the same goal. The three agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of Romania are opening border crossings, the international crossings "Jasa Tomic-Fenj", then "Vrbica – Valjkan" and "Nakovo-Lunga", at the Serbian-Roman state border were signed primarily to increase the level of security of the state border, and, of course, to facilitate the situation of the population, their daily life, of course through the deepening of Kurdish and economic relations. The state of security of this border can be regarded as good, but the very configuration of the terrain and the existence of alternative routes leading to populated places in Romania can be characterised as a potential benefit for the attempt of illegal crossings and the possibility of some of the types of cross-border crime. At the watery part of the state border, there is also the possibility of taking various types of cross-border crime, particularly related to smuggling, which also conditioned the signing of the agreement. I would also like to point out that the EU is constantly encouraging the idea of opening up as many border crossings as possible, and that is why when these international border crossings are permanently opened, the republics of Serbia and the Republic of Romania will also be able to apply to obtain funds from IPA funds in order to modernise the transitions to EU standards. In the end, I would like to point out that these border crossings have already been provisionally opened on 8 November 2014 by a decision of the Government. By adopting the National Assembly, by adopting these agreements, they will begin at full capacity to work. Finally, by respecting the above-mentioned reasons and objectives that will be achieved by confirming this agreement, I urge you to support and vote in favour of this agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22318	Thank you. The word is Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22319	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests from the MUP, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic. People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has been prevented today, and I think respected gentlemen, for 17 times in a row, to enter the Great Hall of the National Assembly and participate in our debate on the bill's proposals. I remind, above all, the Members of the People, for whom I now note that they are very interested in this topic and this violation of the Rules of Procedure, that one of us here, MP Zoran Zivkovic, at the 11th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly, is given a measure of distance from the session and that, to this day, gentlemen, gentlemen, Mr Zivkovic is not given a solution, a decision or any act of punishment, gentlemen. I remind, first of all, the MPs here that every employee, for example, in one firm, gets a solution or a decision on punishment for the committed, for example, a disciplinary offense, and one MP respected gentlemen can only be prohibited from participating in the work of the National Assembly without any act. I believe that here we should oppose such practice, that each of us resist such practice and propose to the president of the National Assembly of Mrs. Gojkovic, to invite Mr. Zivkovic at this moment, to tell him to return to the large hall of the National Assembly, so that the honored gentlemen here today will participate in the debate and contribute to the quality of our debate, respected Members of the People's Parliament, honored guests and presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22320	Thank you. The same breach of the Rules of Procedure, for days, so I have nothing special to say to you except that the breach of the Rules of Procedure must be done directly. You're showing me the door. So I don't have any attitude towards the door behind you as President of Parliament. The only new thing you have said is that it is my duty to invite MP Zoran Zivkovic, he will receive a regular call for a session when the sentence that was given at the session expires when he brutally offended the dignity of parliament and colleagues who chaired here, because he addressed them with the words "stodk one", it cannot be deleted. So we have a few more working days and we will be happy to send it, as we are sending calls for all 250 MPs. Do you want us to vote on this injury? (No) I thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, article 107 and Article 113. I didn't even hear what member advertised. It seems to me that he has not advertised any violations of the Rules of Procedure, and he has violated the dignity of the National Assembly in my opinion because the provisions of Article 113 and in my opinion are dragonic, but it should be said that they are inherited. He forgot to say that the party on whose list he has chosen has prescribed such a dragon measure to the Rules of Procedure and, as he says, put freedom of speech at risk. I can't believe that a professor, academically honest, forgets this fact and is on the list of parties that have brought this measure, not only brought it, but implemented it. I must remind myself that in one of the previous calls when this provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was applied that not only did this regulation come, but they respected it, implemented it, by throwing out an entire parliamentary group. It seems to me that there was only one MP of the seventy-somethings left to count. So I can't understand that someone 17 times advertises the provision of the Rules of Procedure brought by a group, or a party on whose list he was elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22322	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or presidents of parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22323	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present our opinion on several proposed laws on behalf of the SVM Group. I'll start with the Fire Protection Act. The current law, as we heard in the opening statement, was adopted by the Honorable Minister at the end of 2009 at the end of December. It actually took effect in mid-2010. The need for these changes and additions that are currently ahead of us was initiated after an analysis of the existing normative framework, suggestions and suggestions submitted by parents who were killed in the fire in Novi Sad at the “Contrast” discotheque and the professional public, all in order to increase the degree of security in public purpose facilities from the aspect of fire protection. The essence of these proposed changes is to establish more effective control in the area of the safety of the facilities, primarily those in which catering works are carried out. In order to ensure that those activities are carried out exclusively in those facilities for which the approval of the MUP has been obtained with regard to the implementation of the fire protection measures in accordance with the purpose of those facilities, they aim to protect against the fire. The distinguished, present gentleman, journalist Tamara Miladanovic's father, one of the six fire victims at the newly-sad discotheque "Contrast", has initiated changes to the rules that should prevent similar deaths of children and young people in the future. It is about additional safety regulations in facilities where an extremely large number of people are gathered. The proposed amendments and additions of the Fire Protection Act have been made to the obligation to agree on the measures implemented to protect against fire transferred from the former authority of the administration responsible for issuing the use of the permit, now to the investor himself, or to the owner of the facility. As we've heard, it's a precise way of proving that a particular object is suitable for use. That evidence has to be provided in the procedure, raising the level of legal certainty of parties in the procedure. For example, the danger of both the outbreak and the spread of the fire, the lack of conditions for a safe, rapid evacuation of a large number of people is one of the grounds for banning certain work in the facility now. The authority responsible for issuing the use of the authorisation cannot issue a valid authorisation unless consent has been obtained in designing and building facilities such as hotels, departments, shopping centres, cinemas, children's institutions, schools, higher school institutions, cultural institutions, health institutions, sports halls, concert halls and high facilities etc. The inspector may order a ban on doing certain work in the facility, part of the facility or space, if they are clearly threatened with the outbreak and spread of the fire or as I mentioned, which is extremely significant if the conditions for rapid evacuation and safe evacuation of a large number of people are not provided. The SVM parliamentary group agrees with the so-called SVM. the Tamara Act initiative, i.e. with the proposed amendments and additions. We feel it is necessary to do everything in the future to avoid such and similar tragedies and to really be a clear responsibility for all the authorities. The next bill I will discuss is an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Hungary on co-operation and mutual assistance in the event of disasters. It is very important that we confirm this agreement in voting day. It was signed in late October as early as 2013. On this occasion, I would like to remind us all and to point out that when last spring, when unfortunately Serbia was hit by unremembered floods, a natural disaster, Hungary was indeed among the first countries to respond to a call for assistance from the Republic of Serbia. From this neighboring country, help has come very quickly, both in terms of equipment, boats, vehicles, rescue helicopters, and the very people, or the savior. In Hungary, humanitarian aid was also collected, which was then delivered to the most vulnerable. The Hungarian government therefore responded immediately to the call by the Republic of Serbia for assistance and a team of Hungary's national rescue operations organisation helped rescue efforts in floods affected by Serbia. The Union of Vojvodina Hungarians supports the confirmation of this Agreement, first because it contributes to strengthening and deepening the friendly relations between the two countries, between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary, preventing disasters. Cooperation to provide mutual assistance in their case is of common interest, of interest to both countries, in order to prevent or, once they have happened, to manage them in the most efficient way. The exchange of information on sources of dangers that can cause disasters and their consequences, as well as the exchange of experience in predicting, preventing and assessing disasters and exchanges of lessons learned is extremely important. It is therefore necessary to encourage all forms of mutual co-operation between the competent authorities, both government and non-governmental organisations, in order to achieve the objectives of this Agreement. The conclusion of this agreement is the result of the parties' will to provide mutual assistance in the event of disasters and will allow its entry into force. Furthermore, the agreement or memorandum on understanding and the institutional framework of the prevention and preparedness initiative in the event of disasters for the Southeast European region, which was also signed at the end of 2013. We heard in the opening statement that the states are signatories to Albania, BiH, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and Turkey. It is clear that the Memorandum of Understanding is the result of the alignment of the views of 11 countries on issues governing its functioning. The agreement is the only regional mechanism, an entity that deals exclusively with the issue of disaster protection and which brings together Southeast European countries. It is important to strengthen regional co-operation and agreements in the area of disaster management, but also to improve co-operation in the light of EU enlargement and the Euro-Atlantic integration process. This Agreement facilitates the exchange of information in the field of prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters. This Agreement is already being applied temporarily and it is good that we now confirm it, because, as we heard, the previous agreement of the same name, which was signed in 2007 actually expired at the end of 2014. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on readmission, signed in Belgrade, was confirmed in mid-October. Speaking of reading, and the issue of illegal migrants is very current, especially in the last few weeks, I would like to commend this occasion on the efforts of the interior ministry, including Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic himself, in resolving this issue. I would also like to commend the agreement between the police of Serbia, Hungary, Germany and Austria on greater co-operation, when it comes to preventing illegal migration, and what will begin at the Serbian-Hungarian border soon, in addition to the regular police force, according to your statements, Mr. Minister, on the watch and on the police of general jurisdiction, and all to protect the green part of the border. It is good that with colleagues from Germany, Austria and Hungary it is agreed that experts from these countries provide assistance both to the Serbian and Hungarian police, to prevent illegal migration, and to provide the necessary technical resources. Our parliamentary group also welcomes co-operation in the area of the criminal police, in order to detect smugglers. We are aware that the police of no state can solve these problems on their own and are unable to solve them on their own. Serbia, Hungary, Austria and Germany alone can, with the help of four countries' expert teams, achieve a good result in the future and contribute to the greater security of all our citizens. Our parliamentary group considers it a very significant improvement in co-operation in the area of combating illegal migration, as well as the harmonisation of principles and norms that determine the return process, acceptance and surrender of persons whose stay in the territory of the state is contrary to the applicable rules for the entry and stay of foreign nationals, as well as persons without citizenship. We find it extremely important to create an efficient formal legal mechanism to prevent these illegal migrations, as well as to enable organised, reciprocal and institutionalised return of persons in an irregular situation in the territory of another country. For the very end of my presentation, I will mention as someone from Banat the importance of confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of international border crossings "Jasa Tomic – Fenj", "Vrbica-Valkan", or "Nakovo-Lunga". It is noteworthy that road crossings for international traffic are also formally opened. They will be open to the traffic of pedestrians, cyclists and vehicles every day in our time of 7-19 hours. Opening these international border crossings at the Serbian-Romanian state border will contribute to better cross-border co-operation, and of course, it will also facilitate the daily lives of citizens and the population themselves through deepening both economic and cultural relations. The possibility of economic exchange and perhaps employment will be opened. When these border crossings are formally opened, it will be possible, as we heard, for the Republic of Serbia and Romania to apply together to obtain funds from the IPA funds, so that these border crossings are truly modernised and adapted to EU standards. To conclude, our parliamentary group, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians, will also support the proposed laws and the approval of the agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22324	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22325	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Minister Stefanovic, respected representatives of the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, even though I was the bearer of the badge "Appropriate soldier" when I served JNA 1985 and 1986 and although I was in the infantry and in charge of the automatic rifle and was a good shooter and engaged in sports shooting, I must admit that I am not some big supporter of carrying and using weapons. I've always advocated the use of force of arguments rather than arguments of strength. I believe that the main weapon of every man should first be his mind, his actions, the words he utters. It was always a close line from the Scriptures that swords should be melted into plowshares. But, of course, I understand the need to use weapons rationally, primarily for self-defense and for some other reasons, such as collectorship or some kind of sports motif. The SPO-DHSS parliamentary group, which I belong to, is aware of the need to regulate this very important area of procurement, possession, carrying and using weapons and ammunition, and we believe that there is a very good bill ahead of us. That is why all praise to those who participated in his preparation, and above all to Minister Stefanovic. We believe that by applying this law, all of us, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will be safer, because the weapons that have so far been illegally in the hands of people who have files and who have had health problems, or who have misused these weapons, will cease to be used in the present way. This is very important and I will remind you of certain abuses due to the indetermination of previous laws, because of the abuse of the provisions of these laws. For example, over the past 25 years, members and supporters of the SPO, whose member I am, have been the target of those most often illegally owned by weapons, which they have moved on to their political and ideological insinuators. I will remind you that on the eve of the first multilateral elections in 1990, a member of the SP Slobodan Ivanovic was killed in the village of Dubnica near Vranja on the night between December 5th and 6th. Here, Dragan Nikolic, a lawyer from Vranj, can testify that an innocent man who participated in the election campaign, who glued the poster, has been killed, that his killer has abused that fact and the innocent man is deprived of life. And on March 9th, at the time of the protest for freedom of the media, organised by the SPO, in the street of Prince Milos, at the London restaurant, a gun shot was shot to death by a SPO fellow, Branivoje Milinovic, who did not endanger anyone, and to this day, no people who fired in his direction were discovered, not found, nor was he prosecuted, nor did he who committed the murder of this young man. Another SPO sympathiser, a member of the MUP Milorad Nikolic, was killed on June 1st 1993 at the staircase of the building where we are. That executioner has never been found and punished, and we have repeatedly demanded that it be done. At that time there was an organized demonstration of violence against one SPO MP in this particular building where we are. And on December 24, 1996, a serious crime took place. It was then organized, so-called. counter-mitting at the time of the ruling party, so in the main Belgrade street in Knez Mihajlovo, ahead of the SPPO, a badly wounded member of the SPI, Ivica Lazovic. Ivica Lazovic happily survived, but remained a permanent, lifelong disabled, severely disabled, family man. He was shot with a gun from close-up to his head from Zivko Sandic, who was a member of the SPS from Vrbasa at the time. Should I remind myself that SPO President Vuk Draskovic was also shot from firearms, that it happened on June 15th 2000 in Budva, that Draskovic was then hit with bullets in the head, that he was also lucky to survive, but it was a classic example of state terrorism, because the leader of the opposition at the time was a target? All this was done at the order of the then state summit so that Vuk Draskovic would be removed from the life scene and from the political scene, as he was a political rival for Slobodan Milosevic and his regime. I want to believe that applying this law will prevent and prevent these and similar cases, that innocent people will no longer be killed, that they will be the object of the attack just because they thought otherwise or that they have engaged politically. We, I say on behalf of MPs and MPs DHSS and SPS, will support this law because it will make it easier for all those who really need it, who use it usefully and securely. So it will be possible, which is a good solution, privileged status for registered sports shooters and collectors. They, as the minister pointed out, are being released from training, have the ability to collect ammunition, are facilitated by the supply of the same weapons and ammunition for collectors' purposes, are being abolished for all gun owners a restriction on the amount of ammunition they can obtain, which is in line with comparable solutions in, above all, European legislation. So this law, which we are discussing today, is elaborated in a detailed way by the acquisition, use, wear, storage and other activities related to weapons and ammunition by both natural and legal persons. The law, which we particularly welcome, is that those specificities that are characteristic of our country, for this climate, and for the solutions that have proved to be really good in parallel law, above all in EU legislation. What we want to praise, to point out is that this bill came about by having a public debate in most of the cities of Serbia, Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, Pancheva and other places, so that interested people could make their proposals, their objections and in the process of preparing this law that regulates the area of possession, carrying arms. The MUP, in co-operation with the National Association for Weapons, then enabled many participants, representatives of relevant state authorities, the NGO sector, prominent experts, representatives of sports and hunting alliances to make very useful suggestions and remarks that are incorporated into the provisions of the law. Otherwise, the problem of weapons and ammunition abuse is expressed in our society, and it is indeed worrying that the data listed in the argument is in the possession of citizens between two and as many as 900,000 pieces of illegally owned weapons. We know what tradition in these areas is about weapons. We are aware of the fact that we went through the wars of the 1990s, that there was a sense of insecurity, that there was unregulated legislation. We are witnessing that the entire arsenals of illegal weapons are often discovered. There's only one Arsenal football club in England, and even some fan associations own real arms arsenals. We are witnessing that police actions contain not only guns, but also so-called guns. long pipes, machine guns, bomb explosives, and even mortars and hand-to-hand and rocket launchers. We believe that the adoption and application of this law will allow effective control of the possession of arms traffic, prevent previous abuses, and that what is most important will increase the security of Serbian citizens. Specially good are those solutions relating to tightening the conditions for weapons possession, in which the minister spoke very well and arguedly. He cited what restrictions were imposed on the acquisition of weapons, relating to health skills, for justifiable reasons that the MUP can assess when it considers the owner of the weapon to be able to abuse. Of course, a good solution is that the law provides for the issue of an armed list as a biometric document. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, I would like to point out that MPs and MPs of the DHSS and the SP will support their votes of adoption and this law, as it provides for an increase in the degree of security, more effective control of public purposes facilities, primarily catering and facilities where more people are gathered, and in line with a well-known initiative in our public, called Tamara Law, because we believe that the amendments to this law introduce provisions to increase the safety of visitors of public objects, especially children, youth, but also all citizens of Serbia who are in such facilities, because, according to the provisions of this law, no public object of the main purpose can be registered unless evidence has been provided that fire protection has been done. The proposed legal solutions allow the facility to be opened only after all the necessary certificates, documents, consent, permits have been obtained, and not only after the fire protection has been provided. The paper in the law is a restriction on the number of people in the facilities per square metre of space, so if there are more people in the building than the allowed number, responsibility is borne by the owner, i.e. the tenant of such a place. The good solution is that the evac routes, according to these proposed provisions, will have to be mandatory, which will have to be made of non-flammable materials. So, every facility will have alarm systems installed, fire alerts, quick reaction systems in such cases. We honestly believe that the law will be a turning point in security in this area and that inspectors are securely, according to the provisions of the law, will act and ban the work of places that do not meet these prescribed, strict, but necessary, necessary conditions. Indeed, all praises to the MUP, as the promoter of these legal changes. It's been waiting a while, but it's good, finally, that everything you've done to get him in front of the MPs and I believe he'll be adopted. As for confirming these international agreements, it also praised that a set of these proposals came to confirm within a relatively short period of time after the signing and that such agreements were concluded in general, whether bilateral or multilateral. I would refer only to these agreements concerning the opening of border crossings towards Romania. These crossings have already been opened, as the minister said on November 8th, in the presence of the Prime Minister and the interior minister of the two states, Alexander Vukic and Viktor Ponte, of immeasurable importance for people living on both sides of the border, especially in Banat, in the AP Vojvodina and in the Romanian provinces of Timis, Karoš Temerin, is of great importance that these crossings will allow much more traffic of goods and services than was the case so far. This will contribute to the development of these border areas, which, unfortunately, have been stagnating for some time now. This will boost investments, given the fact that Romania joined the EU in 2007, that it is an EU member and that there are foreign investors present who will surely come to Serbia now, that Romania has been in NATO for a decade. We have the longest land, but also the river border of all neighbours, right with Romania. That border is over 400 kilometers long. This all indicates that it was necessary for these to cross over at our side of Nakovo, Jasa Tomic and Vrbica, to open. That's also important for national minorities on both sides. A long time ago, Serbs from Romania, but also members of Romania's national minority in our country, have proposed solutions just like this. I am sure that this will also contribute to, as you mentioned, more significant funds from, the IPA EU funds and will allow these crossings to be opened, that people on one side of the border live, on the other hand to work or to be treated, to school. We already have cases of people living on one side of the border and working in another country, which will only be expressed after opening these and some other border crossings. Here, once again, for all of this, all praises on behalf of DHSS-PO MUP, Minister Stefanovic, as the legislator of these laws and legislative changes. So these laws have been waiting for a while, but they will soon be adopted. They are very important because they contain solutions that life itself has imposed, i.e. shortages and failures of previous solutions. I believe that these laws, first of all these first two, relating to ammunition, weapons and fire protection, will help save many lives, most importantly, human health, human integrity, and property. That is also the basic purpose of the work of both the executive authorities, which you represent and us MPs, which are located in this House of Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22326	The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22327	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Mr. Minister and fellow ministers, I will first and foremost speak of this set of agreements that we have ahead of us and say that the New Serbia parliamentary group will be happy to support all agreements, because they are always, whether it's a bilateral or multilateral agreement, always in favour of the citizens of Serbia. We are particularly pleased that we can also support an agreement that opens two new border crossings towards Romania, with which we have traditionally had good relations and with which we have never had territorial disputes. It will be a new chance for citizens from both sides of the border, certainly easier communication and national minorities and citizens living in both Romania and Serbia and in any case, better trade in the area. The second law I want to talk about, which is today before us, is the law on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act. When in society we call a law by the name of a person, then it's always a metaphor of a tragedy, and usually some tragedy reminds us of where we weren't perfect enough, careful enough or responsible enough, and that's why today we have amendments and additions to this law and it's good to have it, because it's never early enough, and it's always late enough to act preventively when it comes to such dangers. This amendment and supplementation has been extorted because the lack of legal regulations in this area has been paid by some people with their lives. So the proposal we have ahead of us is seen as a prevention that will help us to function safer, safer, and happier as a society. I welcome several significant steps in this bill, which guarantee that the design and construction of buildings will be such as to ensure the safety of the fire. Also, educating the population on risk management will be more thorough and will include children already in primary school. I hope and expect that experts, engineers who have acquired adequate education at high fire protection schools, will finally and again be busy enough, because daily experience and practice tell us that in large numbers, these very people, who have worked recently in large systems, in large businesses, before privatisation, have lost their jobs, and in large numbers. I believe they will be engaged in the right way and by the Ministry of Education to enter schools and train their children about proper conduct in the event of a fire threat. Their expertise and knowledge are one of the under-exploited resources in our society. We have already seen thousands of examples and hard experiences when mistakes and recklessly cost us dearly, and that the cheapest is when dangers are predicted and preventably prevented. Responsible, modern societies, as we strive to become, put out the fire while he's still in the lighter. We, unfortunately, have gained knowledge and experience in the heats so far. Experience is the most expensive university. We had a lot of burnouts. We are not rich people to be able to perfect such an area with experience. We must invest in the prevention, prevention of any elemental accident, accidents and thus strengthen all our resources, but also become richer. Education, training of fire protection personnel, as well as employment of existing ones, this law will surely guarantee that we will preserve significant material goods and protect the lives of citizens. We're aware that there's enough wood in the fire, one match to make one whole forest disappear. To make that tree match, it takes a decade for that same forest to grow. So much for orderly size and danger of fire. Serbia's new voting day will support precisely these proposed changes and additions to the Fire Protection Act. As far as the Bill of Weapons and Ammunition is concerned, at the very beginning of my presentation on this arms and ammunition law, I must conclude that the Proposer is absolutely right when he claims that social opportunities have changed dramatically since 1992 when the existing law governing this matter was passed. Is it just about the impact of the immediate war environment during the 1990s, the bombing that we have, as a matter of fact, over the head of 1990, has been the economic crisis that has been going on for the last three decades, and its consequences have been the most felt in the last few years after the failed privatisation, or, unfortunately, it is, above all, a complete disorder of elemental human values that has led to general criminalisation in many areas of our social life, only today are we facing a serious task to regulate this matter by law. We're all less aware of the situation we're in as a society, but somehow by intensity, we're not doing anything to help reverse this negative trend. It is not surprising, then, that the proposal that the atmosphere of general uncertainty has affected that a large number of citizens obtain some kind of weapon for personal protection. Knowing that fear is one of the most significant triggers in each individual, then we realize how dangerous the trigger is when the finger of the gunman is found. What I'm trying to say is that it's only enough to fly through most of the daily newspapers to get the undivided impression that human life has never been cheaper, that it's never been easier to move guns, knives and other weapons with the aim of taking another person's life away. That's where the perpetrators are, and that's one of the tragic findings, getting younger and younger. Underage and peer violence, domestic violence, accidents as a result of easy access to various persons, registered or unregistered weapons, which are not adequately guarded, are only a special story to themselves. In circumstances where most daily newspapers, which are essentially tabloids, tend to be daily newspapers, on the front pages, exclusively for circulation and fast earnings, favour people who objectively belong to that category that we often call half-world. The task of changing the general awareness of the true values, including the relationship to violence and weapons, seems to be a bit of a sizef. So it seems much more realistic to try to reduce, above all, the provisions of the new Arms and Ammunition Act in order to ensure general prevention of the huge amount of weapons found in illegal possession. We certainly welcome that idea. However, the number from 200,000 to 900 thousand weapons is disturbing. First, because it seems frightening in itself, and secondly, it can be legitimate to ask the question -- how is it even possible that an estimate is made in such an enormous range, because there is an impression that there is not even a nearly valid estimate made by the competent authorities on the amount of illegally owned weapons? If we know what the number of people in Serbia is and we look at these figures, then we have another reason for fear, and fear psychology doesn't have to be talked about much. When I mention general prevention, I have to express my suspicion that legalisation, or the introduction of existing weapons from an illegal sphere into a domain of registered and registered, will essentially solve our problems and reduce the number of those who are suffering from weapons, because a good part of the victims has been killed by just the weapon for which whoever used it has already had a valid license to hold and a valid permit even to hold and carry. Otherwise, when we mention weapons as the subject of this law, the most common association is guns, or revolvers of all calibers. The law also lists the other means of murder. The estimated number of guns and guns on the world level is about 775 million pieces of which are even owned by private natural persons. Scary sounds like the average thousand people on the global level get hurt by this weapon every day, and we don't count war spots and war conflicts. With that in mind, a few months ago, I mentioned a very important parallel between the United States and Great Britain. In fact, it's common knowledge that in the United States it's more than simply to get weapons whatever you want and that every average American household is supplied with a real small arsenal. So over the last few years, more than 30,000 people in the United States lose their lives each year, while more than 60,000 people are wounded, making up a number of about 100 people who are hurt to a greater or lesser extent by using firearms or losing their lives. At the same time, in Great Britain, the number of people who lose their lives on an annual basis from firearms varies between 150 and 200 people. If they set a pure mathematical proportion between the populations of these two countries, the United States has 320 million inhabitants, and the United Kingdom about 65 million inhabitants, it would be logical to expect, given the other similarities between these two countries and their societies, that the number of victims in the United Kingdom would be around 6.5 thousand. The United States has five times as many residents as the United Kingdom, and 100 times more victims of firearms. However, the logical question is – what is the basic reason for such a huge proportion, when it comes to these figures, in favour of the United Kingdom? The answer is only one. It's a completely opposite policy implemented by the state when it comes to holding and owning weapons. In Great Britain, an extremely small number of officials have the authority to own and carry weapons, even one of the trademarks of Great Britain, the popular “Bobby, ” or as the English call it “constantble, ” has no right to carry arms while performing their daily duties. The question arises – what about hunters? The English practically invented fox hunts and things like that. In England, when you enter the hunting grounds, it's usually rented, like when you come to the ski resort and rent skis. Otherwise, my friends who are members of hunting organisations in Serbia, who are about 75,000, very seriously and very responsiblely armed, represent one respectable armed force of Serbia and have put in place serious suggestions that want to fix the law and I think many amendments will be adopted in favour of it. In England, when you find yourself with a weapon in your hand, outside the hunting grounds, you can't avoid years of legal punishment. There is no mechanism, no connection, that would set you free. In Great Britain, the policy, which was determined according to the use, use, and carrying of weapons, led to this small number of people killed by firearms. Every number is too big, even one life that is lost is too much, but we're talking about statistics as such now. So, I fully respect the proponents' arguments when, in an explanation, it states that one of the objectives of the law is to allow legal and security owners of weapons to possess, use their weapons for hunting, sport, collectorship, and even self-defense, but there is always one big one – but. And here's a couple of data that I came up with, which most vividly illustrates the current state of things. The estimated total amount of firearms owned by private natural persons in Serbia, legally plus illegal, is about three million and 50,000. The number of rifles owned by private individuals is about 450 thousand. Among the 178 countries in the world, Serbia is 25th in the amount of firearms owned by private natural persons. When this absolute amount is compared to the population of Serbia is extremely high, I would say a respectable, fifth place among all 178 states. The total number of registered guns in Serbia is 1.172,468. I think I have the exact information. The amount of weapons in illegal possession in Serbia is estimated at around 944 thousand, which is an unmatched number of the bottom estimated 200 000. So we have reason for both fear and concern. Of course, a huge amount of illegal weapons simply cry out that the state is taking planning measures that include legalisation as a way to translate such weapons on a voluntary basis into legal flows and put them under state control. But in the near future, there is a need to think about further tightening the state's policy when it comes to possession and carrying weapons. Because to return to figures and proportions, the Republic of Serbia has nine times fewer inhabitants than the UK, and the number of people killed by firearms is even higher at an absolute level of between 250 and 300 people. So, another reason to think. The awareness of the respect of his and his life directly reflects both his awareness and his attitude toward weapons, his responsibility for obtaining, possessing, and carrying. We have reason as a society to think, to seriously worry and really bring state policy into line with the tightening of the measures, when it comes to weapons and its use. This law is certainly a step forward, we have proposed as a parliamentary group of 20 amendments, we hope you will recognise our both co-operation and good intentions. We believe that we will contribute to the importance of making this law, above all, easier to use, more applicable and better for the benefit of citizens, and we expect a number to be accepted anyway, and we will support the law in the day of voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22328	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22329	Thank you for your constructive dialogue and your suggestions. We have, I've been informed that 93 amendments to the Arms and Ammunition Act have been filed so far, and we will certainly consider it carefully. Each one of them and everything that goes in line, let me say the intensity that we had when the law was written and which is to say, going through a serious public debate, and which, even today, we're going to change this day, to say, surely by accepting some of the amendments, we're trying to accept every good proposal. I think there's always a good way, and ultimately it shows it through the enormous activity of the MPs, but also all the other and hunting associations and all the other individuals who have made their proposals. I'll give you some statistics on statistics, but fully aware that whatever you say here can't compensate for pain and can't compensate for a human life that's lost, whether it's a murder done with fire or a cold weapon. We have a good moment of downfall committed by crimes and weapons and tools with blades and firearms on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'll give you an overview in the last 10 years without, of course, 2015 since we just started the year. In 2004, for example, for the work done with firearms was 131 work, in 2005, 131 in 172, 2007 in 174, 2008 159, 2009 in 138, 2010 in 107, 2011 in 71, 2012, 47, 2013 in 63 and 2014 in 56. These are works carried out by firearms in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. As regards the review of criminal acts carried out with tools and weapons with a blade or a sharp object in 2004, 514 of these works were 514 in 2005, 491 in 2006, 444, 441 in 2008, 414, 2009 in 384, 2010 in 395, 2011 402, in 205, 2013, 155 and 141. So, fully aware that statistics can't help those people who are victims and their families, I think it's good to note that there's a good trend in the decline of criminal acts, tools and weapons. What I'm worried about is that we have a single number of crimes, even in some parts, when we're talking about murders and serious murders, whether they're done or tried, we have almost equal numbers done with cold weapons and firearms. This is not worrying right now, there are far fewer works done compared to previous years, but one piece is too much for the safety of every Serbian citizen. The task of legalizing weapons is not only to translate that weapon, since it has some weapon that cannot be translated because of its properties, e.g. Automatic weapons cannot be translated into legal weapons, the task of legalization is to surrender most of that weapon. There are citizens who are rightly concerned about the possibility of prosecution if such a weapon is found in their possession and those in that fear do not surrender that weapon. Whether that weapon was inherited, whether it was brought by family members from some battlefield, whether it was found in one way or another, it exists today in a number of households and I totally agree with you that a broad estimate is from 200,000 to 900,000 indicators that we really are not able to fully look at all the seriousness of this problem. We hope and today I have spoken to my colleagues, and I will suggest that the committee of directors adopt an amendment that will allow the legalisation to begin in fact immediately after the adoption of this law, since you know that the application of the law has been postponed for one year from the date of adoption. So, if the Assembly accepts that it is adopted on the eighth day of publication, that it be an attitude, for a year, that it all be agreed, that people should not be in offenses and criminal acts, but that legalization should be discussed immediately in eight days. Then in the next three months, all citizens can hand over the weapons they have in illegal possession. Those who want to file for permission under this law to do it in such a way, those who hand it over at no cost, so to speak, to surrender it without any fear of prosecution and that in such a way we will withdraw one part of the weapons from the illegal possession of the population. In fact, we will hand it over for different uses in state authorities or for destruction. So that's what the MUP wants. I thank all who have so far participated in the debate on constructive proposals and I hope that we will continue to give good, constructive ideas that will help people be safer. It's the only task I have today. It is my job for Serbian citizens to feel more secure both on the street and elsewhere. I appeal to all people that the weapons that keep them completely safe, completely safe, and as you said, there are different ways, there are no different ways for a man to always own personal weapons in order to exhibit certain sports and hunting abilities, but there are a number of people who want to. So, according to this law, we'll be able to do it, but we'll find ways to be much safer than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22330	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22331	I have to say, I'm surprised there's been a pool of debates over these three laws, but good. I would start from what is indisputable, which is the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of international border crossings "Jasa Tomic", "Vrbice" and "Nakovo". I can say that's an extremely useful thing. This will help the people of Banat to communicate more easily on both sides of the border, LSV all hails and will vote in favour of the bill. I'll remind you, Banat was an independent state in a short time after World War I. As an independent state in its very short history that lasted only two weeks, however, it has left a mark on citizens on both sides of the border and on the other side of the border, and in this sense, we do not only see this as a useful move for citizens on both sides of the border, but also as creating an increasing number of bridges between Serbia and the EU, which is in the interest of all citizens on both sides of the border. The second thing, the bill of amendments and additions to the Fire Law. I personally find it frightening that these laws are called victims' names, because real laws would have to be made to prevent such disasters, not to be in a certain sense monuments to victims, which have also caused absences legally, which could, in time, prevent such unpleasant events, if I want to be euphemistic. To be exact, these are tragedies, but the fires at the Long cafe in Novi Sad and the New Sad discotheque "Contrast" wrapped Novi Sad in black. Twice in seven years. As I come from Novi now and every day I walk past the "Contrast" discotheque and always the fresh flowers that it finds in front of that burned door, I know very well how much and what tragedy has hit Novi Sad. In that sense, no one would have to suffer such terrible traumas as all the Novosadians, and at the head of the victims' families, I think this law is extremely important, and the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina will vote for it. The law on weapons and ammunition is now one little different thing. I think it's very important that we understand each other about the important thing, which is that certain demagogues of the type that the weapon kills and that it needs to be completely indiscriminately banned and excluded from our lives don't stand. They don't stand, among other things, because if we start with that logic that the weapon kills, then the spoon grows, and the pen makes spelling mistakes, which is simply not true. I know from personal experience. So it's something else entirely. The question of the use of weapons, i.e. his abuses on one side. On the other hand, when considering the issue of arms and ammunition, the question of legal weapons and legal ammunition must be considered, not weapons that are illegal, illegal and ammunition that are not allowed to be used. In other words, I mean, the other day, we had an attack with an M70 automatic rifle, where a woman was shot in the car. However, the M70 automatic rifle is by no law a legal weapon to be found in the hands of a private person. It's a assault rifle that serves military police purposes and it can't be in the hands of a private person. So owning such a weapon is a crime. Why am I undermining this? Because to a large extent a mistake is made and a mistake is made about how to treat weapons and all those who do not have an accurate picture of what is being done are simply not familiar with the importance of the regulation of this matter in the way that to a large extent in this law this matter is handled. I'll give you some information that might be interesting. Let's say that worldwide gun mortality according to 2008 data -- over 100,000 people in Honduras are killed by 65 people from guns, in Mexico 12, Serbia 3.9, unlike Switzerland, where 3.8 were killed, unlike Chile where 3,7, Finland 3.6, Croatia 3.5 died, but therefore in the United States 10.3, in Montenegro 8.5, which is one completely unexpected data, in Nicaragua 7.3, in Greece 4.8, etc. etc. I mean, it's a matter of gun and revolver injuries here, but from guns and guns whether they're legal or not, because doing a crime with legal weapons is very rare precisely because legal personal weapons can be identified through grains and so what's legalized becomes inappropriate for committing a crime. In that sense, the resolved pipes which would be legalized and are thus introduced into the records become in a certain sense less dangerous as potential means of committing criminal acts than illegal and illegal weapons. As for ammunition, of course, I can give more examples of the murder rate to 100,000 inhabitants. Our murder rate is 1.2 per 100,000 inhabitants, and the world average is 6.2. Canada has 1.6. England, which is practically fully disarmed, 1.0, Danes in Greenland 19.4 etc. etc. What I'm saying is that in this country, legal weapons are used with great caution and great responsibility. However, I don't know if it would be a question of this or any other law, many years ago there was a discussion about the fact that a specific course for its use must be passed when granting a firearms license. Since there is no longer a military deadline that would be mandatory, since the shooting associations don't function in the width in which I would like to see it, the question is, how are people going to train themselves to use firearms, and that it's really good enough quality and true that they don't put themselves and others at risk by holding firearms? There was an argument, which I saw in the law, that certain parts of equipment such as thermal optical means etc. are allegedly military equipment and that since they are military equipment they should not be placed on the market. The same applies to silencers. My question is - if so, how is it possible that you can legally buy a sniper optics, legally in the store, which is much better, better quality and stronger than military optics, because on military snipers, optics increases up to 24 times, and you have a "Svarovski" optics that goes from five to 30 with a tactical ending, which is in legal sales that can achieve a successful shot without major problems and over 350 meters? How do you take for a serious argument about military equipment when, for example, the most used grains used and the most used calibers used in hunting are 30.06 and 8.57 or in military terminology 7.9? How do you take it seriously when both grains were formed in the early 20th century, 30.06 was created in 1906, and Mauser’s 8.57 grain was formed a few years earlier? I ask the question – these are the grains with which the Balkan wars were fought and the First World War and World War II and the war in Korea and the war in Vietnam. So, I'm talking about 30.06, and unfortunately for me, back in the '90s, 7.9 was used in wars in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. So these are war grains, military bullets, where only the structure of the grains separates them from the hunters. Thus, if we want to develop hunting, as one of the serious business branches in Serbia, with huge potential for tourism development, we cannot do so unless there is a clearly regulated relationship to hunting weapons. Because if laws are made only exclusively for the purpose of preventing criminal acts and going after that every citizen is a criminal of evil intentions, and not making sure that, say, if there is a restriction on the purchase of ammunition for broken pipes, short or long, and at the same time, unlimited ammunition supply for hunting weapons, of all calibers, from 36 to 12, we come into a position that you suddenly have the opportunity to buy as much ammunition as you want for a hunting rifle that, since it's not isolated, is impossible to track the weapon from which the bullet was fired, unlike a broken pipe. All those paradoxes, all these misunderstandings, the silencer question, which is about prejudices only, because in all the movies where different negative characters appear, you always have a scene of someone putting a silencer on a gun and then liquidating someone. At the same time, it is forgotten that when it comes to silencers, it is said, among other things, that something that is extremely important from the ecological point of view because the silencers reduce the noise in the hunting grounds, and thus the game is less disturbed and thus gets a far better result in hunting. Also, thermovisual means of observation, which allow better assessment of the quality of game, the strength of their trophies, and thus assist hunters in their work. How do you think we're fighting pests, and anyone who's a hunter knows perfectly well that jackals have become a tribute to the hunting ground in Serbia, if there's no way to buy elementary ammunition 222 or 223 or whatever it is used for pests and similar small predators? How can we even actively fight this, when pest poisoning could cause an ecological disaster of broader proportions? All in all, LSV has submitted several amendments. They, I think, are largely in line with the general view of this matter that hunting societies across Serbia and Vojvodina and the National Association for Weapons have. If these amendments are adopted and adopted by the government, I personally think that LSV will vote in favour of this law. As much as there is consensus, it may best say that I had a conversation with Mr. Shormaz about the amendment. We agreed that our amendments are almost equal, which is just saying that if Mr. Shormaz and I are thinking the same thing, it must mean that this is really the most broad consensus that can be made in this country at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22332	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22333	Thank you for your suggestions. Now that I've noticed, based on your debate from the beginning of your discussion and what my colleagues are telling me now, it's obvious that we have a rule on training and handling firearms from 1999. We will certainly initiate the process of amending that rule, since it is really a question of what the quality of the training is to handle firearms for people who go through that training and gain confidence that they have the opportunity to obtain firearms. It will certainly be the subject of our work in the coming weeks. I hope we can do this quickly, because I want the MUP to be able to control all those who have the ability to train and see how these people really train and what they know after that training. We'll study all your amendments, of course, especially when it's reached such a broad consensus, then there's no reason not to accept it, probably. But as for some of the things we've already seen in the beginning, I've suggested that we adopt this kind of amendment, for example, the use of hollow grain, which is forbidden by the bill, I don't think it should be because most of the hunting grain uses it, and then it would make it impossible for hunting to develop and, of course, what hunters use the most. Also, this bill allows me to say, a kind of unlimited ammunition purchase for all types of weapons that can be taken into legal possession, by, of course, taking care of the Fire Protection Act, no individual must possess that amount of gunpowder that could endanger the object from fire. It's the only restriction in that sense. You're absolutely right. I took statistics from 2012 to 2014, which is the most favourable in the last ten years. The crimes committed by weapons in legal possession ranged from 7.41% in 2014, up to 8.27% in 2013, therefore, the percentage of those people involved in carrying out the crime with weapons in legal possession. So it's really not a big number. Of course, you should continue to work to reduce that number, but above all, it is imperative to reduce the amount of weapons in illegal possession because it is obviously the biggest problem we have. I'll look at everything you suggested, so hopefully, during tomorrow, the government will take a stand on the issue and then we'll see what we can accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22334	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22335	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, with your team, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I would primarily like to express one confidence and one support to the Minister and the Ministry for all the efforts that make the level of public security at the highest possible level, but also to those other systemic aspects that the Ministry of Interior is dealing with, which are very important for the overall social situation in our country, and it is related to organised crime and unfortunate and uncompromising fight against corruption. The amendments and additions of the Fire Protection Act cover two very important aspects in our country's social life. First of all, it's general security and it's maximum work and permanent work to improve the culture of security in our country, when it comes to our citizens, no matter how old they are. What is very commendable and bringing new amendments and additions to the law, is that educational programmes in this domain will be mandatory both in primary and secondary schools and I hope it will contribute to the maximum contribution of security culture in our country to the highest possible degree. I also want, as a member of the Cokus for Economic Development in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which, as you know, is structured by MPs and opposition parties alike, to commend the commitment of people who are particularly employed in this sector dealing with these problems that we have repeatedly met, with Mr Zarevev, we have had very reasoned discussions, but also discussed in this direction to help, as MPs, and to include both the NGOs and all other professional associations and organisations, in that sense, to make this law better, to be more quality and to be more applicable. In that sense, we have given seven amendments, in fact, that we have handed over, and I hope that they will be accepted, that they will be adopted, because we are sure that they are going to speed up this law as much as possible and make it more applicable. What represents the second domain of this law, which is very important, is its alignment with the strategic reform law, it is the Law on Planning and Construction, which will start to apply in the Republic of Serbia as of 1 March, and simply given the fact that our country, when the question of planning and construction, is when the issue of permits, when the question of investment level, was in that domain even 184th place on the list of the World Bank "Doing Business". So, behind us were only Syria and Somalia. Syria that's in a state of war. Somalia, too, is an unsettled, non-democratic state. The importance of amending and supplementing this law and helping to implement the Law on Planning and Construction in full capacity is of little importance for attracting new investments and for creating an ambience for creating new jobs in our country. It is therefore very important that this law is now and at this moment at the session of our Parliament and that we discuss that, in this domain of planning and building, we agree it maximumly to build objects, both commercial and others, so it is much easier to obtain permits in a much easier and more quality way, but in order for the MUP and the state, of course, to have better control. Before the profit, before the market and before the competition, in any case, the country itself, the Ministry itself, the Government, as well as Parliament and us as MPs are the most important security of our citizens and the establishment of a single security culture that is very important for every kind of development, not only for security, but also for the economic development and social development of overall social development. The proposal for this law contributes to the issue of the conditions of the MUP in the phase of drawing up an idea solution, that it is envisaged and agreed to make, not the main project, but the fire protection elaborate. In that sense, sublegal acts will also be drawn up as far as we know them. The project for a building permit is developed at the stage of the production of a project for implementation, the agreement of the MIP on a project to be implemented and defined in the process of a united procedure, which is essential for reducing bureaucracy when investors are asked where they will be able to obtain all consent in one place and in the context of a united procedure, but with the retention of one of the highest levels of control and security within the scope of the planning and construction process. Also, licensed persons who participate in technical admission committees are introduced and this is very important. Earlier, only members of the Ministry of Interior could participate in the granting of these certificates and such permits. Now it's for smaller objects, for those objects that are, of course, less endangered, allowed for these other licensed persons. A little later, I will appeal to the minister, because as an economic cocussus in co-operation with the National Alliance for Local Economic Development, we have had one amendment which meant that by 2018 we have a transitional period where this job will be left to the private initiative. We can discuss it, discuss it at meetings several times, exchange arguments, but I personally remain convinced that this second option that I'm going to propose is better and that it can be more meaningful. I must also mention that I am referring to discussions of my previous colleagues when it comes to opening border crossing agreements with the Republic of Romania and the strategic importance of co-operation with the Republic of Romania. This is particularly important in the area of freer flow of people, capital, goods and what has been happening lately, and it is possible to create through this co-operation and strategic approach to co-operation and jobs. I will give you an example and an initiative by the president of the municipality of Kikind, Mr. Pavlov, and our consul Lazar Manojlovic in Temisvar, to sign an agreement with Romania in the domain, an interstate agreement on the mutual engagement of labour force that will regulate details regarding the nostrification of diplomas, obtaining residence, work permits, and particularly regulation of social, pension and health insurance. What does that have to do with opening border crossings? Well, of course, every opening of the border crossing represents the opening of one country to another. It represents a clear signal that the two countries can co-operate and develop their co-operation at full capacity. We also need as a state, as a government and as a parliament to react to those changes that occur in Romania and in the border area, meaning in the Temisvar region and in that part of Romania, there are many foreign investors. What is happening in Romania in this part is that a lot of their labour force is leaving for other EU countries in search of work and in search of the existence and foreign companies, therefore, foreign investors in the border work have a considerable demand for labour engagement. At this point, the analysis showed that these companies needed about five and a half thousand people who from the area of northern Banat who, and Mr. Canak mentioned it earlier, thank God and thanks to Michael Pupin, part of Serbia, and this is very important for that area, there are 18,000 unemployed. Five and a half thousand unemployed could find their existence and work in Romania's border area, in Timisvar where labour needs exist. So we think and I appeal to the minister himself to help make this co-operation with Romania and to make these border crossings just one initial capsule, one incentive to further expand and deepen co-operation and simply focus and help our government's policy to create and try to find the possibility of new employment for every citizen in the Republic of Serbia, especially in those areas where unemployment is highly expressed, in northern Banat where there are about 18,000 people. We can only assume how much employment of about 5,000 people would be significant for the whole region. I will end up with this kind of appeal, and I will try to convince the Minister and members of his team about this amendment concerning the takeover of a person who will, in accordance with the law, receive licences and who will be able to carry out a technical examination, consisting of a lack of resources from the IPO. It's clear to all of us, there aren't enough people to do it. The argumentation of the MUP is that this should remain in the MUP because the state will incriminate money and the budget will incur money from paying those licences, but it is potentially possible to employ a few dozen or even a few hundred people who would do the job. In the 21st century, in the process of making Serbia a serious and strong market economy, when our prime minister, when every member of parliament struggles to attract investment, fight for a job, fight for anyone who can start a private business and struggle to create a better environment for this private initiative, I believe that three years is enough for us to make Serbia a normal state, and in a normal state you can in fact trust and define clear standards and clear methods and instruments that would delegate the responsibility of people, whether they are in a private or state sector to do a certain job. After all, as someone who is more valuable to the market economy, and I say so in front of my party, to hire a private initiative, to hire and to get people to start their jobs and to self-employment, to pay taxes and contribute to this country, to pay in addition to paying extra value, to potentially hire new people than those people who are needed and who lack employment in the state administration. I think we're done here. I think that in this area, and very, very much exaggerated, given how many people are employed in the public sector and we are slowly going phase by stage, step by step, we have to, in order to put it modernly, one part of the jobs that the state administration is in charge of, to enable a private initiative, to literally disprove them to do certain jobs, and nothing else but defining the rule of law. Whether we will set clear standards and whether there are clear penalties and clear criminal policies for those who break the law. I once again urge you to think about this and define three years, means 2018, when private, therefore, citizens who have a license, who will meet the requirements of the law and standards, will be able to simply work and take over this business slowly, because in 2018 we all hope that we will be a country that will have economic growth, be a state that will regulate the public sector and, therefore, make the country itself a cheap state that will be and meet what is most important for that country. A clear service to citizens and businesses and it is the only one and it is the most important role that the state should fulfill in this domain and, of course, in the coming period, not to interfere with any projects, not to participate in state projects, not to be an entrepreneur. The prime minister himself spoke about it yesterday at a press conference, if we don't know anything, let's trust someone else, it's safe and believe and practice of nearly 200 years since the industrial revolution has given enough arguments for those who meet the standards, that those who have a entrepreneurial spirit, that the private initiative is more effective and effective than the state in some domain. The state to retain essential instruments and essential powers should all of this be left to the private initiative. It's the only way our country can develop. Anyone who will pay taxes and contributions tomorrow, anyone who will pay a tax on additional value is important to this country and we need to create such an environment to motivate people to do this, to make a final entrepreneurial society, not to be an official society, as we are today, where even young people are the greatest imperative to be employed in public services, in state institutions, not, but to start private initiatives and in this way I just want to give an idea and encourage that private initiative and entrepreneurial spirit in our people, but of course, to try to convince our colleagues from the Interior Ministry is one better option. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22336	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vanja Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22337	The Honorable Chairman, guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, is presently nine important laws, seven international agreements, the Law on Arms and Ammunitions, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, known as Tamara's Law, which was adopted after a long work on making this law, the drafting of the text of this law, as well as the adoption of other legal acts that had to precede the adoption of this law. I mean, first of all, the Law on Planning and Construction. The law is also passed unfortunately after the tragedy that took place in the New Sad discotheque “Contrast” on April 1, 2012, when six people were killed, when six young lives were lost, by negligence and neglect, by disregard of the law, can be said by the greed of the owner of the bar for money. This event is a major reminder to investors and property owners that they must strictly adhere to fire protection regulations. In addition to amending the Fire Protection Act, the assistant minister, chief of the emergency sector, Mr. Maric said. This law should establish more effective control in the area of the security of the facilities, primarily those in which catering works are carried out, but also those in which more people are gathered. These are facilities that carry out the activities of education, science, culture, student and student standards, health care. I would add great sports and concert halls and cinemas, although I will say more about these facilities later. With compassion for the parents of all the victims in this tragedy, I would show great respect for the parents of Tamara Miladanovic who have made great effort, effort and time after their great loss to prevent such tragedies from ever happening again. The Socialist Party of Serbia, in voting day, will support all the laws we are discussing in this 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. My fellow MPs will discuss and explain the position and vision of the Socialist Party of Serbia for each of these laws a little bit later, and I will talk as an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia about all these laws in short. Also, our parliamentary group has proposed several amendments to the Arms and Ammunition Act. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, our MP will not propose any amendments, he will fully support this bill. As for the international co-operation of the ministry, it is a very important segment of the work of the Ministry of the Interior, because in a different way it represents the Republic of Serbia in the world, especially in Europe and the region, as shown by these agreements, i.e. the Memorandum on which we are discussing today, which I hope we will all support in the voting day. The international agreements with Romania, which opens three new border crossings, Jasa Tomic-Fenj, will then, "Vrbica – Valjkan" and "Nakovo-Lunga", at the Serbian-Romanian state border will allow faster and easier traffic, i.e. the flow of goods and people, especially in the wrong area with our neighbour Romania, regardless of what we are opening these three border crossings today, I hope, i.e. in 2020 and I know that we will close them, because this government leads the country in a good direction, leads to the EU and I hope that in 2020 we will become its member. Until then, life needs to be made easier for people, as this agreement does. I must stress that one of the fundamentals, or principles of the EU, is the smooth and smooth transport of goods, the services of people. The border towards Romania is 547,9km long, 296km on land and 257,3km on water, with six road, two railway and five river crossings, if I'm not mistaken. The opening of these three crossings greatly increases the possibility of moving people and goods from territory to territory of another country. Then, with almost all EU countries, the Republic of Serbia signed agreements and readmissions. To remind you, one of the conditions for obtaining visa liberalisation was the signing of such agreements, or one of the conditions for allowing people to go uninterrupted, or visa-free, to EU countries, was the signing of a readmission agreement. Today we are discussing such an agreement with the Russian Federation, the return of a person who is illegally staying in the territory of this country. This is a very important agreement, because of the large number of people staying in Serbia and Russia, and because there is a great possibility that a number of these people are illegal on the territory of another country, and as a reason for such a view, the number of Serbian citizens returning from the EU countries to Serbia on a daily basis. Also, a large number of agreements have been signed in the area of the fight against crime. Such an agreement was signed with the Republic of Belarus on 12 March 2013 in the capital of Belarus, Minsk, by the foreign minister, then Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Mr Mrkic and his Belarusian counterpart, and this agreement promotes co-operation in the field of combating international organised crime, terrorism, illegal drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and their transposors, as well as other types of criminal offences, such as various types of counterfeiting, i.e. counterfeiting of money, documents, etc., then trafficking in human beings, crimes against property. This agreement will facilitate the detection of criminal offences, facilitate the capture and detention of perpetrators of criminal acts of justice, as well as the inability to hide them from law enforcement, through exchange of operational information, joint training, exchange of experience, etc. The remaining two international agreements, i.e. one agreement and one memorandum, concern co-operation in the event of disasters, which is the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Hungary in co-operation and mutual assistance, in the case of disasters and the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding, on the institutional framework of an initiative for prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the South East European region of 2013. These two laws are also extremely important for our country as well as for the countries of the region, especially after the catastrophic floods that hit the Republic of Serbia, as well as BiH and Croatia last May. Today, however, we are witnessing that floods are becoming more and more affected by our region, and that is, the more we see from recent events, i.e. the floods that have hit Macedonia and Albania. For these reasons, co-operation is needed in this area, above all, in order to respond adequately and quickly in case such disasters happen again. A rapid disaster response can be essential to saving people's lives affected by disasters. Also, prevention and early warning of disasters can prevent the destruction and threat of property, health and lives of people. Whether it is multilateral agreements, whether it is bilateral agreements, what these two types of agreements we are discussing today, they aim to adequately protect the population and their property. For all these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will support all these international agreements and this memorandum in the voting day, and there is no reason why the other MPs, especially the opposition MPs, will not vote for such laws. Now I would refer to the other two laws, the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act. After a number of changes and additions to the current Arms and Ammunition Act adopted in the early 1990s, today we are discussing the adoption of a completely new modern Arms and Ammunition Act in line with the EU's positive legal regulations. At the beginning of my discussion of this law, I would first refer to the legalisation of weapons, regardless of what is at the end of this law, because I find legalisation very important. According to some estimates in Serbia, there are between 500,000 and a million and a half weapons in the illegal possession of citizens, regardless of what the minister said were slightly less. However, the range in these figures is so large because there is no precise way to determine the number of weapons that are in illegal possession. So I will refer to the legalisation of weapons that citizens have in illegal possession, as well as the handover of weapons that citizens cannot have in their possession, such as explosive devices, automatic weapons and the like. I think this is a major breakthrough in this area, because citizens will be able to hand over, or legalize weapons without fear of having such weapons and responding. Therefore, criminal charges will not be initiated if someone owns, as well as will not have to prove where he's coming from, and they want to hand him over, or legalize him, because in that way, in a legal way, they will be able to free themselves of such weapons, not to keep him or leave him in places that could endanger other people's health or lives. However, a different kind of question is being raised, and since there have been several legalisations so far, as the minister has stated five, and the law has not allowed the release of criminal responsibility, and we have testified that this is exactly what has happened, does this mean that someone has abused the law, has someone put themselves above the law in the past, above the courts, or above the Assembly? I must stress, as I repeat, the minister said, two actions in 2003 when more than 48,000 weapons were legalized and in 2007, when more than 8,500 weapons were legalized. Does this mean that all these people are simply someone's will to be freed from criminal responsibility? I believe that this law regulates this area and that people will not be held liable for the handover of weapons. The only thing that could have been arranged differently in this area, i.e. in the area of legalisation, was the systematicisation of legal norms, i.e. to be regulated in one member, and not now as in Article 46 and Article 51 where legalisation is referred to in Article 46 and Article 51 on legalisation. On the other hand, the number of weapons in the legal possession of citizens is also high and exceeds the number of millions and 200,000 pieces and therefore it is necessary to edit this area in one systematic way that this law also achieves. First of all, in a different, more precise way, weapons are defined as well as concepts related to this area that have so far not been defined by law, which is a license for carrying weapons, a gun list, an authorised seller, an authorised repairer, etc. By new arms categorisation, it has been divided into four groups, and this law introduces a specific type of weapon that has not been regulated by law so far, and these are gas sprays and electroshocks and other weapons for which the procurement does not require the approval of the competent national authority. We have been thinking about submitting in this area an amendment concerning granting approval for this type of weapon, i.e. to submit an amendment relating to the age-limit of a person who can possess this type of weapon, but, in parallel to the analysis of the rules applied in EU countries, we have given up because the practice is different and in this case we will support the legislator of this law. As I mention the approval of the state authority, I must point out that the SPS parliamentary group will propose an amendment to the jurisdiction of persons who can give permission to carry arms, but we will discuss this in particular when we discuss this law. The paper introduced by the law, which is fully supported by the SPS, refers to the conditions needed to keep and carry arms and to compulsory health skills. We support the solution provided for by this law that medical institutions issue confidence, but that the competent doctor must immediately notify the ministry if the health status of a person with a weapon changes. At the very end, I would refer to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, which was created on the basis of experience in applying the existing Fire Protection Act. This law regulates in a better, more efficient way the control of facilities that gathers more people, and all in order to avoid tragedies that could lead to a person or more of them suffering as was the case in Novi Sad, as well as obtaining consent to the use of such objects. Consents will only be given only if the conditions prescribed by the law are met, too, and the obligation to install time-consuming, reporting and fire-extinguishing devices in those facilities. When I mentioned objects of public purpose, I must say that they are defined by this law, which are objects that have more than 80% of the surface intended for gathering people, which is also a novelty in this law. In addition to these changes, the law regulates the work of fire rescue services differently. These changes have also occurred as a result of the experience of these services on the ground, because, as the law explains, they are in practice expanding in part around these services, and they are not only dealing with the quenching of fires, but also other activities, i.e. saving people from other accidents such as floods, car accidents, large amounts of snow and other situations where there is the possibility of endangering people and property, as well as eliminating these dangers. And in the end, I would once again express great respect for the parents of Tamara Miladanovic who participated in writing amendments and supplementing this law in the hope of contributing to the prevention of future accidents. All these laws will be discussed in more detail by my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary club Djordje Milicevic, Stefana Miladanovic, Gordana Topic and Neđo Jovanovic, and I repeat again as an authorised representative of the SPS to stress that we will support the proposals of all nine laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22338	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22339	Thank you, Mr. Vukic, for a really good, constructive debate. I'd just like one explanation. In principle, you were talking about legalizing the weapons of two members. What's the point of this article 51? Since it is about transitional and final provisions, it only applies now, so only now that we adopt the law, I will propose, I also talked to the chairman of the board, Maria Obradovic, what is my intensity. Since we haven't noticed that this article 51 says that a fact weapon can be registered within three months of the date of application of the law, which is in a year, not to remain luft for a year, you are absolutely right, this is the first time in a long time that legalization is legally done, so whether or not it's not voluntary and whether someone will respond or not to the law, but exactly in accordance with the law and it's really well noticed and in this way we'll have, let me say, one additional motivation for all people who will know they're not being threatened by the criminal liability of the law, just when they hand over that weapon that has been found in their possession for any reason. Anyway, thank you for your support, and I think we can do a lot together for the safety of all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22340	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, fellow Members and fellow MPs, we have two laws ahead of us, i.e. amendments to the law and seven agreements. Since the agreements are certainly important to our citizens and are primarily necessary, we will give support to these agreements. What I want to talk about are laws. First of all, the draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, which is known as Tamara's Law. We will in principle support the amendments and additions of this law, but we express dissatisfaction with the fact that the law is largely out of line with the existing Law on Planning and Construction. I've found at least 10 places where the laws simply don't comply. There are termological differences, because in the Law on Fire Protection and the current Law on Planning and Construction, two different terms are used – the main project of fire protection, and in the Law on Planning and Construction is used – the fire protection laboratory. It remains unclear whether the future investor or body responsible for carrying out the joint procedure will be obliged to obtain two different documents or two different consents to the technical documentation regarding the fire protection measure. Also, it remains our dissatisfaction with the chance to transfer most of the jurisdiction from the state authority to professional institutions and licensed persons through the amendment of this law. We believe that this is a major potential source of corruption, because we also have life events that assure us that the authority of the state authorities is being misused and that certain consent is simply being issued for objects that may not need to be issued. On the other hand, it stops by issuing certain consent when there's no reason to. For example, in Croatia or Slovenia the authorities of the national fire protection authority have been transferred to professional institutions and licensed persons. We think it was necessary to do so in Serbia, that we too have a slightly more modern law. As regards the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, firstly, on 7 October last year, our parliamentary group submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law where it was intended to be issued. to gain confidence in the health skills of gun holders. Since these amendments and additions to the laws that we have on the agenda today contain this proposal, we will withdraw our bill, because we believe that this bill will be adopted and that greater security will be achieved by making weapons holders mandatory to apply medical assurance every five years about their ability to hold weapons. As with the previous law and the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, there are inaccuracies, there are even some illogicalities, so I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a few things. For example, in Article 11, where conditions are laid down for natural persons to obtain and hold weapons of category B, point 8 of point 1), it is stated that the justified reason for the procurement and holding of weapons is evidence that certain persons are at risk of personal security due to the nature of the business or other circumstances. How do you get that evidence? What does it look like? Which institution betrays him? It's absolutely not defined in law. Article 13 states that a request for the supply of weapons is submitted in a prescribed form and that evidence of justification for the supply of weapons is necessary. The same question - what is this evidence? How is there an estimate of justification for the use of weapons? In the same Article, paragraph 6, paragraph 6, says: "The authorisation for the supply of weapons on the basis of which the applicant has not carried out the supply of weapons within the intended time limit shall be returned to the competent authority. “ Hence, it prescribes the obligation to return the approval. However, he does not prescribe sanctions. What if someone who has an approval didn't get a weapon, didn't return that approval to the competent authority, simply, there's no sanctions and therefore the disposition is pointless. As for carrying weapons, it is necessary for a natural person to prove that personal safety is at stake or could be threatened to such a extent that carrying weapons is necessary for his safety. How does it prove that someone's personal safety is significantly compromised? It doesn't say in this law that there is a procedure. It is also said: "The authorisation to carry a weapon is issued with a limited period of validity of five years. “ Isn’t it too long? We've given the amendment to have the gun license issued for a year, of course, with the possibility of an extension, but it's necessary to assess whether or not someone else's safety is still at risk every year. In the event of the death of the gun owner and the inheritance of the weapon, it is said to be six months from the date of acquisition, i.e. as an inheritance, to apply for weapons registration, either disable it or alienate it. "If the heir to the weapon is a minor, this deadline begins to run on the day of adulthood." Why the six-month deadline? Isn't it too long? On the other hand, what happens to these weapons if a minor is an heir to a weapon and is only able to submit a request when it is full-aged? So, is that weapon being deposited somewhere, kept? It's completely uninvited to leave a weapon with a minor. What's our biggest criticism of this law is legalization, that is, giving authority to periodically sign arms and ammunition legalisation. By announcing that there will be periodic legalisation of weapons, simply, you tell people not to legalize themselves in this first potential legalisation that will only come in a year, so that's another big problem, which means - I don't have to now, there will be more legalisation, we'll go the second time, I'll wait, maybe we don't accept the request now, etc. On the board, we've heard an estimate that there are between 200 and 900 thousand illegal weapons holders, between 200 and 900 thousand weapons. Isn't it too wide or should I say inconclusive? That looks like a Radovna Third to me, between 10 and 160. So, between 200 grand and 900,000 pieces of weaponry. Can't that estimate be made a little more accurate? It's simply inadmissible that our Home Office doesn't have a realistic estimate of how many illegal holders or weapons there are in our country. It is also written in Article 53 that within three months of the date of entry into force of this law it is possible to apply for the issue of an appropriate ID when it comes to the possession of weapons. For example, the law will enter into force around March 1st and only on March 1st next year will someone be able to apply for weapons legalisation. This means that we stimulate the trafficking of illegal weapons in these years so that it can be legalized in a year, so in 2016. I have also proposed that if necessary because of other provisions of this law, and the law comes into force only for a year, this provision should enter into force immediately. Why would we wait another year with the legalization of weapons? I really don't get it, if you can explain it to us. In doing so, we leave the possibility that a member of the 46th minister may call for the legalisation of weapons and ammunition periodically. Also, when it comes to obtaining and holding arms of legal persons and entrepreneurs, we say that the ministry can give legal persons in extremely justified cases, in accordance with the activity they are dealing with, to approve the purchase of automatic long weapons from the category, but it does not say anywhere what are extremely justified cases. So there is no definition in the law and it is simply a possible source of new irregularities or abuses. I'd like to get answers to these dozens of questions, so if I'm not satisfied, I'll take the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22342	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22343	Let's start with legalization. I don't think there's even ten minutes when I talked to Mr. Vukic about legalization. I said that we would propose that legalisation begin immediately on the eighth day since the publication of the law in the Official Messenger, so if we adopt theoretically during this week the law, on the eighth day of that day we can start legalizing. In that sense, I think we all agree that we shouldn't wait for that deadline. What it says in the text of the law isn't good enough. I saw it myself, and other MPs noticed it. I don't think that's where we argue at all. This situation is completely clean. As for occasional legalization, that is, if we were to look at it that way, but someone who gets caught with those weapons, convicted by the court and sent to the court for a life sentence, that second chance will work very far and will be sorry that he didn't take his first chance. Whether legalisation will be next in a year, ten, thirty, that depends on when conditions are obtained and when the minister prescribes it. Someone who holds an illegal hold, or who owns an illegal weapon, should fear and think every day whether these weapons will be found to him or if they will be sent to court and answer for it. As for the problem, we had problems. It's too long for legalization to be four, five, six, seven years apart and then obviously the need to do it more often appears. So that it would not always be prescribed when a general norm or similar act is passed, then it can be done this way. I think that's better than we've had before. We'll see, practice will show what results we'll have. As far as the evaluation is concerned, the UNDP's assessment was working. If they were the Radovan Third, if they weren't, I wouldn't really be qualified for their work. They gave that assessment, rented independent organisations that did it for the UNDP and gave the Republic to Serbia. We use their data. In the debate, I said I wasn't happy and I'm happy with that kind of information, in the sense that I think it's wide. But the problem arises – does anyone have a better estimate, does anyone have more precise information on how many illegal weapons are in the possession of citizens, when you know what's been going on and that Serbia has been largely exposed to different influences. As for weapons around people who need to deliver certain beliefs, for example. about whether they're securely threatened, it really doesn't stand in this law, but it's in the Police Act. There's a security assessment that's being made for every person, which is the same thing for people who have guns, who get permission to carry. The authorisation to be applied under the draft law shall be issued for a period of up to five years. She doesn't have to be betrayed for five years. At any moment, as the law provides, it can be taken away. So, after a security assessment that the circumstances or reasons why the permit was issued have ceased, it can also be withdrawn. In principle, for technical and financial reasons, so as not to harass people, there are people who have reasonable reasons, come every year, pay taxes, pay taxes, do all that, get their licenses back, get the administrative procedure, if nothing else, then we've predicted that deadline for five years, for as long as we've predicted and issued a doctor's conviction. As far as I'm concerned, our chips support now a permit that can be issued for up to ten years. We have a situation here to do very high-quality and precise determination of the reason why someone is getting a permit, which is why they are being issued to him and what he is doing with these weapons and, of course, that the police are being controlled from time to time, because I don't think we have more than 831 active permits on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which I don't think is too large. And it varies from year to year because certain people are being given permission, some are losing it, some are getting a new one. As far as punishment is concerned, what you said, you're right, that's where we agree. We were just discussing. The person who receives the gun license does not obtain it within six months and does not return it to the competent authority, the penalty is not prescribed and this member is brought into one kind of question. However, what would happen if they imposed a criminal punishment on that person? That means that this face would forever be disabled from ever getting a weapon again. Simply, the law says that any person who is punished, including by the provisions of this law, is no longer able to obtain weapons. We didn't want to, because of some exceptional circumstances, not to go into what it might be, make it impossible for a man to ever get a weapon again. You need to think again, maybe there's a better definition. I guess we can think about how to get some sublegal act to arrange communication with a person who didn't make that purchase and act to get that license back. I agree with you, it's not well enough solved, but we've been led to the fact that we don't make it impossible for our faces to get weapons permanently. As for the people who get a gun to the inheritance, they usually have a legal deadline to hand it over to the police within 45 days. This weapon is deposited into the police, i.e. the police warehouse, and after a court case or other solution to that outcome, it is possible to legalise the weapon, or translate it into itself. Automatic weapons, this one member who defines that under specific circumstances a particular company can be authorised to purchase automatic weapons, refers primarily to the Private Security Act, the FTO, which defines which institutions may and under what conditions have powers. Then we didn't want to double that norm, because in this law it's already foreseen. I tried to answer you briefly. I hope I haven't missed a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22344	Thank you. Does any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups, or authorised representatives, want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22345	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MUP, we are discussing nine draft laws today. I will focus on this first law, which is the most extensive, arms and ammunition law, by stressing that the law concerning fire protection, with all the objections that colleagues have made, is a law that we support. We believe that he has been through a great triage and that he has the support of both the public and the citizens of Serbia and that it is something that is also a pity that he did not exist before. Unlike this law, which is now being adopted, on fire protection, we think that the Law on Arms and Ammunition is not existentially important, it is necessary, certainly, but such a law itself will not, in our opinion, contribute to the degree of security in Serbia being somewhat higher or lower. I'm glad you're saying we have the lowest crime rate in the last two years. I don't know a single minister who came to Serbia's assembly and didn't say the same sentence. So, since 2000, I have been an MP, all ministers speak the same sentence, the same analysts write those reports, and today Serbia should be, probably, the safest country in the world, which is unfortunately not. Statistics, our Dick, you want that painting. It's not as ideal as you say it is. I wish he did. This law, which, I say, is necessary, but not sufficient conditions to improve the degree of security in Serbia, because unfortunately today Serbia faces a high crime rate, faces brutal executions, problems in the area of the border zone, and the interior ministry is inadmissible for a long time at the positions of the head of the criminal police administration and the border police administration. I mean, Mr. Minister, that's one of the things you have to solve, maybe even faster than this law. The Democratic Party will submit, i.e. She has already submitted more amendments to this law. We believe the law can be improved, because in some segments it is not accurate. I certainly expect that, as you have had the understanding of the amendments, or the proposals of your colleagues, and to include our proposals, consider, since our experience with the Government is such that it amends DS, as a rule, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or all ministers do not accept or have fewer ministers working on them. What I'd like to say right now by the dots. First, I believe it's an international nomenclature, related to the category of weapons, but I don't think it should stand in Article 4 of category C, it's said: old weapons and modern copies. I don't know why only modern copies of old weapons, but I certainly don't believe there's a house today that has a child who doesn't have a copy of the weapon. Unfortunately, it is a trend among children to play with such things, and copies that are being made are increasingly true to the originals, and I think that as such should be defined better, because later in other members it can create a problem, even children who play in the park. We don't think that a four-year period is sufficient for the criminally punished so that they can reapply to obtain permission to own a weapon. We think it's a minimum period of ten years. Someone who's had violent behavior, as a rule, is a returnee. We don't think such a person can run again to get permission. Unfortunately, those people who get a regular permit sometimes commit a crime. By stressing that, it should be said publicly, most of the crimes are not carried out with weapons owned by people registered, but carried out with non-registered weapons. What I think, regardless of what you say is UNDP statistics, is that it's very bad for the Ministry of Interior to have a number of 200 to 900 thousand. I understand some coefficient of error that can be up to 10-15%, but to be four and a half times, it's unacceptable. You'd better say 900,000 than to give such a wide range, because then it just shows that it's not done adequately and I don't know who studied it and worked for the UNDP. It is known that in countries such as Serbia and many other countries that have been in war conflicts, there is a large amount of non-legislative weapons. It is also known that Serbia is on a well-known path to narcotics and arms trafficking. It's all something that we've been dealing with, that we've been trying to solve for years, but I think it would have to, but some precision to show up, because this sounds a lot lay. What I also think should change in the bill. So in article 11, you defined in a very clear way who and how can come into possession of the armed list. It also writes how the armed list can be withdrawn, or taken away. I don't see any reason why an armed paper would only have five years to last. So all you're gonna do is do a job for the administration that deals with the issue of these armed papers. A large amount of weapons exist. So, if someone violates Article 11, does not meet some of the conditions necessary, I welcome the condition in which a health certificate is introduced, it is automatically withdrawn from possession or so on. Armed sheet. If I don't, I don't see why for five years, tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people would come to Mr. Kasalica and ask to extend their license. It would just rule a job for people who don't have to have that job. It is also foreseen that, in the event of the authorisation to carry arms, the authorisation shall be valid only with the armed list. I think it's an out-of-date method. I expect you, Mr. Minister, to adopt biometric weapons lists as soon as possible, also to adopt biometric weapons licenses. It's completely unnatural, unnecessarily, and it's not in line with the modernization that someone is carrying both books with them when this one is only issued on the basis of this one for possession. We think it's not good and it can be modernised. I expect, I see by noding my head, that we'll change that. Nice to meet you. Article 25 defines how a Serbian citizen applies to obtain a license to carry arms. So he has a license to own and is predicted - if he proves to be a citizen that his personal safety is compromised. I don't know in what procedure a citizen proves it. We'll give the amendment where we define that he needs to inform the MUP that his life is in danger. It's something that's enough, and the process of proof itself needs to be done by some other services. After all, there are MPs I know have certain threats. If they have to prove for themselves whether someone is serious, it's not serious, then it just doesn't stand. A colleague, Vukic, has opened a subject related to adult faces, in Article 26, and the use of gas sprays, i.e. electric shock devices. In Serbia recently, people over 16 can drive a car. A lot more people get killed in car accidents than they get from electroshocks or gas sprays. I think that line should go down to a minimum of 16 years. It's a shame it can be so much so that at some school, I say, young men and girls play and hurt each other at the moment, but it can be a great benefit to save at least one child from some bully, and we're witnessing that this is happening in our society. That bully doesn't have to be just a human being, he can be an animal. So, I think that line can go down. For DS MPs, 16 years is something that's acceptable, could even be lower, but whatever. We think the amendment we've submitted is where better than these 18 years. In Article 31, there's one thing that doesn't make sense. So, it is established – if a person who has an orderly licence, as well as a carryer, finds that his weapon is missing, whether stolen, lost, does not matter, has 48 hours to report. In 48 hours, you can do so many crimes that you can't get to write down what happened to that weapon. I believe that someone is obliged, first, to secure their weapons, and second, when he finds out that there are no weapons, immediately, but immediately, report to the competent authority, or police station in his place. I don't see why we'd give someone 48 hours and if the idea was that there was room for that weapon to come back by chance or something. It's something to change. In Article 42, this is now a matter of administration, I believe that someone from the administration of the MUP accidentally skipped or deliberately, it is not important, it is said that when carrying weapons or ammunition, I remind you that precisely what is defined is what is involved in weapons and ammunition, it can be mine-explosive means, means that can cause great damage, and not just individual, let me say, guns and so forth, it is a duty for those who do transport to make a 48-hour transport request for a solution or approval to do that transport. Of course, the MUP needs to issue a solution, secure, possibly a route, or order what measures should be taken by the one carrying the means. However, Article 42 has not defined what time-limit the MUP is required to issue that agreement. I think this way of silenceing the administration is also a matter of problem, if companies are obliged to do so within two days, means before the transport itself. I think you have to accept an amendment in which the MAP will issue that solution within two days or be treated after two days as a silence of the administration in which the arms transport is practically approved. This is what I'm saying, not just from the aspect of having personal weapons, but of course this is from the aspect of our dedicated industry factories for which every export requires agreement of the MUP. Sometimes this agreement must be significantly faster, and if they have an obligation to report within 48 hours, means before transport, to report that transport, I think that then the MUP should also take on adequate activities and, within that same time limit, issue a solution and practically establish which route, as well as so, can be done. Is it necessary that one involved in the transport of weapons must also provide certain conditions, security, as you said to the FTO and so on. The Democratic Party will support the law, I have already said, on fire protection, on arms and ammunition law, we expect that, and I see that you are in the mood to accept the amendments, not only of our parties, but of all the well-intentioned MPs who are running the debate here today, I believe that if you accept amendments, or in debates explain why they are not acceptable to you, we can also support this law. I say, this law is one of the necessary conditions, but far from enough conditions for a higher level of security in Serbia. I'm saying this as someone who's been doing these jobs for almost 15 years. I think that, as much as it looks better than it did, citizens themselves are aware that there is an extremely easy conflict in Serbia today where we have even human victims. I think one thing you said you shouldn't have potential, which is that field work in Serbia was taken away over a year by a little over 1,000 pieces of weapons, and that through legalisation, 7,000, 2007 and 2003 respectively. Forty and a few thousand. It's more worth those 1,000 pieces of weapons you confiscate by field work than these 7,000 thousand that are legalized, because the police are doing it, let me say, in the field. Those who are legalized, I suppose, are mostly at home or in some hidden places. So, what's found on the ground is something that there's a possibility of being practically abused and used for some criminal activity, God forbid, for some murders. So, I'd like you to force that part of the job first. Legalization itself is a good thing, but I think there are inaccuracies, or not enough to just report someone, or, if we say he doesn't have to prove his origin, I think there's got to be an expert on that weapon. I don't think you can register a weapon that doesn't have a factory serial number, which means it's typed and stuff. Also, there's got to be an expert on whether or not a crime has been committed with that weapon. I didn't see it in the law, maybe some other law predicts it. But it's pretty wide, it'll turn out that whoever can buy a gun can practically sign up when there's legalization and legalize it without any checks. We believe that this is not a good solution and that, if anything else, it must at least be checked, and that the weapon used or the weapon numbered, must be legalized in the way that it is provided for by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22346	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22347	Of course, the situation is not ideal, I never claimed it, and every life that is lost is always a tragedy for both this family and those people and their friends, all the people who knew those people. We're trying, of course, to keep that number as small as possible. What is true, statistics can be viewed one way or another, but if you have that we had, for example. In 2004, in 39, 2005, 46, 2006, 626, in 24 murders, and in 2014, 11 murders, however, indicate that it is drastically less on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Someone can look at it one way or another, but 11 is much less than 46. Forty-six people were killed in 2005, 46 people lost their lives with tools or weapons, with a urine or a sharp object. It also happened with firearms, 43-2004, 40-2005, 28-2009, 27-2008, to have 2014 11 killed, 17 attempts, and in 2007, we had 92 attempts with cold, or 63 attempts with firearms. So, a drastically larger number of people are at risk. A greater brutal execution of the murder of people using the most monstrous methods. It was our reality and years. You don't have to run from it. The earth has progressed, changed some things, sharpened criminal measures. Of course, it's not just a matter of repressive organs, we agree, the police can't do everything, but we'll try to be extremely operational on the ground and that all this stuff that you've been talking about is that this work on confiscation of weapons that ends with a person who apparently intends to commit a certain criminal or criminal act, to strengthen that work. Unfortunately, that weapon that's in the hands of the people who probably keep it at home, unfortunately, is somehow reaching the hands of criminals for various reasons. So it's important that these two processes go parallel. As for your suggestions, I have to say there are some things I agree with. As far as the armed list is concerned, I felt that for five years it might be insufficient if it were people who could definitely be taken away for different legal reasons. I think there's been an amendment, and we'll take 10 years for the gun list. The medical license must remain for five years, for such reasons as I trust you to support it. We had one problem with issuing a permit to persons who committed a violation in four years' time, unfortunately the Law on Infractions says that the offence was deleted after four years from the record and we no longer have a chance after that and that was the reason. I'd take it personally for 20 years. I completely agree in that sense of security, but this is to comply with the Law of Infraction. As far as biometrics are concerned, that's where we predicted, I think it's on the M.O.P. site, this is what the documents will look like, as a driver's license, biometric documents for carrying and holding guns, and that's a good thing, to finally improve that. Now, in the case of a person with multiple weapons of personal safety, more guns and guns, they'll only have one permit to carry a weapon. So that face can carry one weapon, but in biometric data and other data that's in the chip will see all the weapons legally owned, if there's that gun that he has with him, that's fine. He won't have to have a special permit for every piece of weapon. I think that's a good thing and that it improves some part of it, especially if I believe that people who work at the Administration of Administrative Affairs have a really large number of applications during the day. As for the arguments, I accept your argument, it is impossible for anyone to prove that his personal safety is compromised. An ordinary man can't do that. That's where we agree, we'll change it according to your proposal, that the actual burden of proof be on the MUP. With that, the initial way of thinking was to refer to people who, because of their professional activity until then, had the opportunity to show that they were doing that kind of work, which could have put their lives at risk because it was thought that such a type of people would probably be represented in the largest number of those who were looking for a license to carry a weapon. Of course, all we have to think about is how we don't bury the police with tens of thousands of demands for a threat check now, because it's going to be a new job for the police, for which no one will actually pay us. So, we have to keep an eye on it, and I'm asking you just to look at it and to define it more precisely through the amendment of the committee, to ensure legal certainty for citizens who are asking for permission, but also for the police, to get into that problem. As for Article 31, the 48-hour deadline is too long and I propose to the Defence Committee, since he is now authorized to do so, it is something that we could accept, which is to write - to hand over the weapons immediately, and for 24 hours at the most, to remain 24 hours for various reasons, in a procedural sense, that a citizen can hand over that weapon, in terms of moment... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I didn't mean it.) So that's what we could accept. In the end, let me say that I think the whole debate during the day was in the right direction and that most people who took part in the arms and ammunition debate tried to fix the law. My goal is as minister to make everyone as comfortable as possible, which makes the law easier and easier to apply, of course, the security of the citizens will be the same, and I thank everyone I have not succeeded in the debate so far. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: short replica. Invalid interpretation.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22348	There's no basis for that, but the discussion was constructive. Let me finish my thought. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22349	I have a Mr. Chairman, I have a basis, since we didn't understand, it means misread. He spoke only to report the disappearance of the weapon, not to find it. So, Article 31 says that when he finds out that his weapon is missing, there's 48 hours of time to report it missing. Which would take 48 hours for the missing person to sign up on the phone. That's what I don't think that deadline should be right now. Second thing, you said earlier that you wouldn't get paid. I think it's very skillful to assume the finance minister and now he's manipulating the budget. It's all paid. Any citizen who gets a gun license will pay for his license, but also a gun-holding tax, and from that tax, it should go to you for the job you're doing. Well, if you have a relationship at the Treasury, maybe you can finish it. I mean, I want to help you here in the Assembly vote, but I know the finance minister gets picked up thanks to your job, picks out income, and then gives it up for a guy named Jellyzar, for example. I welcome the Administration for Administrative Affairs, which has proposed new biometric permits, but I still don't think it's necessary to wear both of them for possession and the gun list. This one for difolt possession means you have the gun list. Why would they have both of them? So that's something I think is necessary. Mr. Minister, let me tell you, I don't know this statistics by heart. I know that only in domestic violence has five women been killed in Serbia this year. You said just 14 in one year there were murders in total. So there's only five women in domestic violence this year, not to mention shooting at businessmen, that Raconjac was killed by long pipes in a way that wasn't seen in the '90s, etc. So it's not that statistic mirror, so the number of murders if you have one that... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22350	Two minutes, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22351	I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22352	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22353	So, as far as this is concerned, it can stand -- in case he notices the disappearance of a registered weapon is immediately due, and up to 24 hours at most, so that we don't -- right away, so that it doesn't, if after an hour I have to punish him. Therefore, for a variety of reasons, the maximum of 24 hours is required to report a disappearance to the competent authority. I guess all the people whose gun is really going to need to do it as quickly as possible so that their weapons don't end up in a felony and don't become themselves, to say the victims of such a procedure. As far as money is concerned, we always try not to transfer a part of the burden just to the citizens and in some previous period when millions and millions of dollars were given to Jelizar every year and when workers were trembling whether they would be busy and whether the factory would remain in our possession or not, today the government is acting much more responsibly. He's not throwing those millions, he's trying to take responsibility for the workers, but also for the RS. As far as this goes, I think we can do it. As far as statistics go, I agree again, statistics aren't everything, and I'm not just doing statistics. We're trying to increase security. For me, any shot without any victim, anyone who uses a weapon to shoot, even if it's not a good indicator in the air, because someone can always get hurt and people's safety is threatened, and what I certainly think is necessary is a wider social action not only about weapons, but not just for society at all, and it can't just be done by the MUP. It must really be one more serious action than education, than family, training, and ultimately, everything is in training. People who are well-dressed rarely will do such a thing. To draw people's attention to what may be the consequences, but also one impartiality of the police, the indiscriminate punishment to know that nothing will protect them after the crime has been committed. I think then people will be more careful in doing these acts, and of course we will try to shed light on as many as possible... Today, we have over 80% of light-headed murders and attempted murders. Is that enough? I'm not satisfied until it's 100%. We're going to fight to make every new one, even though it's the police, and I'm giving credit to the people who worked on it in the previous year, who did a lion's job and caught the perpetrators of some of the most serious crimes in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22354	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22355	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, co-workers from the MUP, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, this is one of those days when I am really proud to be in the Serbian Parliament and the debate and the arguments that can be heard today, and the behaviour of all MPs in the debate, should indeed be enjoyed by the citizens of Serbia, because this is an example of a practical, serious and truly concrete work in the Serbian Parliament and this is how we should correct the standard of living in Serbia, our normative and, of course, what our role is in addition to lawmaking, which is to control, or to exercise control over the proposed legislation. Today's discussion would begin once, say, with 221. I would like the citizens to remember first of all from this debate that this proposal for a law on arms and ammunition, which is now the first on the agenda, I will talk about the others, brings two goals, namely to the realization of two very important objectives, which is control of property and arms trafficking, thus significantly preventing abuse and certainly improving the security of citizens in Serbia. The second goal is to allow legal and security owners of weapons to be legally owned and used for the sole purpose. First of all, I think of sports societies, collectors, hunting societies, all those people who use weapons in an extremely legal way where there is no possibility of abuse. So that was the first two. The other two are two new conditions for obtaining a license to own a weapon, which is a health and justifiable reason for having a licence to carry, or hold a weapon. The last unit from 221 is that this is a whole new bill. Why have we decided on a new bill, that is, why has the Proposer decided on a whole new bill and not on amendments and additions to the existing ones? The reason for this is that all existing normative solutions that regulate this area have been reviewed and it has been found that they differ significantly from those that prescribe European directives, and that is because of all of this, it has been approached to create a completely new text of the law, not to amend and supplement the existing, and in line with this, that we really define aspects of arms, arms and ammunition control at all levels in the country. In line with our intention to define, enable all aspects of this arms control we have accessed the UN programme to prevent, combat and eradicate arms trafficking, as well as the UN Protocol on Firearms and this has created certain international obligations for Serbia to implement the firearms control measures. So, that's another reason why we've joined the building of a brand-new gun law. I would also repeat what can be said today several times, because it is worrying, that Serbia is estimated to have between 200,000 and 900,000 pieces of weaponry, because it is one number that really upsets, especially if we assume which types of violence crimes can be produced. It's easy to explain why this war environment was happening. It was very easy to access illegal weapons and thus we created an atmosphere of general uncertainty, precisely because of these weapons that are so easily available. At the same time, in addition to illegal weapons, the health care ability of those who handle or possess weapons has not been checked. That is why we have witnessed many tragic events in our country. Finally, the previous law was passed in 1992, so over 20 years is being applied, and it was necessary to make these amendments, especially if we have in mind both the European Directives and our process where we comply with the law of the European Union. So when we talked about tightening the conditions for weapons possession, I said two completely new -- health skills and a legitimate reason for weapons possession. The establishment of health skills earlier existed as a possibility only when it was supplied with weapons, not if it was owned by someone. Now it's quite different and it's going to be fixed for five years, but since we're already talking about different amendments to the law today, we haven't talked about it for now, but I personally think it might agree with me that five years is too long that something can't happen, or what we'd say, gets in the head of a certain man and that having a weapon can cost someone dearly. We can talk about all this. When I spoke about that good atmosphere today in the Serbian Parliament, you could also see that the minister has accepted many amendments and that we will still talk about it, but I will also remind you that for this and the other laws that are on the agenda today, a public debate has been held in which the public has been extremely active, professional public and citizens of Serbia. Comments and suggestions have been respected, numerous objections and suggestions have come to the MPs and members of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, which is responsible for this law, so that we have indeed tried very hard to meet all those who deal with this law and this law will have a great impact on their lives. I think this is one of the few laws where we have achieved this kind of consent, and only thanks to one tolerance, concrete work and the desire to advance this bill. I would really like this to be a way of working in the Serbian Parliament and that we are all trying to improve the laws in the best possible way, and we are not twisting with the opportunities of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, with the maximum creativity of the Serbian MPs in which we have convinced ourselves, so that we can turn somewhere in the debate in the wrong direction. A few more things about the Arms Act, and then I'll move on to the other laws. It was very interesting to me that the police were left with the possibility that a discretionary assessment would prohibit the possession of weapons when it was established that the owner might abuse them. The law here also provided for stricter punishment for abuses and an unconscious relationship with weapons, a stricter criminal policy has been tightened, making it possible for any failure of the actions provided for in the provisions of this law to impose criminal penalties with the possibility of giving a safeguarded measure of confiscation of weapons and ammunition. It is also limited to the possibility of providing weapons at the service, compared to an earlier solution, by requiring the owner of the weapon to be present during the duration of the service. Overall, this draft increases the owner's responsibility for the weapons he owns. It is interesting that when I spoke about the other objective of this law, which is that those legal and security weapons owners can actually use and own their weapons without delay, this goal is achieved by being conditionally said that the privileged status is given to registered sportsmen and collectors, who have indeed proved to be the most conscious among gun owners. This is also seen in the release of weapons handling training and giving the possibility to collect ammunition to members of shooting and hunting organisations. Easier conditions for the supply of weapons and ammunition to collectors have been laid down, while reducing some of the administrative procedures that exist for this category of gun owners. So, an important newspaper is also a collector's license. It's not time-limited, it allows for multiple weapons. This will also simplify the procedure for the procurement of weapons to hunters, sportsmen and similar categories of persons, and this is where the state authorities are unloaded, and we have discussed it, where we are actually going to come up with a smaller number of requests for the supply of weapons. We have a new class of weapons called "unmanaged weapons". It enables citizens to hold certain pieces of weapons for them, without obligation to meet the conditions for obtaining a licence, or issuing an armed list, with the notification to the competent authority. What may also be interesting for foreigners in our country, it is possible for these laws to allow foreigners who do not have a permanent residence in Serbia to acquire weapons from category B and C, based on the approval for the purchase and export of weapons, and a way of obtaining weapons from members of diplomatic and consular representatives and foreigners who have been granted temporary stay in our country. This is very interesting, from the point of view of diplomacy, i.e. different visits to our country, different politicians, officials, prominent figures, because, as we can see, today some visit can be the most well-intentioned through different channels to get the wrong context and to make some small things less important. I'd just like to say a few more things about legalisation and surrender actions because it has proved that legalizations are the most effective measure of reducing the amount of weapons. We could hear that since 1992, five legalisation procedures have been carried out. The last one was in 2007, then it was said -- about 8.5,000 weapons were handed over. In 2003, as many as 47,852 weapons were handed over. What makes me say 8.5 and almost 48 thousand pieces were handed over in those legalizations? We could also have heard today, and I want to repeat that over the year, the police have discovered between a thousand and a half pieces of weapons in illegal possession, which means that with this one legalization, we have a much greater effect on the reduction of the number of weapons in illegal possessions than in five years of police work. Although a colleague who had previously said that this was not something to brag about, we should not look on that side, on that aspect. We should watch what really improves the safety of citizens, which is to hand over illegal weapons, and we will work simultaneously through all channels, and the activity of the police on the ground that will work on the seizure of illegal weapons and the activities of occasional legalisation. I absolutely support the proposal in this law that there should be occasional legalization and that the fact that someone is thinking that in some, I will not surrender now, I will turn over in the next year or two, that man should consider that if he is, as the minister has noted, caught up with the next illegal weaponisation in his possession, he will be severely punished. When we talk about the Arms and Ammunition Act, there's a lot of newspapers. The fact that we are all "for" in the Serbian Parliament today and the involvement of the professional public, sports associations, hunters, collectors, gives us the right to ask everyone to absolutely support this bill. A bill on amendments and amendments to the Fire Protection Act could be heard a lot of things, a lot of smart things today. Once again, I'm proud because one initiative that had one tragic occasion arrived in the form of a legal solution and there was only the first step. What we have now mentioned in this law, and what will significantly ensure the safety of citizens in this area, when it comes to fire protection, is only the first step. The next phase is control, control of implementation, how much this law is actually implemented. Here again, we will have to work together, and we in parliament, through competent committees and competent institutions in Serbia. Once again, what I always insist on, that only we MPs here in parliament, when we get a certain law, are only one in a series of alkas on a chain that makes a solution. It's necessary, not just for us here, to work and to exercise control later. We have to do this together with the public, the citizens, to get instructions, initiatives from the public, and after that, with the help of NGOs and the professional public and the media, we come to a good solution together, and I repeat, we are again controlling whether this solution is being implemented. In this one closed circle alone, we will really be able to fix the standard of living in Serbia. I'll talk very briefly about the agreements that are on the agenda today. I am sorry that, because of the importance of the first two laws, we have heard little about these agreements that are extremely important, useful and practical to the lives of the population in the border area between Serbia and Romania, when we talk about agreements that we have opened new border crossings. I will only repeat again, these are the border crossings "Jasa Tomic – Fenj" at the Serbian-Romanian border, then "Vrbica – Valkanj", also the same territory, and "Nakovo-Lunga", also at the Serbian-Roman state border. We forget that somewhere we are expected to comply with EU legislation and somewhere at every turn, it seems to me that all our laws may not follow all these future developments. These agreements, these bill proposals aren't like that. This has indeed been done in line with European legislation, they are also promoting as many border crossings as possible, to allow faster and more practical transport of goods and people within the EU zone. A memorandum of understanding on the institutional framework of an initiative for prevention and preparedness in the event of disasters for the region of South East Europe and an agreement with Hungary on mutual assistance in the event of disasters, sounds likely but it is very, very important especially when we remember those natural disasters that hit us in the previous period. It seems to me that we have all forgotten and turned to some other everyday events, but precisely in light of the fact that the laws, how these laws really are implemented, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs will in June this year have a meeting of the countries of Southeast Europe, where we will actually talk about what we did a year after the flood in our countries, therefore, in the region of Southeast Europe. Mr. Maric has been very helpful in preparing this meeting and will certainly be one of the important speakers at the meeting, and these agreements can contribute to saying that this is something we did in the previous period. Of course, I mention Mr. Maric, because he is someone most often mentioned in emergency situations, but we also need the help of the entire Ministry of Defence and other relevant ministries of environmental protection, i.e. agriculture. We're all going to have to work together because the way people behave on planet Earth, and I end up with this, I'm away from the law, in a lot of reverse nature. I think if we don't really ask ourselves what we've done a year after these floods, and I'd also invite the media to control us strictly, what it is that we've done so that we don't get hit like that again. If we haven't done much, let's go faster, let's make even better action plans. Thank you. You'll vote for these laws, I can see from today's discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22356	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has been made by MP Dragan Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22357	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Arms Act, the colleagues who spoke before me are quite a lot, and especially Mrs. Obradovic, I would not like to repeat myself. What I'm trying to say, first of all, to the respected Minister Stefanovic, is - Minister, I come from the Forest. We Sumadinians have always been well-armed since the time of Karadjord, but the Shumadinians ask when will this harbinger, this tax that was introduced to arms be abolished? And they ask, "Give us a land where there is this much more tax on weapons, on holding and on carrying, on weapons." I mean, when Seselj introduced it, we were all saying -- it's going to be, I don't know, two, three, five years, and we see that he stayed. What is an additional problem, Mr. Stefanovic, is that unfortunately, the branches of the tax administration for 10 years have not sent solutions for that tax and now people who own a gun in their possession, for example, do not know which type, have received 70 to 100,000 dinars, with interest, to pay that tax. I'm asking you to simply, at the government, force those interest rates to be written off, so that people can pay that tax correctly and settle their taxes on weapons, because we're free to talk about laws if the tax will be one of the reasons that as many weapons as possible go to say, in some gray zone. The data we've received officially, it's a data that's, like, enough, I have to say, a little bit and unserious, that these pieces of weaponry in some gray or black zone is between 200,000 and 900,000. Well, look, it's a 700,000 piece of data. It's impossible for an operational evaluation of the MUP to be so inaccurate. It just doesn't get in my head. What I'd like to ask you, it seems to me, when I read this law, and since I don't have a lot of time, that this law gets hunters, gets people out of a hobby and, let's say, some needs go into that hunt and shoot animals, this law gets collectors, but this law somehow gives people who are family, peaceful people, and here I'm putting you and myself in charge of those and who want to have guns because of, above all, the dangerous times that come and want to protect their family, are left on the discretionary right of someone in the MUP who will decide whether that man will be able to get a license to hold and carry guns. It really seems illogical to me, and it seems to me like a field where corruption can come about. That's why, Mr. Stefanovic, please, that first of all, I don't know if you're familiar with the fact that in a crowd, for example. In the interior of Serbia, these police stations, are still living as in Broz's time, this moral political advantage, whether or not some grandfather was a Chetnik, which is why he cannot get a permit, for example. to hold arms. That, unfortunately, I'm telling you, this, I come from Topola, from the Forest, and that's basically Serbia for you today. That is why this discretionary right now, which some official there, in some ministry, needs to be reduced to as little as possible and that we have clear criteria that only the ministry needs, whether it will be some sublegal act, should be prescribed and thus resolve the issue – whether someone has the right or not to bear. Already, colleagues asked who would assess someone’s threat. It's the same valid question, and I'm afraid we can have some abuses there again. I'm interested in one more thing, which probably interests all the citizens who watch this transmission and who expect what will happen concretely after the adoption of this law. How much is it going to be, for example? cost that new biometric gun license. Another question that is concrete and that is – how many pieces of weapons can be entered on one biometric permit? Will it be like in Slovenia? There you can have up to 14 pieces of weaponry, whether it's going to be determined here, say the differences, or we'll be able to do the same as the Slovenians and the Croats did, and the Croats prescribed it from them, to make it up to 14. Something I'd like to ask you in particular, which is an inheritance. We have a bunch of examples in Serbia, which is that people inherit from relatives, parents, and weapons. Is it hunting, are they self-defense weapons? It happens that a man inherits a gun and inherits a car, I don't know, golf 2 or golf 3. And now he gets that property, the car, no problem at all, if he doesn't have a driver's license, he translates on himself, and God forbid, with that car, and we're all witnesses of how many people die daily in traffic accidents, he can even drive without a license. On the other hand, if it's a hunting weapon, it has a six-month deadline to translate it onto itself. In order to translate it into himself he has to take about five steps, which is technically, Mr. Minister, very difficult, practically impossible in six months. That deadline should be extended for at least a year. Why does it matter? He must, a man, train if he didn't serve the army, then enroll, take courses, enroll in the Hunters' Association, complete the training there, and pass it all. It's practically, I say, in six months to do the impossible. You, on the other hand, have this man that, I don't know, he's going to pour lead in a pipe of that weapon, and that way he's going to leave it, or he's going to try to bring it back to the MUP or something else. On the other hand, a car that's got an inheritance that doesn't have a license, no problem, can put it on the market, still sell it, and with guns it's not like that. I think these deadlines could either be longer or this way to do it more effectively. What I am also interested in has already been mentioned by my colleagues in this medical belief. I think there's only one way to make co-operation more effective. If we remember that big accident that was in that village of Jabukovac, I mean, right next to Negotina in 2007. That man was a grave mental patient. He had a license to hold arms, and they said he reported two or three times he had reported against him by family members, neighbors, and no one intervened. I think it should be connected, so, from the Centre for Social Work, which is most often in local self-government familiar with these problems, with the MUP, and based on the first occurrence of family violence recorded in the Centre, to automatically confiscate weapons, because that is the only way you can in an effective way prevent such accidents from happening if they were in Jabukovac, as was later this great accident in Great Ivanca, where there were 13 victims, from happening again. What's very important, and that's legalization...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22358	You've wasted your time with the group. Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22359	Thank you. Let's start with this last thing you said. That is why a medical examination is being introduced to ensure that someone fulfils these conditions and that will be prescribed by the Ministry of Health. So someone meets the conditions that they can even own a weapon. Unfortunately, in the case he was with this village of Applekovac. We had a face that lived in Austria. He was reported, but he wasn't available to our organs. The first time he appeared in the country, when he came to the country, he committed this act. So, I'm not just saying to anyone that we've noticed that there are such things, and that's why this health license, the health certificate that's going to go on every five years, gives you some kind of guarantee that people are going to have, to say, one additional control, not just through the MUP, but through health workers, whether they can carry and own weapons. As far as guns are concerned. Weapon as well as car absolutely can be sold without registration. You by this law, if you continue it, you don't have to register it, you can alienate it, disable it, turn it over to the state, whatever you want. You don't have to keep it. So it's exactly the same as the car. It doesn't make any difference. Look into the law. As far as the threat assessment is concerned. The threat is assessed by all the competent institutions that do so and for the top state leaders, the MUP, the BIA and the Military Security Service. They're giving a threat assessment. You know, there are people who believe they're compromised but there's no evidence of that. They believe, because they would like to carry weapons, they would like to have police security, they would like to ride in a police car and use police fuel for the cost of Serbian citizens. There's a lot of guys like that, and I've faced a lot of people in this career and they're complaining when I take away their security. - No, we're very endangered, us, here, only they're not, etc. I look at all the evaluations, I deliver them to security services, they say there is no threat. So you know who's in the state authorized by law to assess the threat. That's what he's gonna do from now on. As for the interior of the police station. I've visited a lot of police, management, a lot of police stations and a lot of police stations. I try not to be announced, whenever I go through Serbia, I go in, I look at the state of everything, what their readiness is. Of course, there are a lot of problems materially, and the technical police are not great because for years, unfortunately, it's not enough, because, of course, the state always has obstacles to the needs of the economy, industry and, of course, everything else. Of course, we insist that security should not be neglected and exist, and I will come before the National Assembly when I negotiate with the Government. I also had a few suggestions that we could hear here today that certain funds, since we abolished our own ministry revenues in 2012, are therefore that certain funds that the Ministry is making are being transferred to the Ministry's account do not even have to be unintended, but strictly dedicated to the supply of certain equipment and material-technical funds for the reconstruction of buildings. Some police buildings, I say, have not been touched since the '50s in terms of reconstruction and reparation. That's where we even have it in Belgrade. I think it's called Savska Street, where the center is the observable traffic police, and really these people work in terrible conditions. The reconstruction of these objects is extremely expensive. Some have been destroyed in NATO bombing, some have eaten the tooth of time. So, I'm going to try to make sure that when it comes to issuing those beliefs and when it comes to issuing permits, that there's not exactly what you're talking about. So every citizen under the law will now be able to make a complaint to the minister about the solution being handed to him. He's not going to be able to turn down someone on him because he doesn't like his grandfather or because he doesn't like him. If there are legal conditions, that person, as is normal, will have to exercise his legal right. Of course, that's why in the police reform, in this Police Act, we're going to predict a new and stronger internal police control sector that will then be able to tour, but now with 90 and a few, 96 members at this point, they can't do the job for 43 or 44 thousand members of the ministry. Anyway, some of these things are, which you said, I've already considered, some have already been introduced into the law. As far as taxes are concerned. We as the Ministry don't determine the amount of taxes. He's not even going to us. These are the republican taxes that go in, I say, into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. What I have consulted with Mrs. Kasalica, these fees that will not be foreseen from now on, at least so far no one has informed us, are scheduled to increase them. The gun list itself is 132 dinars. So that's what I think really isn't much for someone who wants to own a weapon. As for the others, it's going to be the cost of making, which is the law and predicted, the cost of making only these cards that will be the license. I think it's also normal for someone who wants to have a weapon to bear the cost of making that card, because it just belongs to him. So, there are things that we need to talk about and we should, of course, predict, say, some changes and through the debate today I think some changes are quality that will help make the law more effective, but I'm asking you to, in future, what the law is, I hope to say, bring it to the end of this week, but I also hope that you will all continue to help in terms of improvement. You know, something happens in six months to a year, we shouldn't be stubborn, so something, because it was brought in February now we can't change it in June. If it's a qualitative change through changes and additions that, because life is still going, then we need to recognize what life carries and build on these things. Anyway, thank you very much for your suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22360	Thank you. The word has Aleksandar Jugovic, and get Muamer Bačevac ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22361	The Honorable Minister, the Honorable President of Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, has not been in this legal matter for more than two decades, I mean the Arms Act, no one has dealt with it. Governments passed, ministers and the interior ministry were replaced, but no one was paying attention to this very important issue. Circumstances change, i.e. They changed and created the need to edit this legal legal space. The arms law is very important because of the specificity of the periods we've been going through in the last decade of the 20th century, and it's important in general. The consequences and the day we live in some way today. Accidents, victims, war hotspots have affected generations that grew up in the ambience of all kinds of crises and depression, and war events reflect the streets of Belgrade and other Serbian cities. Weapons have become easily available, and idols of young people, war profiters, criminals, drug dealers, weapons, people. Weapons are estimated to have entered Serbia illegally more than half a million pieces. That is why the task of solving this problem is more difficult. That's our past, and we can't change it. Today, on the agenda, there is a law in front of MPs aimed at curbing crime. More specifically, it determines who can carry or own weapons. I hope that this law will have an impact on the fight against domestic violence, as well as on the repression of violence on the streets, incident situations that are rarely fatal. Therefore, sport, collection and clearly defined criteria, precise definition of the conditions prescribed by the new Arms Act, are also the harmonisation of the law to European standards that are regulated or prescribed by the Schengen Agreement. I would also refer to amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act. For the last five years, therefore, since the current law was adopted to date, there has been a need to establish more effective control that implies a higher degree of object safety, primarily with a catering purpose, but also to control the safety of objects serving science, culture, physical education, education. The Serbian Renewal Movement in the voting day will support the interior ministry's proposals, as we believe they increase the level of security and create steps-by-step conditions to reduce the crime rate. Serbia needs order in the area of security, especially when we are on the road to transit of world and European movements and that almost all roads lead across Serbia. That is why we appreciate the efforts to improve the security environment by amending legislative regulations. So the Serbian Renewal Movement MP, the Democratic Party of Serbia, will support the interior ministry's proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22362	The People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac has the word, and let Vera Paunovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22363	The Honorable Assembly, presidents of the Assembly, the Presidency, distinguished ministers and esteemed guests, fellow MPs, that the fires were a great risk for the state of Serbia, and I will remind you that in 2012 alone, we had about twenty large fires, mostly forest fires, which caused major damage economically first of all, about 50m euros only in that year was economic damage. In 2010, there were 84 fires in Belgrade alone, much worse than the economic losses we had in those fires were the losses of young people's lives that we unfortunately had in Novi Sad and we had the death of three girls and three young men at the New Sad discotheque "Contrast", and a few years before that at the Laundj cafe we had eight people dead and all of this had deeply shaken us, but in the most painful way presented to us all the weaknesses of our fire-fighting system, either functionally or in the legislative meaning of that word. That's when we learned that there are 3,000 firefighters in the Republic of Serbia, that according to European standards, there should be about 8,000 of them. We've learned that the condition of the equipment is really bad and that we have a lot of unquality, or a lot of old equipment as far as I've come up with. The average age was 24.5 years of that mechanization, but we also learned that we have extremely good firefighters who on average at the scene arrive at the scene of the fire in nine minutes, which is relatively good, or good time, and that shows that we have quality firefighters, but that they really need a lot of help even though this is a financial big problem, because they've been given vehicles very expensive, how much I've seen that it really works better and reacts better at that point. We see a legislative gap today and today, and we are trying to bring it down, and that's very good, and I'm glad that you brought this bill up so quickly. How much I have seen that even this 2009 law, which practically applied in 2010, is based on some sublegal acts that are old, and they are even up to thirty years old, and I heard that some of the regulations of 1983 are really a huge distraction that we hope today, by adopting this law, to try to bridge, because there is a real improvement in fire extinguishing technique and this is extremely lightning. You know, you're also making progress in fire reporting, you're making progress in technology at all, the Internet, and all of this is being used today for the best protection against fire. These supplements are random because they provide greater security and security just by establishing a clear chain of responsibility. In fact, the most important point here, which I hope we will all support, is the transfer of the obligation to obtain consent on the measures implemented against fires from the authority of the authority to issue such practical permits to the investor, i.e. to the owner of the facility. This paper should certainly be established as well as what is the other important thing that I have seen, is that it is practically better to exchange the area of the organisation and the way the fire-saving units work, which is, as far as I can see, vitally, because firefighters today are not just firefighters. Today, firefighters are first and foremost rescuers and their diapazon of action has really changed and expanded, and this should certainly be legislatively justified and legislatively official. Serious work is primarily needed on the mentality of our people and on changing our ill-circumcised habits. There's a huge number in the open fields that I found from a thousand to two in August, we have a week of fire, where people just burn weeds and burn it like that. I even heard they burn weeds that can't regulate later, leave it and go for a drink. This law has the possibility of punishment, it has existed in the past form, but I think 10,000 dinars are too little and it really needs to be sanctioned more seriously, since it has been seen that they can threaten even human lives if the fires are near significant traffic. For the change of bad habits, education is important, and I am glad that through education we return from education, because there was a gap of about thirty years where our children did not learn how to practically protect themselves and how to prevent and get out of fires and other disasters. So I really support the addition we are introducing to this new article 6a, which provides for education for children and students in the area of fire protection. However, I think it would be extremely important and useful to make up some family manuals that existed before, that they contain some basic rules on how to keep people in the earthquake, during the flood, from fires and those basic rules should have every house in our Republic. The fires didn't spare the end I came from, and that's Sandzak, I'm from New Market. But fortunately, we haven't had a loss of human life, but there's really been a lot of damage to the eco system. We had a lot of forest fires. I will remind you that in 2013, one factory, or two plants, burned down for us, an extremely important factory called Tahirović, and about 100 people were out of work. So the fires also have major economic damage and you can see that they can directly damage workers. Also, one Smailbegović han facility burned down in the city centre of the same year, unfortunately I attended and watched and indeed proved to be a dysfunction. The firemen arrived on time, very soon in four or five minutes. However, they were very difficult, practically unable to repair the fire. Fortunately, with the help of local institutions, local tanks joined, so they wouldn't let the fire spread. What was then appealed by the mayor of Novi Pazar, Dr Meso Mahmutovic and I would like to appeal for the fire defence to adapt to the terrain in which it operates. I think trucks should be smaller, tailored to smaller streets, which have their capacity in the water reserve, because that night we really saw a significant non-functionality, I'm going to say non-functional, and the weariness of the equipment. In Novi Pazar there is a squad of 35 firefighters who are really well-trained and that it is very necessary to adapt, again I say, a fire response to the ground itself, because New Pazar makes very narrow streets, it is a city with an Oriental type of construction, so that very fast and very easy can spread every fire and make a really big problem. What's good and what I want to praise is and something is the work of the Ministry of Interior and the local militia, but in the last six months, it's that we in the New Market have a negative crime rate and I want to commend the Minister himself. We have entered into solving the crucial problem for Bosniaks on the ground, representation and police institutions, and during the year we have employed 87 members in these services, two-thirds of which are Bosniaks, which is extremely important and which is an extremely good message. Unfortunately, out of these 35 people in the fire department, only four are Bosniaks. I would like to ask the Minister and the Ministry to keep this in mind and to continue in this practical sense to enter into this problem that he has really dealt with so far and this ministry is the only ministry, unfortunately, to be commended in this field and I want to personally thank the Minister and to support him and to make this change in the right way in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, in the interests of the security of citizens in that part of Serbia and in the interests of simply all of us. In that sense, I would like to say that my MP group of SDPS will, of course, support this law. He's innovative, he's good, I said he's very important, and for the reasons that some of the proposals bring and give people, or parents who were killed in the fires themselves, which gives him special value, and these people show really great humanity by wanting really sad moments and accidents to never happen to anyone else in this country again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22364	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22365	Thank you. I want to thank you on behalf of the lifeguard firefighters for the words you put out, because somehow it seems to me that there's not enough talk about these people and only when there are some tragedies happening, when some accidents happen. We had the tragically injured Dejan Lazarevic, who was the fact that he was the first victim among the lifeguard firefighters in the May floods, i.e. the MUP. These people are really doing an amazing job. They do hard work, very often with out-of-date equipment. It's just that there's not enough money to make sure everything's secure. So that's when you have a few, I'd say, tasks that you encounter, so you're trying to reduce a number of people from the state administration, I'm trying to make it a natural drain, that it's simply a natural process, but then we really, as you said, totally agree, need in certain parts of Serbia to dramatically increase the number of firefighters, especially in those parts where we have every year, where almost every year big forest fires. Of course, there should be work to find new modern technologies, new chemicals, new vehicles, new equipment, so that these people are fully protected and that with the fact from the ground and from the air, we achieve effects. As far as the manual is concerned, we have one problem. That's where I ask for your help and everyone else's. We have detailed fire protection manuals on the MUP site. They're completely free to take over. We had a campaign to talk to the municipalities about them taking over. Of course, sometimes for these or those reasons, not to get into it now, that doesn't happen. The municipalities and local self-government could greatly help, through the new Police Act. One thing that's very important to me, which is the work of the police in the community. It's the arrival of a number of police officers. Not an increase in the number of cops, but their better deployment, that they... As you know, in every city, in one street, in a neighborhood, in a block, whatever you call that part, it's very important that that cop knows these people, that they know him, that they know that he's a decent, honest, normal man to whom they can turn. This requires certain financial and technical preconditions, and this local self-government can be very helpful. In a number of local self-governments in Serbia, we have made certain common bodies of the MUP and local self-government, some kind of security advice, where people who participate in the local community, local self-government, can bring some knowledge, tell the police that they are working with us to improve every segment of our country's security. There's great potential. We can do a lot together. I'd like people to get a little tighter. Thank you for your commendation for the ministry's work. It means to these people who work day and night. This is one of the few ministries that's been working 24 hours. So these Malten people aren't going home. It means a lot of support. No ministry can only do that. The police can't solve all the problems of our society. It's not good that only the police solve them. However, it means a great deal to us that, together with all the people of the local self-government, from other state bodies, from civil society, we work together and that these suggestions are directed towards improvement and that in particular we see it on the ground. It also means a lot the education of our people, both the people we try to educate and the education of people from the police. Fire protection education, criminal police, counterterrorism, border police. Today, we have a phenomenon of an increased number of migrants, whether it is irregular migrants, of false asylum seekers who go through Serbia from different parts of the world, from Serbia to Western Europe. We had the opportunity to have increased cooperation with Hungarian, Austrian and German police because of such troubles. With the Hungarian police, we have traditionally good co-operation. They're getting better every day. Minister Pinter will be in Serbia tomorrow. I think we have a quality development of cross-border co-operation in the fight against organised crime. The arrival of the German police shows that we can do much better than we've done so far. And here's what's about the firemen and this. We need thermal cameras, we need new vehicles, we need equipment. I'm saying this because I'm gonna come one day, hopefully, in the near future to ask you for certain solutions, to help the MUP, to be more efficient. My only goal is to be safer and more efficient.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22366	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the Assembly to pass laws from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. (Muamer Bacevic, from the place: Replica. There is no basis for replication. You can only discuss this with the minister, but there is no basis for replication. I'd like to ask you on Friday, according to the amendments, something more concrete. The People's Messenger Vera Paunovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dejan Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22367	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers and other members of the Government, in their presentation, I will refer to the second item of the agenda – the amendment and addition of the Fire Protection Act, known in public as Tamara's Law. Tamara Miladinovic is one of six fire victims that took place at the New Sad discotheque "Contrast" on 1 April 2012. This bill aims to specify certain provisions of the legal text, with a view to more effective protection against fires in the future. First of all, I think it is good that Article 4 of the current version of the Law adds a dozen new points that provide more precise definitions of certain concepts and introduces new concepts that will be used in the embedded version of the legal text. By adding a new Article 6a, an education against fire protection is envisaged and I think that this member should not only remain declarative, but that educational authorities make sure that he does indeed live in curricula and programmes, whether in current subjects or through the return of cases such as former defences and protections in the school programme. The most important changes are related to technical plans to protect and defend against fires, which will require a slightly greater number of descriptions, characteristics and data, as well as the obligation to update these plans to meet the real situation and the security risk. From the technical documentation of fire and construction, this law will now prescribe a concrete basic requirement that the facility must meet, such as the preservation of its own structure, the prevention of the spread of fire and smoke and the security evacuation of people from it. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 33, 34 and 35 have been pre-defined in the responsibility of the MUP and its regional units in relation to the granting of consent to that fire documentation. Finally, these changes and additions specify the position and role of fire rescue units under the authority of the MUP and voluntary fire companies which will be guaranteed from now on and revenues from the budget of the local self-government of the provinces and the Republic. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS Group considers that the proposed amendments to the Fire Protection Act aim to apply the prescribed fire protection measures, primarily to protect people's lives, material goods and environments, and will therefore support this legislative proposal in the voting day, as well as all legislative proposals on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22368	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22369	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, the so-called Tamara Law before this was "Zoja's Law", we wait for "Tiana's Law" and this kind of civil activist is truly commendable, that after such a tragedy and torment, the forces, the people together, write the law, come to parliament, we adopt it. It's an activism for commendation. But where do I see a little problem? That this kind of problem-solving is slowly becoming a practice for us. Citizens take over the work that the Government is in charge of and, to be absolutely honest and honest, both parliament and MPs. It is a sign, Minister, that you, as a representative of the government, and I and the other MPs must indeed do a little better, above all, because of all the citizens, and finally because of the people who are here today and who were recently in the balcony room. What's the problem with the 2009 Fire Protection Act? One of the main problems is that no sublegal act has been adopted to the extent to which it should have been. When you don't pass a sublegal act, the law remains a dead letter on paper, inapplicable. It is also an appeal to you, Minister, that, within the legal time limit, very soon after the adoption, you bring in a sublegal act and allow for the full application of this law. Because law enforcement saves lives. As a MP, I would like to follow the adoption of sublegal acts, that when you come to parliament next time we also talk about it, and to support when on time, or to criticise if you too are late with sublegal acts. I repeat, non-legislative acts prevent law enforcement and enforcement. Why am I voting for Tamara's Law? It is good practice, Minister, we know that this law has passed a public debate, that you have consulted professional bodies, professional services, professions, that this law removes the shortcomings of the 2009 Law and that is one of the reasons why I will vote for this law. It's not commendable, because it's a practice that has to be in lawmaking. And again, I'm taking the opportunity to point out that we're passing a large number of laws by emergency procedure, that there's no public debate, and then the Minister, in a very short time, we see again, when we change and supplement the law, because it didn't actually go through a public debate. This one is, and that's why I'm gonna support him. The more important reason for me to support Tamara's Law is that it is dominated primarily by education, education, training and describing children of preschool and school age. There is no criminal provision that is more effective than education at this age. Education as a principle. Not just with fire protection, and with traffic safety, and with environmental protection. Education and education as a principle and motto of every society's development. That's what I very much want to support in this House. What was it that discouraged me? In the 2015 budget, there was more money for prisons than there was for education. That's what discouraged me, and it doesn't show, it doesn't give hope that it will be the principle of other laws. Anyway, we want to support Tamara's Law. On Friday, when we talk about amendments, we will also talk about some shortcomings, such as deadlines, let's say, for the adoption of the MP's consent against fire-fighting consent, as if there are no criminal provisions for non-compliance with the law or for non-compliance with the members of the MUP. These are the things that can impair the application of one law. These are the things that can put an end to one investment and put it into operation, and we want to talk about it on Friday, when we talk about the amendments. As far as the Arms Act is concerned, I think Dragan Sutanovac spoke very closely. I want to light up one thing from this law. It is a terrible fact that we in Serbia today have between 200,000 and 900,000 pieces of illegal weapons. To be honest, I don't know what's scarier about it, is it really 20 years ago that we don't know how many illegal weapons there are in Serbia, or is it the fact that we're guessing that even a million pieces of illegal weapons are on the ground? Knowing that exactly by illegal weapons, Minister, you have more detailed information that illegal weapons are being used to carry out certain crimes, the data I also received, I am not from this profession, but I have consulted and spoken to people who are, say, a large number of retired military officers who obtained weapons through the Ministry of Defence with military permits, when retired, do not transfer these military permits to civilians and this weapon is also being conducted as illegal. If I'm wrong, you'll make me right. What do I want to ask as a question and what do I want to light up as one of the problems? In fact, on page 30, you explained that there are two goals of passing this law. The first objective is effective control of ownership and traffic. The second goal is to enable legal and security owners of weapons to possess and use the same. I don't have any problem with these two goals. But I don't see any active measures in the law to reduce illegal weapons. In fact, I'm not sure that periodic legalization will solve this problem. True, it is the way other countries also solve the problem. But I don't think it's enough. My question to you is -- what do you think, at the beginning of the session, you were saying that this is a big problem and that in the future we have to work, and I'm asking you -- what are we going to do to reduce the number of pieces of illegal weapons on the ground? And you know for yourself, both you and I know that without fighting and active measures to reduce illegal weapons there is no effective fight against crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22370	The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22371	Of course this is a problem. Maybe I wasn't clear at first, and that caused later reactions. As far as this number is concerned, that assessment consists of an assessment of the UNDP, but an assessment of both the MUP and the assessment of other organs. If we knew where that weapon was, we'd arrest those people and take their weapons away. We don't know where that weapon is. A lot of estimates are based on speculation, if in 1992 there were this many weapons, if there was anything left, if they had surrendered. There were cases of weapons being stolen from people, so during the legalization process, that someone who brought that illegal weapon was found to be the weapon that was stolen from other people. All this gives some insight into the movement of weapons, traffic, people who deal with criminal acts. Legalization itself will contribute in part, but there will be no key to the solution. The key to the solution is better police preventive work, better police work in the community, because a cop who has citizens' trust, which I'm really going to fight with all my strengths as much as I can improve, that people have confidence in the police, because these people are really doing an objectively very difficult job, perhaps the hardest job in the country. They deserve trust, but only those who don't sit with criminals and drug dealers and deal with them how they're going to do something, because there are those in the police, but I hope less, they're certainly one convincing minority, that those honest, honest and responsible people in the police get their place, to get a chance to show what they know. It is through this work in the community, through this preventive work, that they come to the data where illegal weapons are found and that we are slowly encouraging people to hand over these weapons to us. I hope we can convince you. We've been thinking about whether it's three months, if it's shorter. We've given time enough to inform everyone about the objectives of this law, to inform everyone that if he has an illegal weapon, and you're probably right about this military, in a sense, that number was probably going in there, because all those weapons that don't have a regular license under our law, it's not regular, it's not legal. We'll try to convince people that it's really in their interest, but also in the interest of other people, because whoever has buried some weaponry, or keeps it in his apartment, house, garage, risks stealing it, risks realizing that at some point he doesn't need it, so if he's afraid, if he doesn't have legalization, he's trying to sell it to someone, he's risking himself being the chain of doing a crime tomorrow with inexplicable consequences. I'll try to convince people through some thematic activity that it's much better to hand over those weapons. Of course it's the key to better criminal police work, police in the community, and that's the thing we're going to insist on. In any case, from the debate so far, I am pleased that these two laws have in some way completely encouraged all MPs to be unique in their view that we need this. This isn't just a matter of the MUP, it's not just a matter of the minister, it's a matter of our lives. We have to fight to have less crime on the street, to have less crime, to have less crime, to have less crime. The job of the police is to shed light on them, the job of the police is to catch the perpetrators, of course it works preventively, to prevent criminal acts from being committed if it can. Not every crime can be prevented. It is not realistic in any country, not only in Serbia. However, work on education, education from police officers, which we really insist on and I think that through the negotiations on Chapter 24 we will have plenty of opportunities to work together with other police in both the region and the world, such as this example of co-operation with the border police of Austria, Hungary and Germany, other countries, France, to educate our people to use modern technologies and to make us better and better. Some troubles create other opportunities for us. That's right. It's gonna take a lot of education for the kids here. We'll have, as I said, tomorrow is the last day of public debate on the law, although it's just a few members, but we wanted to pass one long debate of the Traffic Safety Act, so that we could include all the opinions and all the people who can give it. It's very important that such things children start learning in schools. When you have practical models, we have had one model that we have worked, which is organized through our police administrations, that thousands of young drivers have received certain additional trainings absolutely free of charge for both the state and for them. Now we're waiting for statistical indicators, but if you trust the statistics from other countries that have tried it, these young drivers have a level of, or degree of death, severe injuries, traffic accidents are drastically smaller. It's always worth investing in education. Of course, the state is doing it as much as it can, how much its financial resources are, but certainly the MUP will insist on it as one of the most important models for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22372	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22373	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, without diminishing the importance and importance of the agreements we are talking about today, I will, in my presentation, respecting the time that the SPS Parliament Club has, take the opportunity to announce once more in a few sentences the position of the Parliament club when it comes to two legislative proposals, especially when it comes to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act, but also to the Bill on Arms and Ammunitions. First of all, I would like to say that both legislative proposals, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary club, make it very clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is hearing and that in the right way it sees what life issues are and that, in particular, together with citizens, which is very good and very positive, it is trying to find the best possible legal frameworks. The topic we're talking about today, I'll repeat, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act is actually, we'll agree, Mr. Minister, with you, to some extent, the responsibility and obligation set before the whole society. It's a very significant, serious question for society in general, for all of us. Today when we talk about this topic, and keeping in mind that the initiative to amend and supplement the Fire Protection Act was initiated by the father of little Tamara, who died in the fire at the “Contrast” discotheque, unfortunately, on April 1, 2012, when five other young people lost their lives. Having this tragedy in mind, bearing in mind who launched this initiative, we actually have, today, it seems to me, all together only one clear goal, which is that through today's debate in principle, through discussion in particular, we come to the highest quality legal framework, which will help no more young life in Serbia to be extinguished in this way. It is important to act preventively, I fully agree with you. It is an important education, we fully agree, but it is also important that each of us do what is in his power to keep these tragedies from happening in the future, or never again to anyone. To avoid the tragedies, it's important that we have system solutions. It is important that these solutions are implemented and standardised experiences of countries in the environment. It is important that we have a quality legal framework, which we have today and what we will have after the vote of this legislative proposal. It's important that the provisions of the law we're talking about today are binding, not to be a dead letter on paper. The important thing is, we have this legislative proposal very clearly and precisely defined obligations and responsibilities for everyone. It is important that, after the vote of this legislative proposal, everyone does their job, on the one hand and the competent institutions, the competent authorities, on the other hand, the owners of the catering facilities, or, as defined by this law, the facilities of public purposes, that they too bear in mind that the safety of their guests is a priority. Of course the SPS Parliament Club will support this legislative proposal in the voting day, there is absolutely no dilemma. We also fully support the goal that is to be achieved, which is, as you said, increasing the degree of security and more effective control of the very objects of public purpose, primarily catering facilities and other objects that gather more people. What is certainly the most important newspaper, is the creation of a legal basis for defining technical conditions when it comes to this area. This legislative proposal also very clearly defines what public purpose facilities are, therefore, objects where 80% of them seem to me, space is used for gathering people, and the rest of the space for residential or business purposes. Also, this legislative proposal creates one basis for defining technical conditions, which is very important, but this legislative proposal also creates a legal basis for issuing a ban on the work of a particular facility, unless conditions for safe evacuation are provided, which is fully justified. What I'm saying is that as a Parliament club, we also fully support intent and intensity, which I think is the essence, that no object can be registered for a particular activity, and only after that it meets the conditions of fire protection. That, of course, we will agree with you, must be a prerequisite for registration of activity. Therefore, it is primarily necessary to possess, of course, project documentation for fire protection, to carry out technical reception of the facility, and only after that to deal with registration and no nightclub, absolutely no nightclub, no catering facility, no public purpose object, as defined by this bill, should and should work unless it previously provides evidence of fire protection. What I wanted to take the opportunity to ask you as a question, and as far as this law is concerned, in Article 28 of this legislative proposal, is defined as the obligation of a fire protection plan and in the position of the 6th budget of the maximum number of people, you understand, among other things, what the plan must contain, so it is said -- the budget of the maximum number of people who can be safely evacuated from the facility. I guess there's a regulation that defines how it's calculated and comes up with the maximum number of people that can be found at a certain point in a catering facility. It's a question I wanted to ask you because at the time of the tragedy at the "Contrast" discotheque, in an object that can receive 150 people, it seems to me, between 300 and 350 people. So that such things don't happen in the future, simply, information, I think it's a very important and important question. Also, it has already been said, this legislative proposal opens up a legal path to define how the fire-saving units organisations operate, and we think it's a good thing because fire-saving units work today, I think, under the 1982 Regulation. It is hardly that anything that was brought 33 years ago can be applied today, and therefore we also commend this provision and this purpose. So we're convinced we're going to have a quality legal proposal. This legislative proposal shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the “Official Messenger”. What is our suggestion is, first of all, for you, Minister, to immediately begin its implementation and in practice. They repeat, that all the provisions of this law are binding, that everyone respects those obligations and responsibilities defined by this law, as I said briefly, that everyone does and does their part of the work and that at this point in Serbia we seem to have something over 20,000 registered catering facilities or public purposes. I think it's important, and I think that's what you're talking about, Mr. Minister, in the opening statement, one comprehensive control after the adoption of this law, as far as possible, of all catering facilities. When it comes to the Law of Weapons and Ammunition, of course, that the law adopted in 1992 cannot reflect the real needs today, that is not logical. Of course, it is necessary to adopt a new law, a law that will be in line with the United Nations Programme of Action to prevent illicit arms trafficking, as well as the United Nations Protocol on Firearms, a law that will be in accordance with the law, regulations of the European Union, in accordance with the directives of the Council of Europe. From the moment, it seems to me, the adoption of this legal proposal in 1992, to this day, was a number of changes. In 1998, for example, an obligation was introduced to handle firearms for all who wanted to own it, and then a criminal offence was introduced for the illegal possession of weapons because before that, this was an offence. A special authorisation was then introduced for the carrying of weapons obtained in a special procedure. Those who owned the weapon by then could carry it and hold it, and then it was separated. The next amendment, for example, referred to a criminal offence for the illegal possession of weapons as a criminal code. It's just some changes I've been trying to find. So these changes are very good, but they're not enough. Generally speaking, the law is obsolete. In this context, I would like to say that it seems to me that all the former republics of Yugoslavia have passed a new law and have repeatedly changed the legal framework governing this extremely important and important area. That's what you were talking about for a while. We also think it's important. It is important that a public debate is held. It is important that the suggestions and proposals and the competent state authorities are respected, but it seems to me, in the light of the legislative proposal, and the European Commission. Of course, the SPS Parliament Club will also support this legislative proposal in voting day. By supporting this legislative proposal, we actually want to support the realisation of the two core objectives that our colleague spoke of, and this is, firstly, the first objective, to prevent abuses through effective control of the possession and transport of weapons, to increase the security of our citizens, and secondly, to enable those safe, responsible owners of weapons to use and possess, but in accordance with the law. Looking at these two goals, on the one hand, it can be said that the law is strict, on the other hand, it can be said that the law is liberal. From the point of view of realising the first goal, the law is strict, and we fully support it. We find that very justified. From the point of view of the implementation of the second objective, the law is liberal, which is once again acceptable and fully justified, with a goal to be achieved. In order to achieve this first goal, of course, it is important to tighten the control of weapons possession, to make one comprehensive control of all those who today possess weapons. In this context, we also support the introduction of two new conditions, which are health skills, justified reasons, but, of course, the discretionary right of the police to impose a ban, if they estimate that the person who owns the weapon can abuse him. I think my colleague Jovanovic mentioned a terrible crime a little bit, I think in 2007, in the village of Jabukovac near Negotina, a nine-time murder, but the perpetrator of that murder, correct me if I'm wrong, I think I read it somewhere, I think he had a legal weapon, although he was a mental patient. If such tragedies didn't happen in the future, we support this proposal for periodic medical examinations. I think it's a five-year period. So this kind of control wasn't envisaged before. In the past, it was necessary to provide confirmation that you were not convicted and, on the other hand, that you were not being prosecuted. So, in short, tightening the conditions for obtaining and possessing weapons, introducing additional two conditions with discretionary rights given to police, too, comprehensive control of all those who today possess weapons, but also as stricter and more rigorous sanctions for those who do not have weapons is something that the SPS Parliament Club fully supports. As far as the second objective is concerned, and I want to end with that, as far as the second objective is concerned, which is to allow the security-response owners of weapons to own and use in accordance with the law, this law therefore provides for one privileged status for those registered sportsmen and collectors, which is fully justified. A colleague spoke of a major problem for a while, and that is a huge amount of weapons in illegal possession. You know how, that's a big problem, but I want to commend you, because you're actually showing by this law that when it comes to solving this problem, don't sit down and not run one passive policy, but one active policy. It is very clear in the light of this legislative proposal that the process of legalisation and handover of weapons has shown the best results. In this regard, it is good that legalization is governed by this legal proposal, more specifically by Article 46. Once again, at the very end, in the voting day, the SPS parliamentary club will support both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22374	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22375	Thank you. I just want to thank you briefly for the serious and reasoned debate. The essence of the first part I want to look back on, the application of the law. As someone who has been an MP and sat in these benches, I am fully aware that without the essential application of any law can be as good as you want, if not applied there is nothing. Sublegal acts are also important. I'll insist, I've talked, I've spoken, and now I'm talking to people sitting next to me, they're going to have extreme pressure to do sublegal acts as soon as possible, so that this application can be accurate. What you asked, it's a rule waiting for this law to be passed for the number of people who can be in a certain space, and in fact then, you know that in our country, it's hard to define it, at football games, basketball, different spaces, people always want a little bit more, and then of course it makes fire roads, the pathways to evacuate insecure, and we're going to have to define it. So I expect that very quickly, I think I'll be able to convince Mr. Maric that by the end of next week, we'll finish the bar in the set, as far as these two regulations are concerned, I'm sure he'll listen to me. As far as these others are concerned, for weapons, we'll try to keep the ammunition as short as possible with the deadlines. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22376	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22377	Thank you, General. Dear Ministers, co-workers from the Ministry, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, not taking into account, in fact, the importance of the other draft laws that are on the agenda today, I will talk today about the Bill of Weapons and Ammunition, with a slightly different aspect than the colleagues who discussed this bill. When weapons are mentioned, the association of the average citizen of the world is a negative challenge to resistance. The reasons for this are multiple and, of course, justified. However, weapons and ammunition in legal frameworks are not only a means of combat facts more used for personal safety, for the protection of persons of property and other social values. Also, although the smaller percentage of the population of any country in the world uses weapons and ammunition are necessary, as we know about hunting, and sports disciplines, of course some Olympic. One of the main arguments for limiting citizens' rights to possess and carry weapons is the assumption that with less legalised weapons there will be less crime. Here are some interesting data that speak differently from these generally accepted attitudes, or prejudices. According to data some in the degree of civil arms, the Republic of Serbia is second in the world, far behind the United States. Average weapons of the citizens implies that citizens are armed by the head of the population, and they do not include legal, military or illegal weapons at all. If the data on the legal weapons of members of all security services were to be entered, the image would be drastically changed in terms of the country's weapons by the head of the population. It is particularly important that this stand out in some countries of regular military service, they employ weapons, which, after the reserve's status, can also be purchased, and this weapon does not enter the statistics of civil arms. On the other hand, in countries where the use of weapons is almost forbidden, the most burdened with crime and violent death is precisely weapons. You, Mr. Minister, are already talking about the trend in gun mortality in the Republic of Serbia, years ago, but here's some more interesting information. When it comes to the Republic of Serbia, some data suggest we belong to a group of low mortality countries, with an average index of 3.9 and 5 accidents per 100.00 thousand inhabitants, respectively. Unfortunately, most of these deaths cause suicides, over 70%. Our rate of murder with firearms per 100,000 inhabitants is 1.2 which is far above the world index average 6.2. From this we can say that there is a tradition and culture of gun rule in Serbia and that citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve the possibility of having weapons, which makes this law possible. I don't want to be misunderstood, I'm not in favour of absolute legalisation of weapons, and I fully support increasingly strict measures in terms of civil procurement, holding and carrying weapons, because that seems preventive on the one hand. On the other hand, it enables safe citizens, arms collectors, passionate hunters and athletes to own and use weapons and ammunition with adequate permission for their hobbies and according to their interest. This law, which we adopt after more than two decades, is a step forward in terms of more effective control of the possession and transport of weapons in the Republic of Serbia, because it is adapted to the current social opportunities and strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia in terms of EU accession. Also as a signator of the UN action programme for the prevention, repression and eradication of illicit arms trafficking, as well as the UN protocol on firearms, the Republic of Serbia has committed itself to implementing firearms control measures and periodic reporting on the results achieved, which is regulated by the provisions of the law. Although the current law in many provisions, people said, has run over time, certain solutions have proved effective, as the promoter has introduced into the new law. For the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether it is a matter of natural persons or officials, or members of state bodies, then for entrepreneurs themselves, or legal persons who, within the course of their activities, have security tasks, as well as for different associations, above all hunting, sports and arms associations, is of paramount importance the adoption of this law. The law elaborates in a detailed way the procurement, holding, carrying, storage and other activities related to weapons and ammunition, by natural and legal persons. In the law itself, the most important provisions relating to weapons of new categorization, category B, are that the weapons of this category are the most widespread and significant from a single country's security aspect. From the point of view of natural persons, the law ensures that legal and conscious citizens have uninterrupted possessions and use of their weapons, but the law provides for stricter punishment for abuses and unconscious relations with weapons. The most significant newspaper, many of my colleagues spoke of, is in Article 11, which prescribes the conditions for the purchase of weapons, in category B, respectively, the condition as the health capacity of a person who submits a request for the supply of weapons as a new condition. The obligation of a natural person authorised to hold and carry weapons of category B shall have the obligation to deliver new assurances to the competent authority every five years. It certainly is a preventive measure to prevent possible accidents that occurred in the past, and as a result of the damaged health condition of the owner of the gun list. Another newspaper that delights weapons fans, or collectors, is a collector's license. This permit can be obtained by a natural person who owns at least five weapons of category B, thus obtaining the possibility of obtaining more weapons of this category. New weapons categorization, in addition to the different weapons classifications regulated by the applicable law, introduces a new category D. For the first time, the use of gas sprays and electric shockers, etc., is regulated. Taser. Speaking of this category, I'd like to draw attention to some legal solutions that seem to me to be in college. Since we weren't sure what the bill's intention was, we couldn't handle the amendments, but I'm taking the opportunity to point to the inconsistency of these two members of the law. Namely, it is about the solutions contained in Article 15 and Article 26. It's a bill of law. Article 15 found that natural persons older than 16 years of age, legal persons, as well as economic operators may, without authorisation and registration, obtain and hold weapons of category ‘D’ which include gas sprays and electroshocks. At the same time, Article 26, which regulates the issue of a ban on carrying weapons, provides that only minors can wear gas sprays and electroshocks. So, not from the 16s, as it says in Article 15, but from the age of 26. We believe that it is necessary to re-analyze these two members, and given that the deadline for the amendments of the Members of Parliament has expired at the beginning of this session, I believe that the committee responsible could reduce one of these two members. As the mandated president of the parliamentary group said, the Socialists have tabled several amendments to the bill, which we will discuss in particular closer to discussion. With regard to amendments submitted, I would draw attention to our amendments to Article 6, which concern hunters and hunting associations, as well as to questions of trophy weapons which are not defined by this bill. I believe that, dear Minister, you will consider these and all of our amendments that we have submitted, because our goal is to adopt as precise and more applied the Arms and Ammunition Act as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22378	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22379	It seemed the same to me in my first reading, the same thing I thought was a mistake. However, it is two different norms. In Article 15, says – natural persons, older than 16 years, etc. they can get and hold weapons, and in article 26 they say – adult faces can wear gas sprays. So, that's just the difference, because it seemed the same to me right away, said this was some mistake. However, since legal norms are such that those younger than adulthood cannot carry any kind of weapon, that is the point. So someone can have an electroshock at home for personal protection, but they can't carry it to school, for example, which is maybe good again, and on the other hand, people over the age of 18 can carry a weapon like this and that's all it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22380	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, and then Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22381	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues from the Ministry of the Interior and fellow MPs, today we have heard a lot about these draft laws that are on the agenda, but I would like to begin, first of all, to refer to the Law on Arms and Ammunition which is practically somewhere I want to remind myself the last one was brought up in an integrated version in 1992. So, since 1992, we haven't had a new legal solution to this area. What is important is that two important goals have been set, which is to carry out effective control in general in this area and the other part to make practical legalisation, i.e. that owners who have so far used it on one side of the positive side, because today we have listened a lot to in the congregation debate all what is at the border with legal solutions about all those who want to abuse practical and purchase and use and carry arms and ammunition. In this part, I think there's a wind in the back of people who actually use guns and ammunition in the legal frameworks and use it really for good purposes. First of all, it should be said that these are people who are citizens' associations who are sports fans and that's the part where we talk about shooting and don't forget that Serbia had, so gold medalists, Mrs. Jasna Šekarić, I have to mention, which was the first practically in this sport. The other part is nature lovers and those people who really have to carry weapons for the simple reason that they deal with one work called hunting, and that part practically includes a large part of the users. It is estimated that there are several hundred thousand active hunters in Serbia, and those who are not active, also have weapons. Therefore, they too stick to these legal proposals, i.e. the legal solutions by which they should essentially be the main users, i.e. the people who will deal with these legal solutions. This part of practically covered these proposals shows that active measures are in order to introduce complete control in this sector, but that the rewards of all those who really do so in an adequate way are in a position to have real ones for the first time now and those collectors who collect weapons for the sake of being lovers and who have even watered weapons will have the opportunity to get so-called. Collector's license, which has a minimum of five pieces of weaponry and will in some way have an advantage in buying someone next. On this positive side, practically this newspaper thinks that in some way it introduces order, but also gives opportunity to people who have been damaged in this area somewhere precisely because of those we previously talked about who were willing to abuse this law and have been damaged. Now, in a way, they have been returned as their right to which they will have great pleasure in applying the law practically. What I would like to say about this law is that it is part of a practical EU directive that the European Parliament has long adopted, that it is related to Chapter 24 and, Mr Minister, I think that with your position you will play a great role, especially in this chapter, and therefore also in the presentation and practical application of the European Directive not only on this legislative proposal, but also on others. What's important is that you ultimately involved the civil sector in making these legal solutions, because when we talk about all these users of these laws, most of them are practically citizens' associations and as citizens' associations they belong to the civil sector. Therefore, it is very important that every law is accepted. If you have included and implemented all the legal solutions based on good practice and practically certain opinions of the association, this means that the actual acceptability of such laws will be at full capacity. What was very interesting to me is the amendment of the Fire Protection Act and I think we talked less in this part of the conversation, the more the men's world talked about weapons and ammunition. What's the part where we talk about amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act, it's interesting to say that we can consider it a part of reform laws. Why? Because it is aligned somewhere with the Law on Planning and Construction and as such in one segment includes that part of the amendments, and the other includes the reorganisation of a practical organisation and a practically new way of functioning fire-saving units. In this first part, when we talk about harmonising the Law on Planning and Construction, it should be said that what we haven't had so far has been defined there, and so far we have had in planning and building the part relating to the main project. Now he exists. In the new law, we have the Law on construction works, and when we talk about fire protection now, there is no longer a major project, but an elaborate appears. I think it's legally correctly defined. There were some of my colleagues who spoke contrary to this fact. But I think we've defined that by this law. As a member of the Economic Focus, I will not be able to agree with my colleague who had the view of building the consent of a particular commission to be entrusted to certain private, or certain companies that are not part of the MIP units, for the simple reason that you have a certain human and professional capacity within the MUP units so far. That's what it says about that part of professionalism demanding certain licenses. These people also have certain licenses. If we want to expand that part of the commission and open it up that there is a tendency among some of our colleagues from other political parties, it is no problem at all that they are an integral part of the commission with certain licences, but they cannot be an integral part of a particular company, that is, when we talk about it, we are talking about a particular company. I'll give you an example. So, according to the EU directives in 2011, the practically assembly majority then passed a law in which such a model applied to the granting of consent relating to pressure vessels, means that the Ministry of Energy had no more right to leave the Commission and to verify underground gas station tanks. What happened? Uncontrollable, i.e. by not agreeing to certain companies that had the right to do so, you come at a time when these companies are in a certain period due to rapid economic changes, perhaps suspending their work, or going bankrupt or no longer doing the job. At the time of the accident, the explosion of the pump or anything, when the question of guilt is raised, then the state authorities no longer had any responsibility, because that responsibility was passed on to the one issuing the consent. In that case, if a particular company were to issue consent to the part relating to the agreement for fire protection facilities, practically the MUP would not be responsible for the facility at all. That's why I'm saying, maybe in the future we need to find a model, but I think that we've really found some compromise solution on the coke and the rush, and on your part I see that a certain part of it has been accepted, that a simple solution that the Ministry of Construction, in collaboration with the Ministry of the Interior, is going to find a way to respect the procedure for 28, or 54 days to give consent to the performance of the works, when we talk about building permits, and that, in a certain way, the commissions that are in the framework of the MUP's work are going to meet this. In doing so, I also said at the session, the main project, since it has been abolished, when we talk about the building, and if it is abolished in terms of fire protection consent, you say – the elaborate, but this elaborate will have certain elements that will be issued in 28 days, and a certain part of the Commission's exit on the ground, will be fully agreed to, practically, the purposes of that facility. That's what I think is very good, which after a certain kind of consensus and looking at all the legal solutions on all sides, you come up with a real solution. Finally, the Fire Protection Act speaks of redefining and editing of fire and rescue units and has proved now and in previous floods that practically these units were not exclusively engaged in fires, they were obviously current both in floods and in rinks, and the need for these units to be reorganised in a certain way, and we had the opportunity to hear from colleagues that since 1982 they had virtually no new legal solutions. So out of great help, apparently Mr. Minister, were both your unions of the MUP and professional services, that you really went out with these solutions in the best way possible. That it's a good proposal to show these agreements as well. These agreements with Hungary show that we are not alone in the region, especially when we talk about emergency situations and disasters, that we need to co-operate. We have such an agreement with Hungary, and on the agenda we also have a Memorandum on co-operation on Southeast European countries, practically as a form of prevention in the fight against these situations. When we talk about agreements that were part of a certain readmission, then it's agreements with Russia and when we talk about fighting crime, it's also an agreement with Belarus. I think that these agreements will be talked more about by my colleagues, but in any case, I think today's session has shown that you are really the right man in the right place, although many may not like it, but the results of the work always speak for the man and shows that the SNS in the voting day will surely support such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22382	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22383	Mr. Minister, the right man in the right place, which my colleague says, we had a good debate in the first part, and I'd like to continue. I have the impression that I've managed to convince you of some amendments, we'll still be talking about the amendments, but some things we've skipped to analyze. You said you'd accept that the validity of the armed list extends to 10 years. I still don't think there's any need to limit it at all because the conditions to be met in Article 11 are being checked every five years. So, you're just going to do the job of the Management Office because I don't know how many tens of thousands of people have valid permits, if everyone comes. (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the post: Chip does not support it for more than ten years). Now, if the chip is a problem, let's change the chip. Okay, I think that's the way it's supposed to be done then, to see what's the technical problem. The minister says the chip has not been supported for more than ten years. But that's a good thing now that I don't want to get into. I don't think there's generally any reason to limit it. In Article 26, I talked about this in the first part of the session regarding the wearing of gas sprays, or electric shock devices, it is predicted that only adult faces over the age of 18 can use them. I think even those funds are more needed by minors because we're witnessing that he's been a series of serious crimes exactly toward minors and if we listen to them, it's our idea to drop from 18 to 16 years old. I know someone's gonna say they can abuse. In principle, one who wants to abuse will do so unbound by the number of years he has, and we may be able to save someone's life, and yet we can save one of the animal attacks and so on. I think that's something you can take into consideration, and it simply won't cost anyone anything, again, if one life is protected thanks to that spray or electro shock, I think that would be very good. In Article 31, I don't know at the end of the day what you've accepted if you're going to stay that you're going to have to report a weapons disappearance immediately, I've told you before when I was at your place that in Article 30. - who finds the weapon is obliged to immediately notify the nearest organisational unit of the ministry. So the wording "now" in the law already exists. I think the same formula should exist in this part when someone notices the disappearance of their own weaponry. There's no need to give him any period of 48 hours or I don't know how long he's thought it's just as dangerous as what someone found. I say, in that period, a crime can be committed and the gun can be returned back to where it was. I'm afraid that something, and I'm glad to see my colleagues nod their heads, and I think we can adapt that to what we really need to be. We didn't also talk to the category so-called. C in Article 4. I'm not sure, I'm saying, maybe there are some parallel rights to these modern copies of old weapons. I don't know why the old one, not the new one, because we're witnessing that there are a number of different copies in the toy shops that look like originals, and I believe that a large number of Serbian citizens would think it's the original weapon. We suggest that generally those modern copies be deleted, if there is already a possibility of trading with them in toy stores. I don't think that's supposed to stand. There are several members of the law that should be changed practically. If I understand correctly about proving the threat, the safety of the citizens, we'll go after the amendment we gave. I want to thank you, it seems to me that practically most or almost all of the amendments we have proposed will be accepted for the general satisfaction and I can tell you that if they do, and I believe they will, we will support this law and thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22384	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22385	I suggested, I consulted a little with legislation and with our people, and I found this missing weapon procedure unclear. It's perfectly logical that a man who notices the disappearance of a weapon immediately informs the police, doesn't need any deadline. However, what's the difference with the procedure with the weapon found. Someone who finds a weapon on that phone can notify the police that he's found the weapon and doesn't have to provide any explanation about it. The one who lost his weapon, precisely because of the rules on how to keep a weapon, must provide an explanation for how weapons were lost. So it's not exactly a pen that he can just lose. Only in this sense will the proposal be immediately and up to 24 hours longer. So it's going to be a formulation so someone can come along with an explanation. Of course, it's the longest 24 hours, I guess people who lose their weapons will come in the next hour, two to report it from the moment they notice it. As for this person who can wear gas sprays and electroshocks, why did we choose to wear adult faces anyway? We have indicators suggesting an increase in juvenile delinquency. In practice, I'm sure, you know, it happens that the leaders of the criminal clans are deliberately using minors because they know that criminal policies are easier for them than for the adult. We fear that further weapons of them could thus provide grounds for further increasing juvenile delinquency. That's why we've defined ourselves for this. We'll see, of course, how practice will show and what I've been talking to a colleague, fully prepared to show that, in practice, these solutions need to be changed, I don't mind sitting down in a few months and changing it. I think it's a healthy way of communicating. That's what I wanted to say. And the rest of this, we found a formulation, to say that, when carrying a weapon, a natural person from the position of the 1st member must meet the requirements of Article 11 of that law, and make it likely that his personal safety is compromised. Make a probable formulation, to give his explanation, his view, which is why he believes his safety is compromised, and of course, then the competent state authorities will check it out, I totally agree. It will certainly be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22386	I fully understand my colleagues from the MUP who are looking at one side of this bill. They're watching how to prevent crime. Of course, if there were no weapons at all, no electroshocks, no bats, no knives, etc., if we had all the flowers, it would be phenomenal, and we wouldn't have this law today, but we would have some other flower law. But I see it as a parent. As a parent whose child, I hope, will not be delinquent, and could be threatened by someone delinquent. That delinquent will certainly take the risk, he won't, he'll take the risk, and my child won't be able to protect himself properly. So, I think we should put ourselves in the head of someone who's going to abuse the law, but exactly who needs to be protected. That's why I've been talking since I was 16. So if someone wants to abuse children from 16 to 18 years of age, he's already ready to abuse himself and he's not my subject of personal defense, and he's someone who's a danger to this child who doesn't have the ability to defend himself. So, think about it one more time, we'll talk about it, and the day after tomorrow, on the amendments. It's just, I'm saying, the approach of the M.O.P. people is different from the others. I believe that if they were asked, I suppose they'd forbid the use of weapons to anyone. I'd support that, too. My colleagues here have spoken, say, in Great Britain only 8% of the police have the right to use weapons. Even they don't wear it. Only 8% right to use. In Norway, the police don't carry the same weapon. Police. But it's some other systems, if we go that way sometimes, it'll be very good, and now I'm saying, think about it, we'll talk about it when they're amendments. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22387	The word has the People's MP Gordana Topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22388	Thank you. The respected chairman, ministers, all present, as someone who lives in Banat, in a community made by both Romanians and someone who lives in a place turned with a Romanian municipality of Shirija, I will talk about the importance of the agreement, the opening of international official crossings on the Serbian-Romanian border of Nakovo-Lunga, Vrbica-Valkanj and Jasa Tomic-Fenj. Nakovo, Vrbica and Jasa Tomic are our smaller three border posts, of which Jasa Tomić is the largest and numbers about 2,300 inhabitants and belongs to the Municipality of Sječanj in the Central Banat County, while the other two belong to the North-Branate County, the Nakovo municipality of Kikinda, and the Vrbica municipality of Čoka. All three crossings have so far been small-border crossings, which means that they worked mostly at the time of the holiday, when the crossing of a large number of passengers was recorded. I will illustrate this in one example, when during the New Year's holidays between Romania and Serbia's Christmas, the Nakovo-Lung crossing was opened between 27 December and 29 December, meaning, three days, the crossing of 2,005 passengers and 619 vehicles crossed. In small-scale crossings besides being opened occasionally, it is also lacking that only citizens of border countries, in this case Serbia and Romania, can use it. The signing of these agreements preceded initiatives by citizens of the municipality of Kikind and Choko, who with five municipalities from Romania and with the support of the Alliance of Serbs and Romanians, sent an initiative to the governments of Serbia and Romania to open permanent international road crossings. Realisation of the initiative and the mutually recognised interest of our two countries also resulted in an official reference to the note, late last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Romania and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, that our government would accept a proposal to conclude an agreement on the opening of these international border crossings. The wording of the agreement has been defined to open a road crossing for international traffic, persons and goods of up to 3.5 tonnes, as well as for the traffic of pedestrians, cyclists and vehicles of up to 3.5 tonnes. The working time of the crossing, in our time, would be between 7pm and 19hm, and in Romanian time from 8pm to 20hm, with the fact that, at the request of any party, the signatories of this agreement, in this case, Serbia and Romania, could change this working time. These crossings prohibit the crossing of vehicles carrying dangerous substances, live cattle and those subject to phytosanitary control. As international border crossings, it is open to all citizens, regardless of nationality, and to citizens crossing the border, and citizens are members of the EU, as by law, used to cross ID cards, and our citizens and citizens of non-EU states use passports. Fellow Members and colleagues, the opening of these border crossings and their international status is of multiple importance, both political, economic and cultural, and this is also a contribution to the greater security of our borders and the external borders of the EU. The contribution of these agreements is also to identify people's ties on both sides, to meet old friends and relatives, to preserve the national identity of people from border places, as well as to make it easier for the local population of border municipalities through deepening cultural, sports, partnership ties in the economy, economic development of municipalities and reducing the transport of goods to the EU market. Aware of the multiple importance of such agreements, both for the local border population and for the region. The SPS parliamentary group in voting day will support all three agreements opening the international border crossings of Vrbica-Valkanj, Nakovo-Lunga, Jasa Tomic-Fenj at the Serbian-Romanian border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22389	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22390	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, today we are talking, of course, about the law on arms and ammunition and amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, or so on. ‘Tamara's Law’. I, first of all, want to welcome the urgency of the interior minister, who wants to ensure the highest level of security and security in our country, above all for young people in Serbia. And he's proven it for the past few months, since he's been in that place, several times. I want to congratulate him first of all because I think it's important for our country, for the new generations to come, for us young people in this country and for our life, first of all, in our country. As far as these laws are concerned today that we are discussing, first of all, I am impressed by a constructive debate between representatives of the former regime and the SNS and other parties, where there is one dialogue and there can be talked about improving some parts of the law that will certainly contribute to the better implementation of the same. And, as you have seen, Minister Stefanovic wants to hear it, to respect it, and to through amendments, possibly, what is acceptable and to adopt, in order to improve our situation together. A lot of data came out today. That this law, when we talk about weapons and ammunition, hasn't been changed since 1992. It's finally come to a turn. Someone mentioned that we have about 900,000 illegals, say, guns, guns, or weapons in our country, but Mr. Stefanovic, it's not your fault. At certain times, it seemed to me like you were being accused of having so many weapons. We are aware of the facts and of our past that we have had wars on the territory of the former Yugoslavia and that at some point a certain amount of weapons from those battlefields and returned to our country and you cannot just track down every weapon individually and prevent anyone from using it. What's important is that this law has two goals, which we heard today, first of all, health skills. I think when someone manages a firearm or if they own it and keep it in the house, they have to pass all the psychophysical tests to make sure that someone doesn't do something that we don't want to happen. Since we had certain titles, and I only performed two of what hit Serbia and why this law is important in the implementation and application itself, it is certainly also in the village of Velika Ivanca that massacre took place, and what was in the previous period, that the boy accidentally shot his sister in the head. So it is important to be serious, and I see Mr Stefanovic's willingness to seriously enter into solving these problems together with all of us MPs who are actually the control mechanism for implementing all the laws in our country. The second goal is a legitimate reason why a citizen wants to own a weapon, which is also extremely important to give an explanation why you would carry a gun, why you would keep it in the house. We live in a peaceful world where there are no wars, there are no conflicts or tensions. I think that's what's left of us and that if any conflict happens in that, let's say, the most terrestrial part of our lives and in the neighborhood, we can solve with dialogue, not violence. I would like and wish that we live in such a Serbia, and I think that in the next period we will establish a system to live in such a country, to feel safe and finally no one is after guns. As for the change and addition of the Fire Protection Act, the aware of what happened at the "Contrast" discotheque in 2012, how many young lives have been lost, I also believe that these amendments and additions of the law will allow us to in some way discipline and insert some new ones, to say, requirements but not to the harm of those who hold clubs or abortions, but in accordance with the law to enable us to no longer have victims in the event of a fire and no major losses and major material damage. This is not just about human victims and the great material damage caused by a certain part of the territory or the city can be devastating for our budget, the budget of local self-government, the budget of cities, etc. But in front of all these interests, preserving our assets we put every human life that must not be lost because of someone's negligence or disregard for certain regulations that are also important to us. At the very end, since we heard a lot of arguments today, I would also like to tell Mr Stefanovic personally that the reforms he is conducting in the police are certainly something we haven't seen in the last 15 years, I can say 15 years backwards. Also, 80% of the lit cases are major police progress but it can always do better and I hope that it will strive for better results. Career advances in police that are also important will finally lead to us not having political advances in the police, and I want it applied in other institutions to get quality people in the right places that will stand up for our citizens and carry out everything in the interest of their security and security. What I also want to say to Mr Stefanovic, since he worked here on two tracks, when we talk about the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, protection against fire, what is also important for young people is the Law on Transport Safety and I really doubtless believe that the Ministry of Transport led by Mr Stefanovic was the most involved in making, or more precisely now in the bill of law that will soon enter the procedure when we talk about the Traffic, Traffic Security Act, that is proof that it also advocates the less young lives we lose on our roadways. That's what's important to us in the next period to do, because every life lost in every segment I've ever said is really bad for our country and we can't let that happen. I can therefore conclude, in addition to all this that the Ministry of Interior has done for such a short period of time in the past nine months, with all these reforms that implement laws that are being adopted speedily but still in time, without any pressure, where there are round tables, public debates, I can freely say and thus end, that Mr Stefanovic is certainly the best interior minister in the last 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22391	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22392	I thank Mr. Arsenovic. Dear Ministers, given that my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group have given reference to the specific provisions of the arms and ammunition law, I will also ask you to hear extremely well-intentioned suggestions regarding these provisions of the law, referring to the criminal aspect of this law, and that before the greatest number of criminal acts that, by their characteristics, and especially to the qualitative elements, are crimes with an extremely high degree of social danger, have been done using weapons, either fire, cold, or other types of weapons. We are malts not daily through information funds bombed, or familiar with brutal murders, extortions, serious bodily injuries, done again, or where weapons appear as means of execution. Therefore, in addition to those objectives that have been declared in your bill, one more should be pointed out, in the opinion of us in the SPS parliamentary group, perhaps the most important goal, which is that this law on one hand prevents the carrying out of criminal acts, because by introducing weapons into legal flows, we will prevent at least some or contribute to prevent something that involves the intensity of criminal offences, because in a resolved manner, weapons records will come up with certain evidence and data that can be useful in the analysis of clues and thus determining criminal responsibility for potential perpetrators of criminal offences. But where is what to suggest in some way as an extremely well-intentioned suggestion? It is a qualitative shift that you have made through the provisions of this law, which is to determine health skills as conditions for the approval of carrying, or holding arms. Mr. Minister, we have a problem here in court practice. Namely, health skills as something that will be bound by a criterion, a mandatory condition, appear in court practice as problematic. Why? Because even those who have so-called. "post-traumatic syndrome" arises from the point of view of the court's decisions and from the point of view of skill in court proceedings as healthy, such as those who have been able to understand the importance of the action they are taking, and thus to understand the importance of the consequences of the crime itself that they have committed. That is why it is necessary, and this is the well-intentioned suggestion that we make, together with this law, at the time of its application, automatically adopt a regulation by the health ministry that will regulate the criteria for the assessment of health skills. Why? So that's why I'm asking you to participate directly in making such a rule, for the simple reason. Which is precisely the assessment of health skills will play a dominant role, not only with regard to the allocation, or the issuing of licences for carrying and holding arms, but also later on the prevention of the perpetrator of criminal offences. We've had the highest number of crimes due to post-traumatic syndromes in times of war terror. To warn you, this is exactly how we can reach the final goal, and that is to compare these criteria in any case to what involves a real and objective picture of the health condition of a person that appears as a potential holder or weapons carrier. In any case, all these well-intentioned suggestions and how they should apply one quality law that we have tried to make to the amendments in some way to contribute. I will repeat once again as our authorised representative, Mr Vanja Vukic, said, we are without reservation and strong in support of these proposed laws, thereby giving maximum support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the application of not only these laws, but everything relating to the security of citizens and the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22393	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Svetislav Vukmirica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22394	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, distinguished ministers, representatives of the competent ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, is on the agenda today to confirm the agreement to open Serbia's international border crossings with Romania, i.e. the Nakovo-Lung border crossings, Vrbica – Valjkan and Jasa Tomic-Fenj. The reminders work, at the meeting of our home on 14.10.2014, during the discussion of the agreement of the two governments on the opening of the international border crossings of Golubac-Nova Moldava and Vračev gaj – Sokol, I also pointed to the importance of opening the Nakovo-Lung border crossings. Meanwhile, there has been a realisation of this project and the temporary opening of a road crossing for international traffic of persons and goods, i.e. pedestrians, cyclists and vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes with 12 hours of working hours. After voting day, and I hope for unanimous confirmation of this agreement, it will cross over to a permanent category with the possibility of certain changes to mutual benefit. So today I would point out all the advantages that I have brought with me, as well as a certain direction in which to go, or which changes should be made in order to achieve the greatest benefit for both countries, and therefore also for its citizens. The opening of the Nakovo-Lung border crossing at Kikinda proved everything that has been determined for years, which is that this border crossing has a perspective not only for passengers, but also for businessmen. After the opening of the border crossing last November, only in December 2014 and in January of this year, the state border crossed more than 7,500 passengers. How significant is this figure and the fact that during that period there were around 1,100 at the border crossing of Vrbica-Valkanj, and at Jaša Tomic-Fenj 3,400 passengers. At the same time, at the border crossing of Srpka Crnja-Jumbolj, which allowed the crossing of trucks and buses, traffic was about 15,000 passengers, with him working 24 hours and Nakovo-Lung only 12 hours. This shows that the decision to open this border crossing has been fully justified and that of all three newly opened crossings has the greatest need to be improved in line with the needs of citizens and businesses, and thus raised to a higher level. Such a need was expressed by businessmen from the company Zopas and Delfi, who work in the Romanian town of Semikos. The employment of the required workforce from the municipality of Kickind is a reality of mutual benefit and therefore all measures should be taken to bring about the realisation of this job as soon as possible. For one thing, the Romanian side should also support the Kikind municipality's initiative to sign an interstate agreement, which will regulate all labour issues, and in relation to each other's labour engagement. Secondly, it is necessary to amend the relevant agreement on the Nakovo-Lung border crossing and extend its working hours from 7,00 to 19,00 hours to 4,00 to 23,00 or even to be opened non-stop so that the people of Kikinda can go to work in Semikos uninterruptedly for all three shifts. Third, it is necessary to amend that agreement to allow the crossing of buses to be made possible at that border crossing. Fourthly, the same agreement should regulate the transition of a group of workers in the organisation of bus transport without standard police customs procedures according to passenger lists, as normal passport customs controls would require a major waste of time. Addressing these issues would give Semikos a steady workforce, and Kikinda would thus reduce large unemployment in its area. Finally, I would point out that as soon as possible the issue of goods traffic at this border crossing, as the businessmen of the Kickinda are interestingly connected to the first neighbour. For example, businesses from Kikinda and Northern Banat exported 15,460,957 euros worth of goods to Romania in 2014 while importing well-valued 9,158,054 euros from Romania. This basically means that for our businessmen Romania is the fourth exporting partner, and after importing number two, which shows the importance of further economic binding and enabling the transport of interested companies and across this border crossing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22395	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Saviovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22396	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, are on the agenda today and three draft laws confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of international border crossings at the Serbian-Romanian state border. In my presentation, I will focus on the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Romania on the opening of the international border crossing Jasa Tomic-Fenj. Namely, Jasa Tomic is located in the municipality of Secanja and in the municipality from which I come. Of course, one such step is very important if for Jasa Tomic and the municipality of Sečanj and the Mediterranean. It will contribute to better co-operation and will further strengthen economic, cultural and other aspects of co-operation with neighbours. This international transition will allow a significant shortcut to the road to Temisvar, which, with savings in time, will contribute significantly to the discharge of other border crossings. Also, we will be better connected to 30,000 Serbs living in Romanian territory. The crossing will be open every day from 7.00 to 19.00 hours for face traffic and goods of up to 3.5 tonnes total. Projects to prepare the infrastructure are also planned to allow this transition to function in due course for 24 hours. Normally, behind a major project in this area, there is a long-standing activity of local self-government in Secchanj, synchronising the work of numerous instances on both sides of the border. Also, I express my great gratitude to the government of the Republic of Serbia for its support. The efforts made by local self-government Secane, co-ordinated activities with our neighbour Romania and government support have yielded one such result that is very important for our entire district. Therefore, on the day set for the vote, I will support these and other agreements, which I propose not only to the SNS MPs, but also to all MPs of this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22397	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22398	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, is the very fact that nearly a quarter of a century has passed since the adoption of this last law speaks of the urgency that the issue of arms and ammunition in general is again and system office. The possession of weapons, not only of trophy and heritage, represents in our society some kind of, I believe, just misread traditions, raised even quite excessively to the level of the national class. On the other hand, the possession of weapons often due to the replacement of the thesis certainly the ultimate anachrono still has a sense of entry into the adult world, not to say a kind of symbol of declaration of belonging to a stronger sex. I'm not even going to mention the arsenals of weapons left over from the last of the Balkan wars. How much of it and what it's got, I can't even think about it. I guess it uses illegal intermediaries to brag or to warn other people that they simply know who they're dealing with. The next important thing that makes this issue more complicated is the overall increase in violence. In all conflict situations, the possession of weapons can be an additional trigger that will turn the seemingly benign situation into a tragic event. That's why I want to believe that the legislator had all this in mind, except for the other professionally implying circumstances and acted on them preventively. One thing is not quite clear to me, and I'm going to allow myself to be misunderstood, so I'd like to ask for an explanation. In fact, if I'm not mistaken, a cold weapon, among other means designed as a means of necessary defence, such as shockers, sprays and the like, is not quite clear what is meant by cold weapons, which kind of knives, daggers, swords, or any of them, which can significantly change the license for possession of those weapons. In doing so, this category of weapons is allowed for possession of over 16 years of age, although only for possession and not for carrying. It is also a moment to remind ourselves of what we all know, that children from primary and secondary schools, of course, a small number of them, but a dangerous enough number, carry with them various devices from the arsenals of the type D weapons concerned. The fact that it is mostly used for intimidation, not for use, is not enough reason for such a liberal provision, so I think the opposite of my colleagues across the street and I think that this age censorship of 16 should simply be increased, because the license for possession is already merely a provocation for such a young being, so it will be difficult to resist the temptation to bear it even if it is commendable, of which it is only a small step to use it. One of the things I would like to mention at this time is the provisions of Articles 12, in particular, paragraphs 7 and 8 relating to the procedure for issuing a health assurance, especially the changes in the mental state of the individual. I understand that authorized doctors are obliged to make any change they notice in the mental state and the status of the individual to report to the police, but what if he hasn't heard from the doctor at all? So I would like to agree with my colleague Obradovic that the time of five years for mandatory medical assurance should be drastically shortened. I'm not going to make a rough analogy with the fact that every year we undergo a technical examination. It may sound inappropriate, but trust me, the comparison is not without a foundation. Bad economic situation, poverty, job loss, unfortunately, are enough triggers for individuals with seemingly stable psycho. One more thing I'm gonna end up with. The issue of safe storage of weapons is regulated by Article 18, paragraph 6, where it is said that the conditions for the safe place of arms will be prescribed by the sublaws of the minister. Why? There's no need to mention. This is why, first of all, until another law happens to us called a tragically injured child, as we have today on the agenda, which we could have saved that we acted preventively. I know that the idea of banning weapons in a house where minors live is very extreme and radical and that they would hit a body of rights and freedom, but often and dreary practice keeps warning us that what we call a culture of holding and carrying weapons in our home is at a very low level. That is why it is the obligation of Parliament to give as much warning as possible and to minimise the possibility that these uneasy events should occur at all, and especially through the promotion of daily demonstrations that haughtiness, violence, prosaclouse, rudeness must be judged, not applauded everywhere, and in this home in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22399	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22400	Dear President, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Stefanovic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, I express my satisfaction, Mr Minister, that by your choice, and by coming to the head of this Ministry of the Interior, you have achieved envious results in all areas of internal affairs. When I say that, just allow a few data that I've come up with. The total crime rate from May to October 2014, since you were a minister, means by only six months, has been reduced by 9.4% compared to the previous year. Mr. Minister, only in the field of crime detection has 16% more been discovered in that period than in the previous one. Furthermore, the total number of crimes of the general criminality has been reduced by 11.5%. Furthermore, the number of severe murders has been reduced by 37.1%. The discovery of crime in the area of economic crime has increased by 18.3%, and activities have been particularly focused on the detection of those forms that have been harmful to the Republic of Serbia's budget and the pockets of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, you seized 18% more narcotics than in the previous period, this is only in six months. I could count for a long time, but I really want to give up. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia recognized it very well. I hope they know that in the end and reward not only you, but also the party you belong to. Respected MPs and citizens of Serbia, fire protection is as old as the discovery of fire, and has been constantly developing over time. Back in the ancient age, before Christ, there were fire-fighting units, which were made up of slaves, whose task was to prevent both fire-fighting in fairies and protection. The famous Emperor Augustus organized fire units that consisted of seven concords, corresponding to about seven military firefighters. Despite the development and promotion of fire protection through the centuries, fires occur bigger or smaller. I'll just mention a few. In 1666, the Great Fire in London burned down most of London and only 85 churches, the Great Fire in Chicago in 1871, the Great Fire in Mexico, which was earlier in 2012, was the biggest fire in the history of the United States, burned down 22,000 acres of national forest, and in 1945 in Lisbon died, when people were involved, 60,000 people, and in 1945 there were killed, believe it or not, 135,000 people. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, the biggest fire in the country's history was in Nis in 1521. Mr. Minister of the Interior, you made a major move to support Branko Miladinović's initiative, the father of the late Tamara, who died in a fire at the New Sad Club "Contrast" in April 2012 and proposed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this Tamara law and propose it to the MPs for consideration and adoption. This is also an opportunity to give an assessment of the state of the proposal for a measure to improve protection. I'll give it up. But let me just say one sentence that the number of firefighters is below the European level. While I'm already on that data, let me say that our firefighters did honorably and heroically every mission not only to put out fires, but also to floods, especially those last ones in which they showed their heroic work. Our firefighters are indeed folk heroes, headed by Mr. Commissioner Maric, who is here today among us and I welcome him. Finally, these are two outstanding and well-conceived laws, which will certainly speed up the reforms that our government is implementing, which will contribute to the modernisation of Serbia that requires more work, more order, more efforts, more day-to-day improvement, and all in order for our children to be better tomorrow. The Serbian Progressive Party, as colleagues and colleagues have already announced, will vote in favour of these laws, but I also call on opposition MPs, as I see signs that they will give their voice to these laws, as this will show at least a little, even this way, that they care about Serbia's progress and the modernisation of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22401	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman today, Mr. Arsic, Dr. Stefanovic and the respected guests of the MUP, have submitted 17 amendments to improve the proposed laws on arms and ammunition and fire protection, gentlemen. I'd like to use these five minutes at my disposal in this principle debate to announce three groups of objections, first of all, to these two draft laws, gentlemen. I've placed our objections in three groups in this order. The first group consists of a certain type of superficiality and negligence in the approach of the promoter. The other kind concerns non-compliance, gentlemen, with the content of other laws, and the third group of missed opportunities to place something in these drafts of the law as content that monitors modern flows. My proposal is to take order from the first group of remarks - surface and negligence. Here, for example, calls the Fire Protection Act. Dear gentlemen, here, in the name of the bill that we have received here, here's the title, says the bill on amendments to the Fire Protection Act. Dear gentlemen, Minister Stefanovic, did you have the final reading of this text, that in the title you stole such a mistake, that the title on the other page did not match what was the title on the cover page? Look, we're here in the Assembly, we keep repeating, the sanctuary of political life, the failures of this kind, the honored gentlemen, make an impression of superficiality and negligence. If you need one course of academic writing, methodology for making regulations, respected gentlemen, please address the MPs of the opposition. And it can be a constructive approach. It's a serious remark to me, gentlemen. The second group of objections concerns inconsistency, as far as I could tell, with the content of other laws. And here, I can make two examples here. For example, it seems to me to be Article 22. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is not absolutely in accordance with Article 25. A bill of arms and ammunition. The contents of these members direct us to the answer to the question – who, when, approves of carrying weapons, for example, and outside of working hours, respected gentlemen? I've noticed in the contents of these two members two different laws, non-compliance. If we adopt laws here that don't comply with other laws, then what else are we doing than making a legal mess, gentlemen? We are moving away from the basic principle of our Constitution - the rule of law. The assembly can't do that. Or, for example, it seems to me that some of the terms defined in Article 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act is not in line with the same concepts in the Planning and Construction Act, which we changed twice here only in December. I can give an example of objects of public purpose. In one law they define themselves in one way, in another law in another way, and then what do we tell the citizens? What is the object of public purpose, gentlemen, when a citizen in one law reads that it is one and another law that it is another? The third group of objections, gentlemen, concerns some missed opportunities. For example, in Article 17. The bill of arms and ammunition, concerning the issue of the gun list, we believe that in this attitude 1, for example, we need to add one thing, and here's one thing. For example, it is said – a natural person who, on the basis of the approval of the competent authority, carried out the procurement of weapons, and now we come up with a key thing – submits a request to the competent authority for the issue of the gun list within eight days. But we believe that, upon request, that person should also file evidence of the origin of the weapon and evidence of the ballistic profile of the shot fired, gentlemen. Why don't we put this as part of the content of this member and the following members who are concerned with this content to be adapted to this content, gentlemen? We say this supplement would facilitate the art of crime. That would look like a fingerprint. Easier to discover the perpetrator, gentlemen. I'm terribly interested in the Minister's thinking of these three groups of objections I've made here, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22403	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22404	It seems to me that the only thing that's right is that you made it very loudly. I'll give you that. You were very loud. As for this, I thought you had more serious access to this law, and I'm sorry that of the five minutes you have, you've devoted two and a half minutes to the title of the law that's either a technical mistake or something else. Does it matter to the people, their families, who were killed by the fire? It is important for them to pass this law today. It's important to them that something like this never happens again. I am sorry that this one performance does not seem serious enough to me as a minister, especially when it comes to laws that are difficult to guess and whose resolution, or failure, has hit a number of people so far. As for the non-compliance related to fire protection, we insist on the name – the main project of fire protection, because the waist says so, so say people who deal with fire protection. I have complete confidence in them. If it is necessary to bring some other laws into line, we can discuss this in government and in parliament, after all. It's important and it seems a lot more serious to me that this is the main project of fire protection than the elaborate. I think we'll insist on this sort of thing. Anyway, I don't know what more I could add to your remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22405	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, although I don't see what can be answered after this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22406	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman of today, Mr Arsic, Dr Stefanovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I apologize if I speak a little louder, but I have to repeat here – I have consulted on my speech with one hearing pathology expert Professor Milisavljevic. He told me, and he's the most professional of us here to assess that thing, that I speak properly, gentlemen. But despite that, I can apologize if it bothers anyone. The second thing, Minister Stefanovic asked the question – does it matter what the name of the bill is, is there a mistake in that name, gentlemen? Do you know what is behind this question, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament? The question behind the issue of Minister Stefanovic is the question – should we respect the spelling of the Serbian language, gentlemen? Do we here have to respect the grammar of the Serbian language, gentlemen of honor, or can the National Assembly come up with whatever comes to mind? Dear gentlemen, I believe that since our National Assembly is a central political institution in our constitutional system, let me repeat here, the sanctuary of political life, that both spelling and grammatical impeccable texts must come here, gentlemen. Third thing, Mr. Arsic, which I would like to say here to Minister Stefanovic. Minister Stefanovic responded only to the first group of remarks concerning the superficiality and negligence of the promoters, but not to the other two groups, respected gentlemen, objections – inconsistency with the content of other laws or missed opportunities, for example, regarding the possibility of introducing a ballistic profile of a shot fired, respected fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22407	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22408	Right to tell you, I meant to say something, but it's not worth it. I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22409	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22410	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I agree with the previous speaker that the Assembly is a sanctuary. But you don't come to the sanctuary in jeans and colorful shoes. So if someone wants to rightfully represent this as a sanctuary, then proportionate to their desires, aspirations, they should also have a style of dress so that they can rightly determine that the Assembly is a sanctuary of democracy. I've been listening to the previous speaker for days, and I expect to learn something, something applicable, but besides dry rhetoric and loud tone, I've almost learned nothing else. The old proverb says that when someone was too loud, his arguments were very thin and after the presentation of the previous speaker, I could conclude that his arguments were very thin. I'll try to talk about the law. I will certainly vote for him, however, I believe that our problem is not in a legal weapon, but in an illegal one. This is the third law in which I participate as an MP, and we always tighten regulations about legal weapons, that is, those who legally possess weapons, we tighten regulations and norms, but I think it's time to deal with illegal weapons, which, according to the minister himself, has between 200 and 900 thousand. What I'm saying is that we should do something about it and my suggestion is that such a weapon be redeemed, since it's mostly owned by an orphanage that has escaped from various wars. I think that some law or regulation that would deal with the purchase of illegal weapons, its reparation, export or partial equipment of some of our units of arms that are useful to such units, I think the problem of illegal weapons would be solved. I think criminals with every law that tightens the conditions for legal gun owners to favor themselves in a certain way because it's not to expect them to even ask permission to purchase weapons and I think they're our main problem, especially in the villages where they rob, kidnap, kill, where old men, old women are killed on their property and in their possessions. I think they're safe. I think it is necessary to bring this law into line with the Criminal Code that this necessary defense is regulated in the right way because the current law almost gives the criminal freedom to go into possession without fear, into someone's apartment, to endanger someone's life, the life of their family, to endanger their property, since he, as an illegal gun owner, can safely account for the fact that the victim, first of all, does not carry arms on the streets, because they do not have a license to carry, and second of all, that when he enters into someone's space, apartment or company for a reason, knowing the Criminal Code better than the victim, knows that the victim is very difficult to use the weapons that he or she has a license to keep, he is almost certain that the victim will not be able to withdraw the weapon lightly, given that the necessary defences that are defined by the criminal code, which should certainly be brought into line with this law, he is almost certain that the victim will not give him adequate resistance. From the citizens' point of view, we should first expect the criminal to shoot at us first so that only then can we use our weapons, which is not the case in some democratic states. Thus, this necessary defense, or self-defense, is defined far more loosely, gives right to the owner, person and owner of some property to give adequate resistance to the criminal. I would like some new law or regulation to define that illegal weapons are somehow collected, because those who illegally possess weapons are certainly in advantage. They're free of training, they're free of medical examination. They have no valid reason for possession and no one appreciates it, and criminals are even freed from the fear that the victim will resist. In terms of borders, since we are bordering with several EU countries, Romania, Hungary, Croatia, Bulgaria and given the latest exodus of Albanians and since the minister is here and at the demands of 60,000 cosmetian Albanians to be issued the passports of the Republic of Serbia, I would suggest that the minister do not issue such passports at all because we will have a problem regardless of our humanity. We will have a problem in the future given the characteristics, i.e. in the way in which in Western Europe a certain population of Cosmeta performs, Albanian nationality. I'm up for these passports not to be betrayed at all. I have an understanding of their exodus, but I do not see a "merciful angel" that will punish refugees as they appear in 1999, as he punished the Republic of Serbia in his own time. The exodus is the guilt of the international community and I appeal to the ministry not to interfere in such matters in any way, and I particularly appeal not to issue passports to Kosovo Albanians since not only did they raise weapons to this country, but because they could also be a problem in international politics in some future time when the RS government will communicate with the international community, or with EU countries. In such situations, if their residence is in Serbia and we issue passports, in another readmission we can have an ungrateful position. I have to say, I'm satisfied with curbing the crime rate, given the situation found, particularly by the economically devastated state, is socially almost unsustainable. As an MP, I'm satisfied with the security situation because we found a state that was like Mars. There were living conditions in it, but life was gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22411	The People's Messenger Milan Petric has the word, and let the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22412	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected representatives of the government and the ministry, the Honored Chairman, we have today a package of laws and I will be based on two concrete laws. A bill on arms and ammunition in which I assume it is the intention to better regulate and define this area and, in accordance with that intention, I propose amendments to the National Association for Weapons of Serbia and note that their aim is also precision, protection and equal representation of all the users of the weapons. As part of this bill, we notice certain disagreements in the introduction of some new terms, about the disputable repair of weapons we consider to be, other than financially illogical, to say, that in some domain, there is also a criminal act on the use of signal weapons that I consider both inescapable equipment for climbers and scouts, and even in theatres, then on the abolition of trophy weapons where a violation of the rights of former security services occurs, also in the area of arms transport that is sold without a license. We believe that the law does not fully comply with the acts of the other states, even in some parts it is more unnecessaryly stricter and contains some discriminatory relationship between a legal person and a natural person. I would especially like to point out that I expected this law or some of the following laws to be contained and cover areas such as the whole range of shooting sites where, you will admit, however, we need precision in defining not only their regulations but also their own legal provisions, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the hunting economy is not sufficiently exploited, although we believe that we have enough natural resources to do so and that it is necessary through the law to regulate it and to encourage appropriate work, and according to the data that I have passed on to the hunting economy in us, some 50,000 euros per year on an annual basis. In Hungary, the figure is ten times higher and goes up to 500,000, while in Austria it reaches an incredible 50 million. So perhaps in some future moments we should think about putting in certain laws. I say, although I will vote in favour of this law, this bill, I would once again invite my fellow Members, as well as the representatives of the Government, to carefully analyse the amendments I have proposed and to which I believe I can make a significant contribution to the proposed Arms and Ammunition Act. As far as the draft fire protection law is concerned, I can only express regret over the way it came into the congregation procedure. We are all aware of the tragedy that has taken place and to say that it is commendable that field control will increase the parameters regarding the prescribed technical and security conditions. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22413	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22414	Just one short thing about a trophy weapon. We now have a new category, actually two new categories. One is called an old weapon, and the other is called an incapacitated weapon. What was the problem with the trophy weapon? There was a problem with abuse. Someone gets a trophy weapon that even though it has a trophy name, is perfectly capable of fact, and you have the ability to use it, and if you don't have regular records, you don't have a license to keep such a weapon, you don't have a license to carry it, etc. So now we can give people the opportunity to translate those weapons into weapons from category B, weapons of personal security, pay taxes and get permission and everything else. Those who want to wear it as incapacitated, not to pay anything, water the pipe, disable the impact needles or whatever is already technically prescribed or put it, if that's the weapon as the definition of the old weapon that was manufactured before 1900 or which has a special historical value, as we have in my family, my grandfather from World War II brought a gun that has a special historical value. That's why you put a certain degree. Either we have that weapon capable of fact, there are certain directions or it's disabled, and then it's treated differently. It is now a European norm. This is something that exists in EU legislation and that is something we have committed ourselves to by accepting Chapter 24.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22415	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the ministry, unfortunately, a tragic event in Novi Sad has initiated amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act. It was necessary by amending the law to increase the degree of security in public-purpose facilities from the point of view of fire protection. It's a good thing the amendments to the law are precise on which the objects refer to these changes. I think it is also positive that consent to facilities from the aspect of protection against fires to carry out certain activities must be obtained in the MUP. A minimum of technical conditions is also set in line with the purpose of the facility, established the basis for the ban on carrying out operations unless conditions for the evacuation of people etc. are provided. I welcome these changes, and I think they will help reduce the number of victims in the next period of fires. I would like to comment that it has been too long a period since the initiative to amend the law until the day of the agenda. On 24 October 2012, therefore more than two years ago, Mr. Predrag Maric, chief of the IMP for emergency situations, announced that the law quotes "tomorrow in the assembly procedure", so on 25 October 2012. It was then said that the bill is realistic and that it takes little political will to amend the existing law. It stressed then that support for Tamara's law was also given by then Prime Minister and Minister of the Ministry of Interior, Mr Ivica Dacic. And, finally on December 25, 2014, so after more than two years, the government passed this law, which is known to vote the opposition, and directs it to the National Assembly for consideration. What prevented the previous, or this government from putting these extremely important amendments to the Fire Protection Act on the agenda earlier? I'd look at this law from another angle. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a fire protection strategy for the period from 2012 to 2017 on 21 March 2012. It, among other things, describes and assesses the situation in the area of fire protection, so let's say, among other things, that the number of firefighters, rescuers, is below the European standard. That insufficient filling of fire-saving units is a quality, professional and psychophysical human resources to carry out protection activities including the recruitment of disabled persons. There are also problems in the equipment of vehicles that are necessary for interventions. There are other problems, but I'll just focus on some. According to data I was able to find, the number of firefighters in all of Serbia is 3,200, and European standards require one per 1,000 inhabitants. Fire department capacity to systemize between 60% and 70%. Otherwise, the systematicisation done is not in line with European norms, it is far less. The budget for 2013, scheduled for the employment of 500 firefighters, but employed only 170. Otherwise, the chief of the Emergency Sector, Mr. Maric, reports that Serbia has 3,100 firefighters, and 7,000 thousand are needed. That due to lack of funds she has the least firefighters in the region. The situation regarding the age of fire trucks in Serbia is no better. Namely, the average age of fire trucks is 25 years old, some of which are 40 years old. It is known that fire rescue units in 2013 had 28,843 interventions, of which 22,007 in fire-explosion, 41 explosions, 1,975 technical interventions. 1,404 people were rescued and 30 firefighters were injured during the intervention. I believe that firemen are truly heroes, since they work in extremely difficult circumstances, inadequately equipped with extremely long equipment. The budget for 2015 was awarded to 250 million dinars, 700 million dinars in 2016 and 800 million dinars in 2017. My questions, Mr. Minister, refer to the Action Plan for implementing the Fire Protection Strategy from 2012 to 2017 - has it been done? I couldn't find her on the M.O.P. website or on the government website. What is the government planning on making a necessary increase in the number of firefighters? What will the government do about increasing the number of adequate fire trucks, i.e. adequate fire department equipment? I'm sure you're sharing my opinion that apart from the brave firefighters, we need adequate equipment and vehicles. As far as the rules of fire protection are concerned, I have one clue. Article 28 states that, among other things, residential buildings provide rules to protect against fires that cover, and then, under the 1st organisation of the technological process, in a way that the risk of outbreaks and spread of fires is removed, and that in the event of its outbreak, evacuation of people and property is ensured. Under 2. – It is necessary to draw up an evacuation plan and instructions for handling fires. Paragraph 3 states that the evacuation plan, the fire instructions, must be highlighted in a visible place. Since we know that the tenants are the owners of the building, and that the tenants' congregations don't work, I mean they don't work properly, the way they should, my question is, who's going to make up, say, an evacuation plan for residential buildings, or soliders with over four, six, ten floors? Will sublegal acts resolve this misunderstanding? It is necessary to carry out a cross-section of fire extinguishing equipment and their regular six-month control in all multi-storys. In article 84 relating to infringements of natural persons, I do not agree with the proposal that fines of 10,000 dinars, penalties for infringements of a natural person, if they burn the remains of foreign crops, garbage, plant residues, in the open space. Why, in this way, practically mild punishment, encourage this very activity, if known to have, for example, been, two to three years ago, material damage from forest fires amounted to 50m euros, and 78 people were killed by wild fires? Once again, I ask why the penalty is minimalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22417	The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22418	Unfortunately, when I became Minister of the Interior, when I finished a detailed analysis of everything that exists in the internal affairs portfolio, and therefore the emergency sector, I saw that there were many years, not to say for decades, that many things were not being renewed, that there were not enough funds. I can tell you one of the main reasons, one of the things that I think we should change, is that it was so stolen in this country that there was never any money for it. All those who put their hands in the hands of the citizens, who have been pillaging, being rich, becoming billionaires in various previous times, but not only did they rob, you always have people who are willing to rob something, unfortunately. Only now is there a serious will to bring these people to justice. There is now a serious will to be tried, to be prosecuted by investigative authorities regardless of their political, party, friendly, brotherly, godfathership. That's the thing we have to insist on. There is no cure for this country without this one completely systematic approach to fighting corruption, something that in fact destroyed a lot of money from Serbian citizens. One fire vehicle costs an average, if you want to take it to be a decent vehicle of about 250,000 euros. Just one fire truck, average, not spectacular and not special. I won't even tell you about helicopters or other means. The average age of our helicopters is retail near my age, which is really one bad thing. These guys from the helicopter unit and their commander Kostic are working so hard and they're making so much effort that it literally all works that nobody can feel that way, but it's because they're professionals, they're serious people, and not because we had a lot of money to invest in it. We found the money and last year we paid for the repair of a helicopter that's been standing in Germany for some time. So that's the money we've provided, and that chopper's coming back to us now. We found the money to secure a number of firefighters, rescuers. Can we take another 5,000 now? We can't, it's just not real, but we're going to work on it to be a gradual reception, to be the reception that's going to fit, to say the most perilous of the fires, and hopefully in the next period we'll be able to solve it. As far as the tenant's congregation is concerned, I know these people aren't fully trained, but we're not asking them to. We will in cooperation with them, the Emergency Sector through its district units will work with every congregation of residents and local self-government on evacuation plans, fire protection plans. It's just, we're gonna help, there's no other way. To wait for it to fall out of the sky, it won't, it's stupid to do that. That we expect those people who don't have training to do it, and they're not professionals to write it themselves and do it, they can't, it's not real. The only thing that's real is for us to start, to start working with the tenant's congregation, because by law, they're legal persons who are responsible. We go from apartment to apartment, it's simple and it's not real. So we're going to try to mobilise people as much as possible, because it's in the end and in their interest. They live in these residential buildings, and it's in their interest that there are these plans for all people to meet. Once, that civil protection was even more effective and functional than it is today. I hope that some of the changes that we are planning in the coming period will also help us to provide a little more funding for the sector and to strengthen civil protection through these plans as one of the structures that we have. Then we will have more opportunities, but certainly I ask all MPs to always keep that in mind when we talk about all future laws concerning the MUP. We need your help. So I need help just because I didn't inherit the wonderful and fantastic and perfect, as the state didn't, and the MUP shared the fate of the state. We try not to leave these people without funds and not to be collateral damage, but simply when it comes to such expensive purchases. We don't buy anything, the MUP doesn't buy cars, he doesn't buy cars to drive, the only thing we buy, we buy those funds that we need for everyday work. We get something from donations from local self-government, which is the next stage of development, because certainly without local self-government and it's the next law that's likely to be found here in the Assembly, which is the Anti-Government Protection Act, where one part of the burden will have to take over local self-government and that's something that's completely real. Of course, most of the burden will be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture. It's pointless for the MUP to protect the seeded surfaces. We really don't know, we don't do that, and the data comes from the Hydrometerology Institute, and of course it's logical that those who give the evaluation of the city cloud are directly involved in the protection, because it's pointless that we buy rockets, the local self-government pays shooters, and the hydrometerological office gives the evaluation of the city clouds. It's an unsustainable system. Then who's to blame? Of course, we've been thinking about funding models to make it sustainable, not just pouring the hollow into the blank, but it's a similar thing, a lot of the problems we inherited, a lot of things to solve, we solve one by one. We made two billion dinars of old debts to pay back last year, and that's no small deal, two billion dinars for the MUP is a big number. I'll continue to act like one, and hopefully when I hand over the Ministry to another minister, his debts will be zero, and then we'll have a lot more money, the state is recovering, going towards one improvement, not for the night, it's just not real.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22419	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22420	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have a set of laws ahead of us, and I will talk about the law on readmission. In fact, we have a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on readmission, signed in Belgrade on 16 October 2014. The intention and aim of signing that agreement is primarily to improve the co-operation of the two friendly states in the area of combating illegal migration. The very concept of the readmission was, in fact, the surrender by the competent authorities of the state begged and at the same time the acceptance by the competent authorities of the requested party. This bill defines a very clear legal mechanism for the institutionalised, reciprocal and highly organised return of persons who are nationals of the Contracting Parties, and then of third-country nationals and those who are without citizenship, who are located on the territory of another country in an illegal or irregular situation. As regards the costs of transport incurred during the reading, the cost of salaries of the requesting state to the border of the state which is practically the final destination. If there is a need, the costs of the appointment of doctors and medical teams, social workers or guardians are foreseen, if they are minors, without parents. It still needs to be noted here that it cannot predict how much the state of Serbia will be in the role of the state of prayer or the requested party, i.e. that population migration varies from year to year, and the funds needed to implement this agreement cannot be planned. If more financial resources are needed, it will be provided via the MUP and within the limits foreseen by the fiscal strategy. Finally, it should be said that this law has 15 members, very clearly reasoned and legally justified, so that the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22421	The People's MP Borisav Kovacevic has the word, and let the MP Momir Stojanovic be prepared. You're giving up, Mr. Kovacevic? The word is Momir Stojanović. You're giving up too? All right. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22422	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss these important laws today, the draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, as well as a brand-new law on arms and ammunition. We believe that the area of fire protection is a very important area and that all social factors must be involved, not depending on the activities of one government, but involves actively including the whole society. The Fire Protection Framework is a fire protection strategy for the period 2012 to 2017, and in this respect, I point out that in the context of amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act, this strategy is not seen, i.e. it is not explained, which I am not saying that the text of the law does not rely on what the strategy is dealing with, but I believe it should have been done. I don't think it's a major failure, but simply as someone who deals with normative activity, I have to point that out. My colleague Branka Karavidić has already pointed out that we have failed to find an action plan, from which we can conclude that this action plan has not been adopted, which means that we do not have a certain basis for taking recommendations and measures in the area of fire protection, and therefore we cannot see whether the competent state authorities or other social factors work in that direction. I am expressing hope that the action plan will be carried out in the next period and in the end, to see whether the strategy, fire protection is sufficient or should be improved. I will rely on the parts of the strategy, and I will say that I have found that the strategy itself is apostrophe that the state of fire protection is unsatisfactory and that the problems and strategies have been identified that one of the biggest problems are these, that many buildings have been built near residential zones, without seat belts, relative to buildings nearby, with small storage spaces and inadequate access for fire vehicles. Then, that traffic infrastructure is unsatisfactory, then, that ammunition, explosives, explosives, as well as chemicals, dangerous waste is stored incorrectly, then, that there is insufficient preparation of fire protection entities to carry out preventive measures, that electrical and smoke installations are not properly maintained, damages and alienation of equipment and extinguishing agents and many others, in conclusion that the security culture of citizens is insufficient. Like I said, and through this you can see that the problem of fire protection is the activity of society as a whole. There are several ways we can improve the fire protection system. The need to adopt and amend it was initiated following an analysis of the existing normative framework, as set out in the Bill's proposal, and then the suggestions submitted by parents who were killed in the fire at the "Contrast" discotheque in Novi Sad and the professional public, and in order to increase the degree of security in public-purpose facilities from the aspects of fire protection under Tamara's Law initiative. So, on this occasion, I welcome the initiative that parents have, unfortunately, been initiated by the discotheque in Novi Sad. Also, I am pleased that the state authorities of the MUP recognized it and that it is in front of us today. I hope that this law will be literally applied and that it will contribute to the increase in the degree of security, but more importantly, I believe that the effectiveness of the control of objects of public purpose will be increased, so exactly what is treated by this law. As said in the previous section, the SDS will support this law. The second law on the agenda is the Law on Weapons and Ammunition, a brand-new law that should be passed if adopted, and I am sure it will be adopted, should amend the law that was passed in 1992. We should not also say that we are particularly emphasising how much the social situation has changed from 1992 to today. I would like to stress this opportunity that we are as an SDS parliamentary group, I have personally signed the bill which contained amendments to the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which had several members and which, in fact, contained the obligation to determine health skills and which contained the obligation of the MUP, that unless the conditions for which the weapons were given were obtained, this authorisation could be withdrawn. Since this initiative is corporalized in this bill, I am pleased about it and I welcome it, we will withdraw our bill, because we do not think it is necessary to exist, since it is already in the text of the law. With that in mind, I want to point out one thing. I think the big problems...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22423	counterpart Malovic, the time foreseen for the discussion of your parliamentary group has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22424	Okay. I believe that there will be increased control of the conditions for safe accommodation and weapons storage, since it is not legal matter. I believe it will be arranged by a sublegal act that brings in the MUP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22425	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint, principled and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22426	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only be brief on the draft law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act and the 7, 8 and 9 points, which speak of border crossings with Romania. About this first topic, of course, we support these amendments and additions to the law. I would take this opportunity by the representative of the MUP, with the minister I had the opportunity to speak, speak, speak, speak, and the last time he was in Presevo. Presevo is in divorce, a section of the Black Sea and Aegean plums. There are no special hazards, when it comes to floods, because there are small streams, water flows, but that's why, as is the danger of fires everywhere, is present. I've been following the situation for a long time in this area. The fire protection is really at a very low level, especially in the last two decades, that human beings are represented with not least, but below the minimums provided for by law, and even when it comes to equipment, it's already out of date, and that the tanker is 30 years ago, which is not even functional, so that the facilities burn down until the end of the aid from Bujanovac or Vranj. In the spirit of the law, it must be made concrete that at least minimum conditions are met, both in human terms and in terms of equipment. We also welcome these openings of three border crossings with Romania and they are heading towards international exchanges, freedom of movement, which, of course, should cover all areas. In some ways, with Macedonia, we have the same happiness as when it comes to the use of IPA funds. That question has become famous. It is very difficult to find a representative of the authorities to answer why only with Macedonia we do not have cross-border co-operation and the use of IPA funds of cross-border co-operation. It is the same fate when it comes to border crossings, at least one out of three, approved by the federal government in 2005, and not at least one of them opened. We have this situation that before setting the borders with Macedonia on the main local road connecting Presevo with two neighbouring municipalities in Macedonia, Lipkovo and Kumanovo, at least 10 times a day were trafficked by buses because they connect all the main settlements, of course, along the highway. Over the summer months, it is impossible to travel there, because you should get into the same line of waiting with all people who go to Greece or Turkey or Macedonia once a year, and people cannot perform daily jobs and family ties and any other connections that neighbouring villages have. They should wait and circle, instead of three kilometers to go 25 to 30 kilometers. The decision was made in 2005 for three demarcated crossings with Macedonia, and at least one would not open. That is why I say, I welcome these decisions, when it comes to this co-operation with Romania, and I really don't see any reason why this similar trend of co-operation will not be with Macedonia, especially as it goes through Macedonia to Greece and that the optics in Corridor 10 are far greater than it is certainly on the route of Serbia-Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-18-0.u22427	Thank you. Since no more reports have been made on the lists of parliamentary groups, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 9 of the agenda. We'll be working on Friday at 10:00 p.m.
