ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26083	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, I request first-row notice from the Government Office for Kosovo and Metohija on a case that took place on Friday (April 10th) in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica, when a dozen beatings in broad daylight attacked two students of Bosniak nationality from Novi Pazar. In this regard, I ask the Director of the Government Office for Kosovo Metohija - is he familiar with this case and did he, as Director of the Office, visit the beaten students of the Bosniaks and their families and make any contact, even if he called the family of beaten students? I'm also asking what's been done today to solve this case. I'm curious - were the beatings found that attacked two Bosniak students in the middle of the day in downtown Kosovo Mitrovica? I note that this is not the first time in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica the Bosniaks have been attacked and that in recent years there have been identical attacks on students from Sandzak, but also on the local Bosniak population. For this reason, I also ask that our security authorities - are they able to provide safe stay for our students from Sandzak who are studying in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica? In a situation where such attacks are repeated, and the authorities are unable to provide the students with safety, we need to think about inviting all students back to their homes and asking the government to continue their studies by opening medical and dental courses at the University of Novi Pazar because they are studying the highest number of students from Sandzak. We see that they have no free movement and are not safe on the streets of northern Kosovo Mitrovica. Once again, I draw attention that this is about a very sensitive problem. That's why I insist that I get the answers within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26084	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26085	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, respected colleagues, there are announcements by the Pristina authorities that the church of Christ Spas, located in Pristina, could be torn down due to the alleged lack of permits, i.e. urban documents. These announcements concerning this Orthodox temple must be taken seriously and should be adequately answered because the documentation is verifiable and it exists, as well as witnesses, participants who know the history of this sacred building. The architect of Prof. Spasoje Krunic designed the church of Christ Spas in Pristina. A solution allowing construction, citing the number of cadastrian parcels in Pristina, the Secretary for Urbanism, Construction and Environmental Protection of the city of Pristina issued a permit for the construction of a temple to the Serbian Orthodox Church on 15 February 1999. According to this document, the construction of the temple of Christ Spas in Pristina is allowed at the address of Valjevska no. 4. Because of the determination of the Pristina authorities to bring the church down, we ask the representatives of the Justice Ministry, because within that ministry, there is the Office for Co-operation with churches and religious communities, to make the most of their engagement with international institutions, in order to protect this religious facility. A design competition for this facility was launched in 1991, and the right to realisation was acquired by one of the most prominent members of the SPO Professor Spasoje Krunic. This distinguished professor of the Faculty of Architecture is available to the Ministry to testify on the circumstances of the construction of this temple. I repeat, this is very important, the design competition was launched in 1991, and the construction began in 1992. The church was built because of the need for Orthodox life, since Pristina was then the largest Serbian city in Kosovo and Metohija, and there was only one church in the city. The obstruction of local authorities led to the fact that the permit was only obtained in 1999. Without doubting that the ministry will take or have already taken the necessary steps, we hope that international institutions will react and protect this religious temple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26086	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26087	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members, I ask my question to the Ministry of Industry and Agriculture. There was a problem in Vojvodina with land purchased by Arabs for 25 years. Of the 4,000 hectares of state land that in the Ataris of Karadjordjeva, Backa Palanka and Baca won by the Arab-Serbian company, 2,000 hectares are still in parloga and is not modelled. Farmers in this neighborhood say there's nothing out of the announced record yields. The Emirates didn't drive, bought any tractors, our people there are a rental labor force, because it's well known that the Arabs are hiring our people from all around the villages to their tractors plowing that country. Our patrons wonder why they couldn't process that land, and Arabs, for example. I can. They ask -- what was the interest in getting land before domestic couples and at that price that wasn't available to our people? In Serbia comes potatoes from Europe, apples from Poland, technologies from Bulgaria, and our pairs from Kikinda and surrounding places, border places in Banat, go to Romania to work. I ask, in a contract signed by the Republic of Serbia and the Arab Republic, it says that the joint company will have 20% of the ownership stake in the Republic of Serbia and will have no investment obligation, while on the other hand, the United Emirates partner has taken the investment obligation of 140m euros over the next four years. That's how the Ministry announced it. In addition, in the next four years, in line with the investment plan, an additional 300 jobs have been planned on the territory of the municipality of Kula and Bačka Palanka, where the most countries and went to Emirates. The planned investments so far have not yet come and these plants that have been promised to sort, pack, store and process products, none of this has happened. So I ask the Ministry, maybe the police, internal affairs, businesses and agriculture, how many and what municipalities were rented for 25 years in the Arab country? How many people have been employed in every place so far, in every community? How much has the land been processed so far? Where is it and what is it sown? How many people got severance? How many tractors have the Arabs registered with us to this day, when I ask this question? I'm asking the Ministry of Finance a second question. Owners of residential buildings including apartment owners in multi-story buildings in Novi Sad have received solutions from the tax administration requiring the payment of disposal fees. More than 20,000 such solutions have arrived in Novi Sad. The solution sets out the basis by which this fee is paid, the Water Act, Article 170(2), states who is obliged to pay this fee. In the second paragraph of point 3 of this Article, the law provides that compensation shall not be paid by homeowners if water disposal is done by an atmospheric sewerage system. So, in Article 170 of that law, it states in paragraph 3 that a housing unless the draining of water is arranged for an atmospheric sewerage system. In addition, this solution is not allowed to appeal, but the bonds refer to the management of the administrative dispute against the solution and thus expose it to additional and unnecessary costs of court proceedings if they want to challenge a solution that is not based on the law. So I'm asking the Ministry of Finance why more than 20,000 resolutions have arrived in Novi Sad on the treatment charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26088	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26089	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I have two questions. The first question is for the Ministry of Economy and Mr Sertic's minister. We are all as national MPs and citizens of Serbia warmly welcomed by the agreement signed by the state of Serbia with foreign management at the "Smederevo Irons", but I would still have to ask a question to a respected minister who controls on behalf of the government and the state, and to say, the majority package of the action "Smederevo" because Smederevo remains 100% state-owned. Why unfortunately there is a problem that has been reportedly the last 10 days that the new management has taken over "Smederevo Iron". Because of citizens watching this transmission, and also because of the MPs who need to get acquainted with this issue, 21 foreign managers came there and of course went immediately to comb the companies that are suppliers of "Smederevo Irons". So far, while the Americans were owners of Sartida, from the age of 10, there were 30 domestic companies that were suppliers of the 30 domestic companies left with 24 domestic companies that supplied raw materials to "Zelezar Smederevo" in question with steel waste. What's going on today, unfortunately? Here I have the paper on which it is located, for example one letter from “Smederevo Ironworks” which went as a circus letter to all 24, all 24 companies are covered by this memo, and 24 companies employ more than 1,500 workers. But what is the biggest problem is the ultimatum in this letter, and the ultimatum consists of all suppliers being forced to give goods at prices from 15% to 20% lower than market prices, i.e. prices on the market, because steel is stock market waste and it is very easy to determine which are commercial and what are market prices. With this way, it would be very easy for you to bring any company in plus, but it is only a matter that will be paid and how simple the worker will be without a job in 24 suppliers' companies, only six more have accepted that under these conditions, which are, I say, and not fair and not marketable, continue to deliver the goods "Smederevo Irons", and Želizara and their management has easily explained that if not domestic producers that re-promatter, or raw materials, will be imported from Slovakia. My question is clear and concrete, Minister Sertić - what will the state do to protect domestic producers and domestic companies that are suppliers of "Smederevo Zelezare"? And another question since they're paid to these managers, and there's one more time to say 21 they probably pay from the state budget if Jelizara is a state-owned firm, I'd like to know, and probably most of the MPs are what those salaries are. It means that I specifically respond to the salary of individual managers at the Smederevo Irons who came abroad. The second issue concerns the agriculture minister because she is both a minister and a protection of the environment. All of them were witnesses before the Big Friday, ahead of the Easter holidays with one unkind incident that took place with the river Kubrsnica, which runs through the central part of the forest through the municipalities of Arangelovac, Topola and Smederjevska Palanka. Unfortunately, an unfavorable event occurred, which is that the river was blushed, or that the river was painted just before the big Friday. What is a big problem for us, I as a citizen Dragan Jovanovic, filed a criminal complaint against the "nn" person where I asked for a clear determination to find the culprit who made the river contaminated, that, of course, little everyone was playing with, let's say, the religious feelings of the Serbian citizens, and everyone knows what symbolism is and the Great Friday and the redness of the river, not to mention everything, to say, follow-up events, but here was working on poisoning. This is about the problems that the peasants had in the lower stream of the river, first of all with the cattle that drank that water and what would happen because if something like that continues, we'll have a food problem, because a large number of manufacturers there use that water to water their gardens and so on. I ask the minister to clearly define the responsible person and the guilty person and that the citizens of Serbia, both the Shumadia and the whole of Serbia, will be introduced to who has polluted the river Kubrsnica on the eve of the Great Friday and that these things are no longer repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26090	Thank you. Professor Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26091	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will repeat myself in one piece with counterpart Olena Papuga, which concerns a subject that is simply impossible to bypass today in Serbia. Given that the most important resources are citizens, people and countries. We know about the citizens how much this government cares about, and today I'm going to ask you a question to the Prime Minister, first of all, Mr. Vukic, about agricultural land. In fact, the Prime Minister and the Serbian government have decided to lease more than 4,000 hectares to Emirat companies on the basis of an interstate agreement to avoid a public tender. Of those 4,000 hectares received by Al Ravafet from Emirata, 2,000 hectares are now in the parloga. The two thousand hectares of the most fertile country in Vojvodina were not modelled in the autumn by good hosts throughout Serbia, as well as in Vojvodina. It is known when countries remain unsupervised in Serbia, but in Vojvodina, it is when a serious evil happens in the family, death or possibly when God does not give the boss of the house a drink and becomes useless for both family and society. Now, that's how it happens today with 2,000 acres of the most fertile country in Vojvodina, it's sparring, it's not processed, although it's been given to this company from Emiratabez public call, although the country's so far worked by families from the Bačka Palanka municipality, Bac, the Karadjordjevo Catastrian municipality. Although they paid twice as much rent as Al Ravafet pays. We ask the Prime Minister – did the contract he concluded with the company have provisions that the owner, or the tenant, is obliged to process the country? Because he was saying, we remember here in the O.R. that no one would take this country out of Serbia. It will not be taken away, but the burned country has no use for the citizens of Serbia. Count on these 4,000 hectares, gentlemen from the government, seven, eight tonnes of income how much would this food be produced in Serbia? how many families in Serbia could live off that production. Not only is this country not working, there is no promise that the country will be irrigated, that new equipment will arrive, that other farmers who are interested will receive the equipment and will be able to irrigate. You know who works that country? They work secondhand tractors, those 2,000 hectares that are being processed, used tractors from those places where the country is located. I'm asking the government if they're going to break the contract with this company? Will they seek damages and who is responsible for this situation? Just one more question - half of Serbia's radiation apparatus is not working. So, in Vojvodina, or Novi Sad, none, in Nis of two appliances works one, in Belgrade one machine works at the Institute of Ontology and Radiology of Serbia waiting for 400 people in Belgrade, 600 in Nis, 900 in Kamenica for radiation. Does this have anything to do with the fact that the health ministry is in negotiations with a foreign American company, that they take over the treatment of the most difficult patients in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26092	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26093	I ask the question of the Minister of Interior Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic and the Prime Minister Mr. Vukic, concerning the unpleasant events that took place in India these days, with a question – when and within what time will the MUP determine the identity of the person who has committed the threats and attempted forced activity towards Vladimir Jesic, Brother Goran Jesic in Indjia, as well as to establish doubtless who and whether someone has beaten the deputy president of Beocin municipality, to determine who and what way he pressured them, threatened them and tried to influence their voice, related to the survival of the municipal government in India, as well as what persons are they called, from which party? Also to determine who the person who rented the i.e. Take Rent and take vehicles that were later used for continuous patrolling, carrying suspicious persons, suspicious looks and suspicious motives throughout India, for days, with the intention of changing the electoral will of citizens in India, as well as in other municipalities in Serbia. I remind the interior minister that he owes us an answer to previously asked questions concerning incidents and violence that occurred both in Vrbas and in Srbobran, and in Mionica, that until today, Serbian citizens do not know who the people who were in those places were in the post of SNS election activities, who were acts of violence. We were promised several times that the identity of these persons would be revealed, no matter who these persons are and that they will be prosecuted. This has not happened until today, and I remind the Minister of the Interior, that for some of these perpetrators, names and last names have been delivered and that they know who these people are, like, in Verbas. To this day, we have no answer to that. The question for the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance – when and in what way and in what time will you return unconstitutional, unlawfully reduced pensions to Serbian pensioners and salaries that you have reduced, given that you cannot believe and simply feel uncomfortable about how well we are doing, and that the IMF has a good insight into the state of our public finances, which only records the pluses, which is, of course, false, but since you promised it, my question – when will you pay these people back and pay back, given that these people cannot put an end to today's Serbia's end. The third question concerns the Minister of Economy, Mr Sertic, and the Minister of Finance, Mr Vujovic, who I have already asked a question for, and I did not get an answer – how will you solve the problem on October 14th from Kruševac, Trajala, Zupe, "The first five-years", "Magnochroma" from Kralje and "The Car Factory" from the Kingdom, given that these workers expect a solution to their, otherwise, very difficult position, that it is completely uncertain what will happen to them, whether they will receive severances, in which direction the resolution of their problem will move, and knowing that this government has been able to bring professional foreign management in the case of "Zelezar". My question – why don't you bring paid professional foreign management into! October 14th at Trajal, at Magnochrom, at the First Five-year-old, in Zup, and thus solve the existential problem of these people, since you have shown that you can bring in the experts from abroad that you pay fat, why are Serbian businesses other than "Gelezar" Smederevo discriminated against? Also, in the end, I want to say, respected citizens, and my question to the finance minister, Mr Vujovic, how you're going to solve the problem and are you aware that in these five minutes, the almost speech I had and asking questions to you, your government has owed Serbia more than 30,000 euros. Just what I was saying and asking the government, respected citizens, cost you 35,000 euros in debt by this government who doesn't even know what it's spending that money on, only knows that the debt is constantly increasing and all indicators, and especially the unemployed, which is now officially confirmed growth in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26094	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Mirko Krlic, as the last reported MP for asking questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26095	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer my parliamentary question to the Prime Minister of the AP Vojvodina, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, but as I do not expect to receive adequate answers from that direction, I also refer to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the minister of justice, the minister of police, and I think the finance minister would have something to say about this. I am interested – is it true that in an illegally formed office for European affairs AP Vojvodina, its head in Brussels, Predrag Novak, otherwise a Canadian citizen, I will later explain why I am undermining his co-worker, Andrea Stajic, from 2006 to 2014, received regular two salaries. First Novak, worth 3,445 euros and 66,000 dinars, and second Stajic, significantly less 2,460 euros and 100,000 dinars. I'd like to know if receiving two salaries is legal? It may be, but I certainly know it's practical, because if a man accidentally brings a few days into New Sad, say a year, it's a good thing he doesn't have to go to the exchange room, he's got enough cash. Of course, that's not all, so I'm interested in whether it was true that the salaries were not included in the cost of telephones, Internet use, office materials, fuel, representations, apartment, food, official vehicle and secretary, all of this was paid extra. For the Minister of Justice in particular – is it true that due to additional abuses, job failures, for this salary, they obviously did not even come to work, ordering airline tickets for a year in advance and boastfulness, mobinga, against Novak, were filed three lawsuits before the Basic and Higher Court in Novi Sad. For the police minister and for this reason, I have underlined Canadian citizenship – is it true because of the suspicion that he represented the interests of other states and carried out, and because of the release of official secrets against Predrag Novak, a criminal report has been filed. Only a question arises – whose personnel solution were mentioned by expropriating representatives of the AP Vojvodina, and who are the other members of this organisation? Now, the office has won its legal successor, it is the European Affairs Fund AP Vojvodina. I am interested in whether these legal successors are realistically meeting the objectives set out in the programme, which is to improve the economic, scientific, educational and tourist capacities of the AP Vojvodina? The data presented in the press and the answers that have been inherited by Novakov since May 2014, Sinisa Lazic, with strong European successes of the Fund, has not yet made clear to citizens the results of the current number of employees of the European Business Fund, the AP Vojvodina, their expertise, their monthly incomes and then all the other incomes and expenditures that he apparently has. Is it true that the successor of Novak, Sinisa Lazic, from 2014 to today, receives a salary of 431.000 dinars and his PR, a public relations expert, is receiving 316.000 dinars? There are dear MPs and we represent some public of the people of Serbia, but what is it for the PR of a Lazic. I would like to request information on the current number of employees of the European Affairs Fund, the AP Vojvodina, their party membership, their monthly incomes and all other incomes that it obviously has, if Vojvodina is underwater, as one respected MP claimed here a few days ago, I think that the answers to these questions could tell us who is dragging Vojvodina to the bottom of the Pannonian Sea, especially if, here we follow the latest developments in India, we follow the activities of Brother Goran Jesic, Vladimir Jesic, the defence of the Tatar hill, the apartments in Vienna, etc? The Duchess is underwater, and I can agree with that, but once again, you can see who's at the bottom of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26096	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Nada Lazić, Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Đerić, Ljiljana Nestorović, Branka Bosnjak and Srdjan Dragojevic. We were presented the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of Parliament has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the second session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2015, held on 18, 19, 20 March 2015. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 18 March 19, 20 March 2015. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, there is also a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and proposals for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 135 of the total 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group proposed that, by emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who submitted their lives to the National Assembly on 9 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 15, against – no one with abstention – voted 129 out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the law on the National Bank of Serbia, which a group of 12 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. Does the MP Dr. Janko Veselinovic want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26097	Thank you. This is the third time I've tried to convince the ruling majority to put three laws on the agenda that would facilitate the position of officials in charge who can't repay their loans, and given above all that the state is supporting the interests of financial institutions' banks at the expense of citizens. Today I will not talk too much about the norms I have proposed in these laws, I will try to show you the fate of the people who hide behind this state's relationship with them. True, I know that I will not deceive your tears, perhaps only Prime Minister Vukic could do it for self-punishment not to go to the bathroom, but I ask you to listen to the fate of the people who, according to the proposal, these three laws should be protected. A married couple from Novi Sad in March 2008 took a 45 000-euro loan, which was 60,000 euros in Swiss francs. They took a loan for half a 40 square-square apartment. For seven years, they've been returning the loan neatly. At the time the bank increased interest rates, they themselves determined the course even though they had a clearly defined course under the contract and the currency certainly increased. The first war they paid was 16,000 dinars. So 16 thousand dinars, or 120 euros. Today the war this family pays is 40,000 dinars. So their war with 16,000 dinars increased by seven years to 40,000 dinars, or 120 euros to 333 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26098	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26099	I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26100	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 138 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which a group of 12 MPs of the Boris Tadic Group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. Does the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26101	From a loan that was 45 000 euros in 2008, they returned 25,000 euros. Today, the bank owes 50,000 and 120 euros. So they took a 45,000-euro loan, they paid back 25,000 euros, today they owe 50,000 120 euros, according to the bill proposed by the National Bank of Serbia. What does that mean? That means that the war that used to be half her salary is now one and a half her salary. Meanwhile, one member of this family is out of a job, without being able to return the loan. In addition, even though they took the loan for half the apartment, they owe the bank now a value greater than one apartment. If they continue to repay the loan, their return amount would be over 100,000 euros over the next 18 years, although they took a 45 000-euro loan. Gentlemen, I'm asking you, do you think this is a responsible state? That this is a state that protects its citizens? I see you're smiling, talking to each other and not interested in this question. These in Serbia are 30,000 families, hundreds of thousands of those families. Another example is the Belgrade family. They took a 43,000-euro loan in 2008. They've paid back 20,000 euros. It owes another 40,000 euros. So they had a war paid by 20,000 dinars in 2008, and now they have a war of 45 thousand dinars. Instead of a loan of 43,000 euros, their loan is now 70,000 euros. So double the size. In this case, the wife was out of a job. So it's about the classic interest of banks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26102	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a draft law on special terms and method of reconciliation of the obligations of residents of residential credits, with a currency clause in the Swiss francs, which a group of 12 MPs from the Boris Tadic Group – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. Does the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26103	Three laws – Amendment to the Law on the National Bank, amending the law relating to the protection of consumers of financial services and a special law relating to specific savings which have been committed in Swiss francs, should protect all credit users who have taken credit and who have lost the opportunity to repay them, who have returned a significant part of the loan, however, do not allow their receipts to return two loans in relation to the amount they took at that time. According to the Association of Efficiencys, which protects the interests of credit users who took credits where banks get extra profits and the State, or the National Bank, which has increased its salaries these days, does not want to protect citizens, we believe that MPs should have this in mind, to accept that these laws are being placed on the agenda, so that in the coming period they do not have more and more families on the street, so that they do not have tomorrow's lawsuits in front of the courts, in front of Strasbourg, so that they do not have families that suffer not only financial damage but also mental pain. Because these consequences, which one of the most famous Serbian actors had to leave Serbia with his four children, are not an individual case and are not the citizens' fault. It's the state's fault, it's the People's Bank that lets this happen. For this reason, I ask you once again to accept the proposal to put these laws on the agenda, so that everyone together can protect these citizens. Of course, they are not the only ones at risk in Serbia. Pensioners are also at risk because of reduced pensions, workers due to reduced salaries, but this is the most vulnerable category of residents currently in Serbia, people who will be left homeless, people who will go bankrupt and a state who will lose quality young people who will have to leave this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26104	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 148 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26105	Thank you. Dear Members of the National Assembly, MPs, I will explain to you in the next few minutes the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, hoping that you will support this initiative and that we will include this bill in today's agenda. Namely, I suggested that Article 41 be changed. The Health Insurance Act, which refers to the examinations and treatment of diseases of the mouth and teeth. With current Article 41. The health insurance law is designed to provide insurance individuals with reviews and treatment of the diseases of mouth and tooth in the medical, polyclinic and stationary conditions, as described in the law, diseases of the mouth and teeth in children up to the age of 18 years of life, i.e. until the end of the prescribed secondary, or higher education, and at the latest 26 years of life, old people who are severely or mentally impaired in development, as well as those with severe congenital or acquired deformities of the face and jaws, examinations and treatment of mouth and tooth diseases, except for prosthetic care in women in relation to pregnancy and 12 months of postpartum, the indication of urgent dental care for adults, examinations and treatment of diseases of mouth and teeth, except for the protetic preplantation of the kidney, i.e.e. surgery on the heart, postpartuminal surgery and postmortem of the carnal disease, postmortem and the health care care of the health care system. This standardized health protection provided for in Article 41, restrictively according to a particular circle of the person and even more restrictively certain situations of the health condition of the insurance undertaking, shall not provide for the examination and treatment of the diseases of the mouth and teeth in the medical and clinical conditions for all categories of insurance undertakings. To show you this plastic, I'll give you some statistics. The Republic of Serbia has a population of 7,186,274, ranging from 1,427,000 to 18, and over 65,250,000. Between 18 and 65 years of age, there are 4,509,000 inhabitants. These people are able to work, and they're the ones who pay health insurance contributions. They're the only ones who don't have the right to treat their mouths and teeth, to fix their teeth. With this amendment of the law, if you support this initiative of mine, all insurance companies will have the right, which is secured through the Republic Fund, to treat their mouths and teeth. You'll normally wonder about finance. There is a surplus of money on the appraisal of dental health care in the Republic Health Insurance Fund of 365,000 dinars, whose redistribution will provide the necessary material for the treatment of mouth and teeth, i.e. for repair, and as far as the staff is concerned, the absolutely current capacities contracted by the Republic Health Insurance Fund meet the needs of this amendment to the law. And I hope you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26106	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find your proposal not accepted. National MP Nenad Nikolic, based on Article 92(2), Articles 157, 2nd and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on Encouragement and Investment Protection, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on Economic, Scientific and Technical Co-operation, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on Cooperation in Tourism and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in the field of tourism. Does the MP Nenad Nikolic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 17 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, voted 17 of the 161 MPs present, I find that the National Assembly, by majority of votes, established the agenda of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases; 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges elected for the first time in a judicial capacity; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on the promotion and protection of investments; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Armenia on Economic, Scientific and Technical Cooperation; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Georgia on cooperation in the field of tourism; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the field of tourism. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. First item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Populations against Infectious Diseases You received a bill submitted by a group of 234 MPs. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. If you want, I'll wait for the MPs to pay attention to the start of this session. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs and in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does a representative of the promoter, the MP of the people, Professor Milet Poscurica, want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26107	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you, as well as the heads of Parliament's groups for the joint agreement that I be appointed to be the man who will speak today about the law, about the changes that were first agreed on by our Health Committee, and then as such delegated to the appropriate parliamentary groups. I would like to immediately welcome this unity that is not common in parliament, a unity that is very important to bring and establish common, unique, law-mandated, policy on the importance of health protection of the population from infectious diseases. This whole campaign, this whole story and the need for the law to change in the way we have foreseen changes in two points of the current Law on the Protection of Population against Infectious Diseases, has been launched or moved months ago, and in the past and in this year, and thanks to the work of the Health Committee, which we have otherwise established in the constitution of this call, in which the minister, but also the other institutions of importance refer to their work, about their events in the field of health, we have received valid information about that in the health policy of vaccination, prevention, immuno-profile, start to appear and arise certain problems in terms of reduced response of the population to vaccination. Then, on social networks, certain groups that acted so as to recommend other parents not to vaccinate their children, speaking of any possible links between the vaccination process and any other potentially serious illnesses that could be associated with it, and doing so without any rational decision, without rational evidence, without any resistance. Recognizing such a problem, we called for several of our sessions all those who were referenced to give their opinion on it. These were representatives of the National Institute of Health, Batuta Director, Professional Associations, Medical Chamber, the appropriate section of the Serbian Medical Society, the President of the Commission for Infectious Diseases, the Health Council, Parents' Associations, the chair of the paediatric sections, etc. So, everyone who wanted to, we even wanted to invite those who declared themselves and their less or more networked channels act like an antivacinal lobby to invite them, but there was no clear way and a clear address and a clear localisation of such institutions that did not legally and as individuals legitimately legitimately that they might be invited to these meetings. Appreciating the seriousness of this event and such developments in our environment, the Ministry of Health has decided that each month it gives us reports of the outcome and response to vaccination. We noticed that already after our first meeting in January of the month, the next percentage of those who responded to the vaccination began to grow slightly. Over time, we were getting more and more information about how this number was improving, but at the same time we were learning from retrospective information that certain vaccinations were refused especially so-called parents in front of their children. The drone vaccine of the MMR, and it reached Serbia one, an enviable critical level above which we are losing so-called. the feeling of frontal security or the misery of protection that the World Health Organization has recommended as such. The fact that they have called for verified data, that if children receive such a vaccine may suffer from some serious neurological disorders, it may lead to classical problems at local health care level in places where the vaccination process is not respected and refused. Who was in trouble? They were pediatricians. In the conflict and encounter with parents, many parents asked the pediatricians to elaborate, to constantly and continuously prove to them that there was no harm to the application of the vaccine, which people did, but the parents of children or guardians often used their rights to exclude it, since it was interpreted by the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights as some sort of intervention measure, that small injection, that little sting as an intervention measure, and by referring to that legal provision, parents vetoed their child’s vaccination and did him a poor favor. Some doctors came at the risk of actually writing, that the contraindications were gone, the child should be vaccinated, but they were prevented by that law. That's where we kind of came up with the idea that maybe there's some kind of conflict between the two laws. There isn't, there's really cohesion. We have been given the Ministry's opinion that cohesion has nothing to do with these two laws of real and real, but it must be seen what is the direct and essential interest of that child in providing health care. It's got to be seen by a doctor, by a team carrying out the vaccination, but they have to watch parents as well. There are legal qualifications that oblige parents to engage in non-compliance with their own child or guardians at risk of categorization under another law called child neglect. So he had to have some authority to finally appear, to allow doctors on the ground, to practically do their job, to respect the medical profession, and to prevent parents’ self-will to avoid reading something, somewhere on a social network, or at some convention, that it would be harmful for his child to avoid vaccination. It is also an incorrect theory that “if all the children are vaccinated, I will not. ” That’s what parents used to say, so “it doesn’t matter he will be protected, because other children are vaccinated whose parents are more responsible and neat. ” That's not true either. We're falling under that threshold. Secondly, there are those children who were not vaccinated at a given time, because they had a current contraindication of colds, flu, colds, etc., and then the third problem, the third type, the children should be enrolled in kindergartens, preschools. If they don't have a filled registration card by law, they can't do it. Then there is a whole series of problems that we have really identified on the Health Committee and uniquely, at all these meetings supported by great authority, people who speak the last word of it, we have decided to propose to the Ministry to move forward with the amendment of the law. We received an answer from the Ministry that they are working to amend the Law on Protection against Infectious Diseases, and that such intervention may come later or that they are not going with intervention now, but that it will come at the time when the law is changed. But we on the Committee together with the Minister, even with the Minister of Education, decided to make that part easier until the law comes into force, with this brief amendment concerning the amendments of two members. Thus is the birth of the paper in front of you today, in which are amendments to the Law in Article 3 and amendments to the Law in Article 15 on protection against infectious diseases. What did we do? What are these fundamental changes? The Law on Patients' Rights has not been touched, parents' associations and other associations on the Committee have asked that it does not go without a public debate, although we can always ask – and what is an intervention procedure, a subcutaneous injection, as the vaccine is given, we have all passed it. Who asked us if it would hurt? To take back the story, the parent protects his child, protects him from the Kobajagi vaccine, and gives consent not to vaccinate, and the child can then articulate and that the little child, a child, for a year, two would never agree to the vaccine, the child has no sense of responsibility, it does not know what it means, and it would always refuse. So the parent is dishonest to him. He knows that a child would never accept that vaccine, and he protects it for a whole other reason, because somewhere someone once said it might cause this or that disorder. So we wanted to simply get in the way of this in the most obvious way, to cut it off, to allow doctors on the ground to work in the interest of the profession. For this reason, two amendments have been made to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, where in Article 3. Immunisation, therefore, we have declared the vaccination process a non-therapy measure, but immunisation is a preventive measure, and thus we have done or made a formal deviation to what was required in the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights where an intervention method, consent of parents or guardians might be required. When we did so, we formally removed the problem and now more, as we have put in the changes in the new position of Article 25. The law on protection against infectious diseases, that immunisation is not required, the written consent of the person to whom the child is being committed, that is to say, the guardian, the parent, and that is how we put away the barrier that the doctor, the pediatrician, the team that performs immunisation on the ground will now have in contact with the parents, or even the parent may sometimes be able to invent the reasons that his child is allergic to this or that if he fails to convince the doctor to try otherwise. But the maneuvering space is simply banned "I do not want my child to be vaccinated, because it will have such a complication" now eliminated. The doctor is now deciding whether or not the child can receive the vaccine based on a review of the vaccine, which keeps records. If he can't, and there will be such conditions that he can't, then that opportunity is characterized as a temporary circumstance, so temporary contraindication until some cold, rash fever or any other condition or permanent after consultation with a certain expert team. But behind that is a doctor, not a parent who was convinced by someone on a social network somewhere. I'm not going to talk here, because this is not a professional symposium, there is a very large number of evidence that retrograde testing, in retrograde studies, even now, is proven in a prospectus that millions of vaccines have been made there is no evidence that the administration of some vaccine in an unequivocal statistical correlation with the incidence of severe side effects. Even from the Agency for Medicinal Products where our guests came from, they delivered data that within just a few years of tracking, the last three years of tracking, so on. ‘alerts’, information on unwanted facts, that the AE ‘adversives’ reported mainly, are common side effects. So neither “sirius” serious, but ordinary side effects, which is temperature, local redness, pain. Nothing in three years, and the number of such applications, despite the fact that such a campaign is developing right then, is to be precise 195, 125 and 102 in 2014. So 2014, 2013 and 2012. World-wide large-scale research included 14 million subjects, did not determine the occurrence of debilization diseases and the association of individual vaccines. Today, in the world, it is tending to go on more and more polyvalent vaccines, one stab, one application to give the child more of the antigenes offered to create immunity, etc. Montenegro even has a six-valent vaccine. We may have it, but it's already on track, too, if the Fund will be able to track everything to pay and get enough vaccines. In the world, it is a trend to be either mandatory or recommended. The European countries are divided in this regard. It's not all obligations, and in the surrounding countries it's mandatory, as it is with us. Somewhere even for 11, and with us for 10 diseases, somewhere in two, three, four, but the level of recommended vaccinations in the world today is talking about the response and effectiveness of vaccination 93, 95, 97. So, she's matured awareness of Western civilizations that you don't have to order to vaccinate, and unfortunately we're back in a time where we're fully aware that vaccination is such a preventive measure that you need to yearn for, when it might happen to develop for other diseases, so that she can protect us from the evil that is potentially followed by mass non-infectious diseases, and we're doing it because of some "wise people", some desperate and powerful people who are looking for subjugated, probably some other lobbies, in other interests that sacrifice their own children and do not encourage vaccination, but they are coerceiving and moving in the wrong way to think about other children's parents. That is why good parliamentary support, a broad parliamentary support, is a parliamentary one-minded one, to repeat this, which will show as another obstacle to this growing misinformation that can be spread through social networks or other channels. We simply need to stand on behalf of a clear state program that has no political color, and the program is such that we protect youth and children from serious diseases, for which Nobel Prizes were received when vaccines were invented, which meant the salvation of humanity which might have been decimated that such vaccine measures were once disputed. Today the vaccine is done by genetic engineering. Today it's perfect, safe, much safer than the way it used to be with us. 115 years ago, we also had the first vaccine in Serbia, "Torak" is a powerful institution that can make vaccines and there has never been a problem. These are very high-quality vaccines, and what's being introduced are vaccines licensed. They've all passed previous clinical studies. They all have to get the exact path of checking different levels of accreditation until they come into use at all. Serbia doesn't get any scissors, nothing that's a secondary market, nothing that someone else in the world doesn't use. So it took and was useful to do this story all together and all together and show a common goal to stop the anti-vaccinal campaign and help parents or children confused parents, perhaps better tell those who have been shown up in television shows or some have managed to do it, but it has been stopped, to break through the SLD accreditation programme to speak somewhere, but it is a paramedical lecture, you can make it in the square, you can go out to Slavia and talk to whatever you want, but the official medical position is quite clear and all our health institutions, all relevant professional associations, the Health Committee, and finally Parliament, I expect a single vote and adoption of the proposal unanimously, to send a strong message that will, above all, support the health of children and doctors on the ground, that they can, on their own conscience, make decisions and that only medical indications or counterindications will be protected by our health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26108	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I have called for today's session to be attended by Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health and Dr Berislav Vekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. In accordance with Art. 272. and 273. I ask you to accept that, because of the importance of the topic, Mr Lončar is briefly addressed and the Minister of Health, because it is in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, for the purpose of providing professional explanations to Parliament and for the adoption of this bill. Here you go, Minister, if you'd like. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26109	I need an explanation. We've got a rather unusual situation. He has always sent a representative of the government to parliament with his signature as Prime Minister, which is not the case now. We now have the Secretary General's signature. You have called on a member of 273 who says - to give professional and other notices at a session of the Committee of the National Assembly, meaning at a session of the Committee of the National Assembly, the government can determine its trustees. I don't mind the minister's presence, just to explain to me what the procedure is now, why the procedure is a little bit more unusual today than it is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26110	I only asked for permission from MPs, if they wanted to, if they thought it useful for the health minister to address it the same way and say whether this bill is acceptable to the government, because by passing the law... . If the MPs don't want it, the minister will be there in parliament. He has the right to attend and hear the discussion on the bill. It's your call. I don't even want to put it to a vote. I've been informed that the general heads of Parliament's clubs agree with such a proposal. How do you want it? I would like it to be a consensus because I do not think it is a question that could cause controversy for such an important topic that MPs have signed, regardless of political commitment. Can I have your consent? The minister will not oppose our wishes, either positive or negative. Here you go, Minister. Please speak briefly to the Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26111	I thank the esteemed chairman. Dear Members, first of all, I want to thank you for recognising a problem that is not great at the moment, but it could escalate and be even greater and that we are unique in this position. I think it's a strong message to be sent to everyone, to the general public of Serbia, especially to parents who are watching this with great attention. I just want a few facts to say, that is, the most official data, which is that in the EU, the percentage of vaccines in the European region is over 96%. Unfortunately, this data is not like that for Serbia, nor is it similar. So that percentage goes from about 89% to some vaccines, to some vaccines and lower. We'll hear all kinds of opinions that it's mandatory somewhere, somewhere it's not mandatory. That's right. In some countries, such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, it must be me, as it will be with us. We have countries where there is a recommendation, but to point out that countries where there is a recommendation the percentage of vaccines is over 97%. I want to stress that more developed countries have mechanisms, and these mechanisms are if you don't vaccinate a child, if it's a recommendation, if you don't vaccinate a child, you can't put that child in kindergarten, in school, and in case the child gets sick, the insurance costs aren't borne, but you yourself have to pay for that treatment. I would like to remind you that for three months now, the Committee on Health and Family has been in session, where we have called on all those interested in this topic and all those who have other opinions to come with facts, with anything, with questions and to address our professional people who have been dealing with it and who have come with the latest data every month and are ready to answer all the questions. I'll tell you no one showed up, no one came here to ask a question or anything. I think it's the only place to talk about it, which is the Assembly Committee on Health and Family. Once again, I remind you that for three months now, he has been sitting in a row only with this subject and that what we are doing today is the result of unanimous support from the Committee on Health and Family and all the MPs sitting here. Once again, I thank you for your understanding that this is a matter that has nothing to do with politics. This is about our children's health and the health of the nation. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26112	Thank you. The first speaker is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26113	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, will most of these days be spoken by my fellow doctors. I'm not an expert doctor, I'm an engineer, but first of all, I'm a parent, and as a parent, I've had the opportunity to face this problem very soon, first of all, inoculation of children. What I would have as a question and fellow professor. As a proposer, and you, respected ministers, is that when we talk about percentages of children who received vaccines, we get a certain report from the ministry that these percentages are among the smallest in Europe, we talk about Hepatitis B where that percentage is 78.8%, we talk about that so-called. The MMR vaccine, a drone, with a percentage of 85.8%, and the minister has already said that, under the name of the country, it is a percentage of between 95% and 97% in normal countries. Now we're all asking a question – why is that? One additional question that I ask, first of all as a parent, and then as a folk MP, is that we all witness a negative campaign that is led against vaccination on social networks, and what is simply an amazing information to me, respected ministers, is that on certain blogs there are doctors, doctors who sign the name and title and who say that children don't need to be vaccinated, because this MMR vaccine causes autoses and that they simply lead to parental error and that none of these doctors, doctors who sign the name, last name and title bear any responsibility, and then all of us here together as MPs ask ourselves – why do we have this reduced percentage and why do we have a problem that, I say, normal countries don't have? I ask you most kindly that even when this law is passed, and it will be passed, because 234 fellow Members of Parliament have signed this law and should be adopted, but it is crucial that these things are no longer repeated, because we are all witnesses of what it was like when we were in the former Yugoslavia, which we all considered to be a serious state and if you have trust, and this is primarily a matter of trust with the state institutions, there was absolutely no question of vaccination in any way. We've all been to school, the headmaster comes with a nurse, she takes that black bag and we all get in line, vaccination starts, and none of it's made any drama, nor has any political question been made about it like it's done today. Because of me as a parent and all these other things, they can't just be questioned anymore. It is therefore important that this law be adopted as soon as possible and the NS parliamentary group will, of course, support the adoption of such a law in the voting day. For the sake of the citizens, I'd like to remind you, to tell us clearly what criminal provisions will be, clear criminal provisions for those parents who will again, despite the adoption of this law, and unfortunately they will be, who will not allow their children to be vaccinated. In this bill, we read that there are 50,000 dinars in the fine, that there is no way that a child will not be able to enroll in kindergarten, kindergarten and preschool, but I think that it may not be enough punishment, but that it should consider that these penalties become even more harsh. It's also a little dilemma that I found in this bill, but at this point it's not that important, about the responsibility of the pediatricians themselves, who, by their actions or by no means, lead their parents astray to ask themselves if there's anything or no point. Dear Ministers and fellow People's MPs, I don't want to owe it around this, because it is quite clear that this bill should be adopted as soon as possible, but it is crucial that these dilemmas simply disappear from Serbia's public life, and on the other hand that those who spread the story of vaccine problems, whether in percentages I don't know how many children remain in trouble, whether how many have received autism after vaccination, and not to mention the number of children who have not been vaccinated with autism. These are some things that we all need to pay attention to together, and those who spread this kind of panic and this kind of negative propaganda must be properly punished. I thank you again. We will uphold this law in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26114	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26115	Thank you. Dear Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that immunisation is indeed the most effective, economical and safest way to prevent and spread infectious diseases. Immunization has saved humanity, and that is why it is simply necessary, and that explains the need for it. Ensuring available and safe vaccines for all is the primary task of the state. It is extremely important that every child is provided with safety and the right to health, while the task of the doctor's profession is to explain to parents, to indicate that vaccination can prevent an epidemic of severe infectious diseases. As a member of the Committee on Health and Family during these discussions, that is, a session of the Committee, which was discussed by Mr. Minister, I have presented my personal experience and I will now share it with you. As a young mother, I can say that in today’s world, young parents are mostly informed from the Internet and then exchange information with each other and unfortunately because of the overloading of pediatricians is mostly the last station, or at least they are informed by pediatricians themselves. Parents are usually not adequately informed about where vaccines can be provided, how they should be transmitted, etc. I was talking about having had a personal experience, that I had to buy a petulant vaccine for my child in another municipality about a year ago and pass that vaccine on, that is, to ensure so-called. It's a cold chain, so I can take it to the fridge. Unfortunately, I have heard of the experiences of parents who obtained vaccines at an extremely high level of effort and at extremely high prices, and have not been informed of the so-called. The cold chain and how they should be transmitted, to be brought from the pharmacy where they were bought to the doctor, and therefore they were unusable. In addition to the need to provide parents with really adequate information necessary to provide them with this information, it is extremely important to provide the needs of the amount of all vaccines. Therefore, our MP group particularly welcomes the recent changes and additions of the Immunisation and Method of Medicinal Products Regulation, which has allowed for all children who have started immunisation with a petulant vaccine to complete immunisation for the same treatment of all at vaccination. Immunisation is a process that is constantly improving and the Republic of Serbia has provided this necessary level of vaccination, even in situations where there has been insufficient amounts for all, so for many years, as we have heard, the level of vaccines, i.e. that percentage was between 90% and 95%. Unfortunately, over the past few months, and even years, we can see that the negative effect of the anti-vacation campaign has led to this percentage decrease in some vaccines even up to 15%. The reason for the minor coverage of children is the vaccination problem already mentioned, or insufficient amounts of vaccines, and the fact that some parents unfortunately believe unverified information from non-structive persons and are afraid and therefore include an MMR vaccine lower, which is why, after four decades in Serbia, morbils appeared several months ago, precisely among the non-vaccinated population. A mandatory immuneisation system exists in countries in the region, such as Hungary, Croatia and Slovenia, and in other countries mentioned in the public, such as Great Britain, Denmark, Estonia, Lithuania, Germany, Norway, Finland, Sweden, etc., there is no mandatory, vaccination exists, but on the other hand it is covered by a vaccine in these countries between 90 and 95%, which means that whatever it is not mandatory, there is a very clear public awareness of the importance of immunisation. I hope we get to that, too. I would mention the example of Croatia, where it was precisely because of the antivaccinal pressures that raised this issue before the Constitutional Court of Croatia, which decided that the child's right to vaccination is above the right of parents to prevent vaccination, just to protect the child. So, according to the UN Convention, the child has the right to health and the social community to be protected from the epidemic. I would also highlight the problems that arise when a child is in a collective. It is widely known that many parents are not able to cope otherwise, or some are careless, leaving sick children in the collective, and therefore healthy children are very often exposed to epidemics, and they get sick. That's why many children can't even receive vaccines and parents who want to vaccinate their child can't observe the vaccination calendar. It happens, we had a few weeks ago, I could say a month or two, the strongest epidemic of flu, when certain doctors happened for a couple of days because of overload, and even a week or two didn't even work with healthy children, but only with sick children. So, during that period, healthy children were unable to receive vaccines again. So it's extremely important that we also think about not allowing unvaccinated children to be brought into the collective, in fact, they're endangering other children, especially those who aren't vaccinated not because their parents didn't want to, but simply their immune system is so weak that they're late for vaccination. But to return to the concrete changes and additions to the laws that lie ahead and why they came. It is clear that there have been doubts about the interpretation of two laws, the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases and a certain member of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. In the field, there was a very serious problem in cases where parents refused to vaccinate children despite the appeal of pediatricians and neonatologists to do so. In practice, it seems that in these situations the sanitary inspector goes out on the field and talks to his parents. If they continue to refuse vaccination, there is a misappropriation and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26116	Excuse me, just one second to greet the guests, I'll count your time. Let me welcome, on your behalf and on your behalf, the participants of the Sixth Meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Southeast European Parliament, which is being held in the National Assembly and which are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Gallery. Please welcome our guests. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26117	Thank you. So it happens that parents in this case are referring to the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and Threats, if I may put it that way. As a result, the management of health care institutions is largely withdrawn from fear. Therefore, significant harmonisation of the legislation and the pediatricians themselves were expecting protection from both the parent board and the National Assembly and the state in order to resolve these dilemmas. Doctors in these cases are actually doing their job safely. They just want to comply with the mandatory vaccination law. However, parents have been going on to initiate the disciplinary responsibility procedure before the Court of Honors of the Serbian Medical Chamber for professional duty as a member of the Chamber. I would also warn of the practice of certain members of the aforementioned Antivaccinal group that sued pediatricians, epidemiologists, and it was high time for us to act. The SVM parliamentary group believes that there is no single reason why a healthy child should not be vaccinated, because it is both children's health and the whole nation's health, so we support the proposal that vaccination really be mandatory and that it is conducted without the signature and request of parental consent. We really advocate that this issue should be properly regulated. But, on the other hand, when we look at the existing law before the changes and the additions, we see that the collapsion doesn't exist, there's just been a bit of a misunderstanding in application. However, in any case, it is good that these changes and additions stress that mandatory vaccination does not require written consent of the patient, i.e. in this case the legal representatives of the parent child, that the doctor is the one who performs immunisation, etc. It is extremely important to define what immunization is, that it is preventive, not diagnostic, therapeutic, medical, for which consent is actually necessary under the said Law on Patients' Rights. In any case, we are pleased to hear that the brand new Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases, which the Ministry of Health is working on, will enter the assembly procedure in the next few months, and we will no later than autumn to define the other issues in this field. Just to mention another member who can be an argument why we are unanimous on this issue of the Patients' Rights Act, which is that the patient has the right to freely decide on everything about his life and health, except in cases where it directly endangers the lives and health of other persons, and that may be the case when someone is not vaccinated. To conclude, resolving the issues of legal regulation between these two laws should indeed be our goal. We signed and supported this proposal and in the voting day we will vote for it. It is a significant clear application in practice, and all of which, of course, is in the interest of our youngest population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26118	Thank you. The word has Dr Ljiljana Kosorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26119	Thank you. The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vekic, fellow MPs, the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases is one of the most important system laws in the field of health care. It is the obligation of the state to care for each individual, as well as for all citizens, and to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases in that sense and they are made up of amendments, as we have heard, only two members. In Article 3, where it is clearly defined, although I must point out that it has already been known and the fact is that immunisation is a preventive measure of the protection of the face against infectious diseases. So it's not diagnostic and it's not therapeutic, and it comes from this member and the addition of Article 25, that mandatory vaccination does not require written consent from parents, guardians or legal representative of the child. Immunisation is performed by a doctor of medicine, who, after an examination of any person in need of immunisation, can determine how temporary counter-indication, i.e. to propose to the expert team a permanent contra-indication for the vaccine and immunisation is kept by the prescribed records. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia will unreservedly support these amendments to the law and we rejoice that it is the unique position of all MPs and all MPs. So 234 MPs are also in the signing of this bill, and the message is clear – the health status of our children's nation is above politics. We must not be hostages or prejudice or ignorance. The study gave an opinion, as we heard from the rapporteurs at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, where representatives of the health ministry led by the health ministry, representatives of the Institute of Public Health "Batut", "Torlak", the Lek Chamber of Pharmacy, the Serbian Doctor's Society, eminent pediatricians, infectologists, epidemiologists. The involvement of all institutions also means the defence of scientific principles. The message is clear - the state is behind changes and additions to this law, in order to achieve the highest possible degree of protection of the population from infectious diseases, and in order to prevent, combat and eradicate infectious diseases. The state is behind the immunization process. Immunisation is one of the greatest achievements of the 20th century, which, with the discovery of antibiotics and the provision of hygienic proper drinking water, led to a significant reduction in disease and death from various infectious diseases. According to the World Health Organization, at the beginning of the 20th century infectious diseases were the leading cause of death, between 30% and 60%, and at the end of the 20th and early 21st centuries, they were reduced to a figure of between 3 and 5%. The percentage of children under five years of age, in the total number of deaths, was reduced from 30.4% to 1.4%. Vaccination saves over three million lives of children worldwide each year. I have to remind myself that the infectious diseases that have caused great damage to mankind over the centuries have wiped out the entire population, the number of victims has been much greater than in the wars, and after that, the course of history has been changed, and they have been recorded as the greatest threat to humanity. Due to vaccination, some infectious diseases have completely disappeared, as great goddesses, and others, for which there is a vaccine, hardly ever occur. When it comes to advanced data, I can't help but remind, first of all, and as a pediatrician, of the calendar of mandatory immunization and the mention of some diseases and what a threat they may be to us. Tuberculosis, a white death, which follows humanity backwards, according to data, has been reported for six millenniums, that even during the Stone Age trials it was discovered that tuberculosis was present. Although the last mass epidemics were recorded in the early 20th century, by the introduction of the vaccine, the first vaccine on June 21st, 1921, was vaccinated by an oral infant whose tuberculosis mother died immediately after birth. As the child remained alive and normally developed, a wide range of BCG vaccines began in the world. In the early 1980s, tuberculosis was announced to be eradicated by 2010, but it did not come true. Tuberculosis returns to a large door after tens of years, and currently, according to data, it infects about one third of the world's population. It should also be said that pertusis is a great cough, which leads to respiratory failure, brain damage, with permanent consequences and epilepsy. Diphtheria, a severe infectious disease characterized by thick joints in the throat that can lead to asphyxiation and severe nerve and heart damage. Due to immunisation, diphtheria does not occur in a large number of countries, but it is registered in countries that have discontinued immunisation or misimplemented it, countries of the former Soviet Union, some countries of sub-Saharan Africa, South America, India. Hepatitis B, currently the fastest disease in the world, the most widespread, the number of patients is estimated at more than 350 million, and the number of deaths over 600,000 a year. The disease is chronic, and often leads to liver cancer, and vaccination prevents the formation of two diseases, both viral hepatitis and liver cancer. I will also mention polymyelitis, polio, and then morbils, with over 45 million patients in 2000 and over 800,000 deaths. The global goal was also to reduce mortality by 95%, compared to 2000, by 2015, which can be achieved by comprehensive vaccination, and we now have this situation where we have morbils showing up in Serbia and even in the course of last year, even these. Tetanus, an evil cramp, rubella, or rubella, even the most minor disease, leading to the death of a child with severe malformations in pregnancy. Therefore, the prevention of congenital rubella is also one of the global objectives of the World Health Organization. I could still point out, but I won't because of the weather, all the diseases that are subject to the vaccine calendar. How to prevent these severe illnesses? Vaccino-profilax is the most powerful measure in the prophylaxis. Mass immunisations are the best way to combat and reduce disease, elimination and eradication. The rate of effectiveness of vaccination should be 95 to 97%. There's no room for antivacinal lobbies. Their argument that in some countries vaccination is not mandatory cannot be accepted. We don't want to compare ourselves to the countries of South America, sub-Saharan Africa, some third-world countries. True, in some countries, it is not mandatory to vaccination in Europe. It is not mandatory, in terms of legislation, but its citizens have a highly developed awareness of the protection of their health, the protection of the health of the nearest, and also of the nations and in these countries is covered by the vaccine over 95% and the legislation is not necessary. Therefore, the SPO also advocates from the very beginning that we are in the company of these organised societies, these regulated states, the EU states, and in the day of voting we will unreservedly support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26120	Thank you. The word is from the MP Srdjan Kružević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26121	The Honorable Presidents and the Presidency, the Honorable Minister, Mr Secretary and dear fellow MPs, JS is a party that primarily advocates the fight to create new jobs, social justice, and all in order to fight the white plague. It's perfectly normal for us to give our opinion on a bill like this. At the very beginning, I would like to say that JS will vote in the voting day for this proposal. Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the struggle you had in the past months with some quasi-experts, who, mostly through social networks, have tried to draw attention to themselves and to engage in a campaign that can't do any good, and that can't do well, it also confirms this number of signatures as an initiative for the introduction of this law of the People's MPs and I believe a decision on the application of the law that will be made by consensus. We in Serbia have a situation to deal with things we shouldn't be dealing with 50 or more years ago, we're talking about this topic today for a reason that is famous somewhere, and it's not. I will try not as a politician of general practice, but as a man who has a political party to which he belongs and whose party has views, I will try to explain these views in the defense of this law. In Serbia, we have a situation that is considered successful when 85% of children are vaccinated. Unfortunately, in some parts of our country this percentage is far less. We'd be happy, of course, if that percentage was over 95%. The introduction of this law must allow for a high degree of immunisation of citizens, of course, from infectious diseases. Parliament has to send a message today, as well as tomorrow in voting day, not a professional message, but a message to citizens that the decision to protect and vaccinate children is indeed correct. We have a call for these lobbyist groups, which are mostly, again, on social networks, because they can only get through with their ideas, calling for 18 European countries to have no mandatory vaccination. From the presentation of my predecessors, we certainly heard that in those countries where there is no vaccine obligation, over 90% and 95% were vaccinated. One of the counter arguments that has been forced by a group of people who advocate the elimination of vaccination is autism. I will refer to some professional studies of highly developed world countries that have dealt with this problem very systematically. What I'm saying is that in Denmark, in a study of 537,303 children, autism in vaccination and non-vaccination is close. In Japan in 1993, under the pressure of parents, vaccination was discontinued, but they did, of course, study to 300,000 children, which showed that the number of autistic children grew the same in vaccinated and unvaccinated children. Now, what I want to give as an example, and you won't mind me going back to the ancient past, is this lobbying of those groups trying to get Serbia back in the early years of the last century, so I'm going to say that from 1918 to 1920, the pandemic of the Spanish flu infected more than 500 million people, and it took over 100 million lives. We're talking to the public that little goddesses aren't dangerous. These little goddesses kill 150,000 children a year or 400 a day or 16 children an hour. From 2000 to 2011, the number of people vaccinated fell from 850,000 to 350,000. In the unimmunised part of the world, the newborn tetanus takes about 300,000 lives a year, and studies have also shown that the tetanus vaccine is actually successful and effective in over 90% of cases. In 1921, the U.S. diphtheria had 206,000 patients with 15,500 fatalities. Since the introduction of vaccination against the same diphtheria by 2001, only two cases of disease have been recorded in America. Therefore, there are too many things that suggest that vaccination can bring nothing bad. It is certainly the most effective form of treatment, and I am surprised that all those who had the need to fight vaccination did not show citizens, parents, what the infectious disease that we are being vaccinated can do to their child, how this disease is being treated, how this disease spreads, and how this disease can quickly take away children's life. Therefore, on behalf of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, I appeal to all parents, regardless of whether they will bear criminal or other responsibility for non-vaccination, I urge them to focus on the professional public, to read or hear the opinions of high-level, eminent experts from Serbia and the world and, of course, make a positive decision on the vaccination of their children, because lobbyes that are being created and each other don't care about human and children's lives. Therefore, the view of the Single Serbia is very clear. In the voting day, we will support the mandatory vaccination law and I want to say that I am proud of Parliament for doing so unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26122	I thank Mr. Srdjan Kružević. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the Honorable Professor Lekic, Professor Poscurica, has very comprehensively explained the bill's amendment, all that is to pass this law, I've been thinking at some point not to answer the question, is there anything to add? This is a purely medical topic, very important for the health of Serbian citizens, especially our youngest populations, but because of the anti-vacation campaign that is in the media, the public alarm, we need here, as my predecessors said. fellow MPs who spoke before me, we should send a strong message that we support the amendment of this law, a strong message that vaccination is mandatory, except in cases like Professor Poscurica said when pediatricians, due to contraindications, release the child from vaccination. Therefore, the information presented by the esteemed minister, that in the world the average of vaccination, the percentage of vaccinations between 95 and 97%, those three to five percent are the youngest patients who have been released from vaccination due to some of the contraindications that I am now not bothering this set. It is very important to vaccinate children and it is very important that all citizens of Serbia understand this and it is very important, and I will appeal to the minister, that the campaign that will be conducted through health institutions, especially primary healthcare institutions, be at an envious level, because anti-vacation campaigns were and were being. It's something that we can't prevent, but by working in the office, in counselling centres, we can suppress these negative phenomena and these misinformations that can cause great damage to the health of our people, and indirectly the budget of the Ministry of Health and the entire state, if that's what you're looking at. What I would like to do to our citizens who are looking at today's transmission to draw attention, that vaccination is mandatory against tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, large cough, polio, small goddesses, rubellas, mumps, hepatitis B virus, hemophilus, influenza type B. What is one of the basic sentences of all those who fight against vaccination and who have something against it is that this maltene has been eradicated and that there is no need for vaccination. You're wrong. One example I found by listing literature that in Switzerland recently there was a small mini epidemic of little goddesses because in one of the cantons the Swiss parents realized that they had come to the belief that there was no need to be vaccinated because it was eradicated in Switzerland. It reached critical mass, many vaccinated children, and they got one mini epidemic of little goddesses. That's what happened in Serbia. That's what happened in Nis. As a result, I absolutely support the ministry's insistence to regulate itself and to severely sanction itself, and this depends now on the legislator, those parents who do not want to vaccinate their child beyond justified medical reasons. In addition to jeopardizing the health of their children, they also endanger the health of those children in that population of three to five percent unvaccinated children for medical reasons. No one has the right to endanger these children, a potential infection and infection by those children who do not want to, whose parents do not want to be vaccinated, and they do not have the ability to protect themselves because of some of the medical reasons. Once again, in order not to take up time, MP Boris Tadic, SDS, the ZZS and Green Serbia will support this proposal, amending the law in the voting day. I want you to succeed in your intention and in Serbia the percentage of vaccination will be between 95% and 97%, as anywhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26124	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26125	Dear Vice-President, Minister Loncar, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, I am pleased that we are on a joint task today, which we will all support in the day of voting the amendments to the law, in a people called the Vaccination Act. It is simple that LSV has supported without thinking and will continue to support it, only to ask the question of colleagues to Poscurica, or perhaps to you ministers, I do not have enough clarification of this criminal policy in these changes. You talked about countries in the EU punishing those parents who don't vaccinate their children, that they're not allowed to go to kindergarten and so on. I just think with us that those parents who don't vaccinate children get that fine from 20 to 50,000 dinars, they pay that fine, but those children remain unvaccinated. As far as I understand and how much I think that law, it changes and predicts. What to do with those kids, whether or not, but again, those parents are certainly willing to pay that punishment and they're simply not ready to vaccinate those children after those sentences. It may be too long for us to prosecute. The court only reacts on the basis of a solution to the Sanitary Inspector's violation. We know how we owe it all, it can take years. I simply think that in the law, in these changes it was necessary to explain which criminal policy, how to shorten this criminal procedure and, simply, how to in some way really force these irresponsible parents to vaccinate their children. In Vojvodina, for example. There are very few of those sanitary inspectors. I think it's going to be very difficult to put it on some level of that discipline, so I say once again, LSV will support these amendments to the law. I think that the state, and especially the ministry, especially health doctors, health care professions, should talk to parents as much as possible, because parents come to a health care facility, to say health care, so whether or not to vaccinate a child. Simply, doctors may sometimes be unreachable, perhaps sometimes they don't know to explain why it's good, or they don't have time. I think that a very good campaign should be made within the Ministry of Health to break up these antivaccine lobbys, so that parents and society can show that we simply shouldn't go back to the last century when we barely, not just, and the whole civilization is coping with these infectious diseases. I think that because of that mistrust in the state, in vaccines, we know that various flu vaccines, etc., and retreated, and maybe people just feel some discomfort, don't even know what vaccines are. We know that people lately may be uneducated, simply not able to track everything, so I think that the Ministry of Health and the State simply needs to do one more education on what vaccines mean.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26126	Thank you. Since you asked the question, Mr. Zlatibor Loncar, Minister, would like to answer your question. Do you agree? (Yes) Here you go. Dr. Zlatibor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26127	I thank you, and I want to inform you that it has already been mentioned that we are planning to change the Law on Infectious Diseases in the fall, and I want to invite you all to join in a public debate and with suggestions. Until then, let's make one consensus, if we can, as we have today for this, because I think this is the thing where we have to agree with all of us on the same task and every proposal is welcome and this is just the first step. We've got to get out of here. As we've been doing this, to remind you, for three months we've been organizing this committee, we'll continue, that committee will continue to work on it every month, but one of the topics will be what you've been talking about, because we've entered a serious vacuum, where we have complaints about doctors. That's one of the reasons doctors acted like they did, because when they say professional opinion, when they say, they get a complaint about it. I'm not about breaking things over our knees, I'm about to talk about them, and I'm about to take the best examples of those who are ahead of us, who are similar to us. I really don't think that we can invent hot water here, or that we're going to figure out something right now that doesn't exist somewhere and it's already tried somewhere. It's just, if we're being reasonable, if we want to, if we have the same goal, if we have the same intention, let's look at it all. As others pass, as they pass when they change those laws, what is the experience. To look at these people who have a percentage of the vaccine of 97%. So when we have 97%, then we can say whatever it is, then it's already people's consciousness that you don't have to regulate it by law. You know? I call for this debate to be over by autumn and to find the best solution that will be most acceptable to all and especially to children, or to the health of our nation, because it is sad that we are talking about something that has long been solved and instead of moving forward, we are going back, for no reason at all, what some want. I just want to appeal that everyone has the right to express their opinion, I respect it, however, just don't abuse children. We don't know enough about it here, either, but let's not abuse kids, so kids wear some parolees, something. I don't think that's correct. It's okay for us to discuss, to work, but don't mix the kids, they just have to grow up, find out they're interested in it, so that's what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26128	I thank Mr. Lonchar for answering the question. And I thank the Members of Parliament and the heads of Parliament for allowing Mr. Lonchar to answer the question of Mrs. Olena Papuga. Thank you. The word has Dr Branko Djurovic. Here you go. I apologize to Mr. Djurovic, Dr. Milet Poscurica, the promoter, has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26129	Thank you. I'm sorry, buddy, I won't be talking for long, I was encouraged by the speech of the minister and your colleague, of course, the speech, because in the whole story, I don't know why, I missed mentioning the media. We've got a fight that's being fought by electronic media on the networks. It's a kind of media again, but our official, official, official electronic media, written, printed media is a crucial link that can only help us now when we legally regulate this to pray that they understand this, the seriousness of the situation, and to continue because just writing the media, the promotional writing about the need for vaccination, has helped us to make such shifts in the last three months since we, as such, saw it and brought it out on our Health Committee, and the Ministry started along with the competent institutions with more accurate information data, and we saw that things moved to the better. So, don't forget the role of the media, they're very important to us to promote the positive resistance that's going that way. Well, that's what I was going to add, and since we're going to have a meeting like that, that debate, but if the media don't, and they don't, it's a little bit of that. They'll stay in a circle of people who listen to it. We all know that and 99% of the population knows that, but it takes an adequate transfer, not a bomb, but that there is and that there is a constant existence until things are brought back to normal the way Westernised countries we strive to and do without any order or obligation. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26130	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. Please, the word is Dr Branko Djurovic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26131	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Health, Dr Loncaru, the Honorable Secretary of State, Professor Vekic, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People. Today we are discussing a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Peoples against Infectious Diseases. When we talk about this subject, we have two sides of the problem, or two straight problems. The first side of this issue today is inequality, as the two laws have been said many times during this debate. The first law is, a law on the protection of the population from infectious diseases, which in its Article 25 speaks of the need for mandatory vaccination against 10 infectious diseases. The protocol that goes with this law provides a detailed explanation of the vaccination obligation. The second law is the Law on the Rights of Patients, which in its Article 15. Paragraph 2 says – a patient, i.e. a parent or guardian, if we have a minor patient, has the right to refuse the proposed medicine from the medical profession if it is estimated that it could endanger his health. The other side of this problem is something that I thought was far behind us, that it's not appropriate to start the 21st century, that's to discuss the justification of vaccination and the justification of mandatory vaccination. Last year, on July 1st, I put a written form in front of my MP group the Minister of Health question, and at the request of a fellow student who is a neonatologist at the Gynaecological and Obstetrics Clinic "The People's Front", what happens practically when a parent or guardian refuses to receive a vaccine from his child? The answer of the Minister and the Ministry of Health was very fast, clear and precise – is sent to the field by the sanitary inspector of the Ministry of Health who is having a conversation with the parent or guardian and, if he does not give up then, the sanitary inspector has an obligation under the current law to write a misapplication. After that, I also asked the health ministry's sanitary inspection, how many of these misdemeanor reports were written during 2014. The data was exact. From the beginning of January 2014 to the beginning of December of that same year, 121 applications were made. I went further to see what the result of those reports was, but unfortunately, I couldn't get feedback as it was. This response is clear, precise and fast by the Ministry of Health and Minister, I forwarded to my colleague Dr Ljiljani Stanković, a neonatologist at the Gynaecological-acusher clinic "The People's Front". I must admit now that I've naively assumed, now it's clear, now we have in writing what we need to protect both our doctors and our profession and our profession, but unfortunately in practice we have a different result. We should say here that the legal segments of our hospitals in large percentages, i.e. legal segments in our health homes, do not want to make life worse for themselves, and in such situations they are more prone to parents or guardians and to conform to this other law, the Law on Patients' Rights. Unfortunately, as a result, we have a reduced range of vaccinated children, mostly those vaccinated against little goddesses or morbils. As a result of this reduced collective resistance of the nation to the morbils, we now have current data that covering vaccinated children is 85-87%. The minister mentioned here – it is ideal if we have this coverage of vaccinated children for a certain rash fever above 95%. Unfortunately, due to the decline of this percentage, we've had a few minor morbil epidemics in our country. This plenary session today shows the unity of profession and profession, and I have to show my satisfaction to the Ministry of Health, to the Minister of Health, who reacted quickly and adequately, so that at today's session we send a clear message to our colleagues and to the general public. As for this other side of the problem, the justification for vaccination, I'm even ashamed to talk here among you, but since this message is to the general public, I'd just like to point out some basic medical facts. Before the administration of the diphtheria vaccine, diphtheria mortality was 100%. After administration of the vaccine - zero. Before the introduction of the vaccine against haemophilia influenza, mortality was 99%, and now, with the introduction, we have practically minimal mortality. I'd like to apostrophe something. Namely, what is the antivaccinal lobby used on these vast Internet forums of ours? Often, when you read those Internet forums of theirs, they mention a verdict condemned by a lower court in Rome in 2012. What's this about? The parents of a boy named Valentino Boca sued the state in Rome because their child Boca had autism, sued the Italian state that the child had received autism from a vaccine against morbils, a famous MMR vaccine. In 2012, the lower court ruled in favour of the parents of the child. In February of this year, 2015, a senior appeals court in Bologna annulled the verdict. Why? Two circular mistakes have been made. The first mistake - who was the expert who said the vaccine was autism in the child concerned? The doctor's name is Dr. Masimo Montinari, who was in conflict of interest. He had certain preparations that he gave preventively to children who were not vaccinated, and he had alternative preparations for the treatment of autism. The lawyer who practically represented the parents of this boy is called Luka Bentaloro and he was a professional, practically, to take and make compensations by pharmaceutical houses that produced certain vaccines. Also, an expert medical and lawyer, this is the other side which has led to this verdict being annulled, have practically called for one cheating clinical study conducted by a British surgeon named Andrew Wakefield, who published one of his clinical studies with 12 patients where he was deceded – everyone got a famous vaccine of the MMR and everyone got autism. What happened? In the court dispute, the first of twelve children who allegedly had autism, three had no autism at all, five had psycho-physical problems before receiving an MMR vaccine against morbils, mostly. Next, the court dispute, at the trial, a fellow surgeon named Wakefield said – I diagnosed them based on what my parents told me, not on the examination. Then this court dispute, what did he show next? He showed that Wakefield received £400,000 from certain lawyers, which is about half a million on behalf of proving and presenting his work that the vaccine is causing autism. Why did the lawyers do that? Why did they give him the money? So they can practically pick up a fine from these companies that are vaccine producers. The third item, which caused the practical association, the British Association for Medicine and Surgery to lift his license and kick him out of his medical esnaf, the third item related to this colleague, was that he actually patented a vaccine against the morbils. Why am I saying this now? I'm saying this because that antivacinal lobby on its Internet presentations tells stories about these cases. No problem, we should talk, but then we should go from beginning to end. They also call for a study, published in Lancette. "Lancet" is the most prized British, or world medical journal, with a high, high impact factor, which in 1998 said and published a scientific paper, where it really links the vaccine against morbilism to autism. The antivaccinal lobby mentions it, that part of the story, but it doesn't mention the other part of the story that's simple. In 2010, the same in the World Rang magazine, Lancette, was withdrawn. Why? Well, again, the editor-in-chief of Lancette has found a conflict of interest for the main author of the 1998 work. In the early 1990s, during the collapse of the Soviet Union, the seroprophylaxis protocol and complete immunisation were disrupted in the Soviet Union. In the territory of the entire Soviet Union, the former was registered at a very short time interval of 150,000 patients with diphtheria. They weren't vaccinated. In 2000, 330,000 children died in Africa from morbils, little goddesses. A total of the world then died about half a million. After 13 years, ten times fewer children die in Africa in 2013. In total, 101,000 deaths in the world of morbils. What happened in 13 years? That mortality at 330,000 dropped to 33,000. The children have begun to be vaccinated. In 2013, the coverage of vaccinated children in Africa with this mortality was 39%. I repeat again what we said several times in the previous period, covering what we're trying to do, now in this case we need to have legal regulation, is that scope of vaccineation that is above 95%. True, there are countries that do not have binding legal regulations, but in all these countries the scope of vaccination is above 95%. The countries in our environment Croatia, Slovenia, have the obligation to vaccinate, so in this period, it is something that is necessary. Also, reading their Internet forums, antivaccinal, what did I notice? They are referred to some harmful substances within individual vaccines. We have as part of certain vaccines of so-called adjuvants, supporting substances that are necessary to be present for the activity or phenomenon of immunogenicisation to be greater. These are formaldehyde, gluteraldehid, aluminium, but at such low concentrations that are absolutely not harmful to the patient. They keep mentioning that the unity of living, so-called timerosal, is present in certain vaccines and that this compound of living is caused by autism. We don't have it in our vaccines. The most famous vaccine, we talked multiple times and here it was mentioned, pentaxin, no, absolutely not. Once again, it is a real pleasure to be here, to be all together in one of our directions, and that is something that is a national resource – the health of all of us, especially the health of this youngest population. I thank you for your attention and, of course, the SDPS Parliament Club will be pleased to support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26132	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26133	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Vekic, colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't know how to begin. I'll start like this. The Hippocrates, our famous Hippocrates whom we swear to be a doctoral profession, more than two thousand years ago separated superstition from science. What is it now in Serbia, the beginning of the 21st century and we are talking about immunisation and the harmfulness of vaccines and the harmfulness of immunisation? I won't go that far in the past. I will tell you that I come from Nis, where the first Paster Institute was formed in the territory of the Balkans in 1900, that then Serbia with the construction of the Paster Institute was only the 15th country to make the Paster Institute after Paris, fourteen years after Moscow and ten years after New York. Serbia, then with 80% of the illiterate population, made Paster's Institute thanks to Dr Mihajl Markovic and set out to enlighten Serbian citizens and treat and provide the health status of our nation. This was done in the composition of Moravka Permanent Military Hospital and there they set out to create the first animal lymphatics and practically the first development of vaccines in the territory of the Balkans was in Nis, it was in our beautiful Serbia. What happens now in the early 21st century? Some people make a mess, they meet fear among parents, parents get scared because they listen that some vaccine can cause multiplesclerosis, let's have diabetes, some autism, some Parkinson's disease. I've listened to everything and I can tell you that I'm very sorry that there are people who are sowing fear, who are bringing us back to the Middle Ages, who are embarrassing the medical profession, since that name is some doctors who are a disgrace to the medical profession. I understand and understand the fear of parents. And I'm a parent who vaccinated a child, but every parent wants his child well. There's no parent who wants bad for his child. When the moment comes to receive the vaccine, he hears via the Internet, which is the most modern and modern means of notification, that some people there, who are not doctors, have no medical licenses in Serbia, and I don't even know where they live, and I don't know what theories of treatment they have, say – don't get vaccinated, don't take antibiotics, look at the sun, walk barefoot. They're high-end doctors. With Serbian language, the Serbian law, which punishes these people, these are, my dear MPs, my fellow Serbian citizens, the pious doctors who have to come under the influence of the Criminal Law, who clearly treats narcissism, narcissism and which clearly indicates that the law must protect the citizens of Serbia, especially for the health population of our children. At some sessions of the Health and Family Committee, I called this kind of campaign, which is clearly orchestrated, which clearly intends to harm the youngest population of the Republic of Serbia, a kind of coup. Many laughed at the forums, the Facebook pages of these famous lobbies of a doctor, in addition to the insult and ridicule that we all who do something in the interests of our country, our children experienced, that something like this is now talking about vaccines that started to be given, I said, in the early 19th century. Each of us was vaccinated, so he didn't get autism, so he didn't get Parkinson's, so he didn't get any of those diseases, so our parents were vaccinated, so we vaccinated the children and the miracles, in the 21st century, someone was saying it could be harmful. Yes, it can be harmful. Why can it be harmful? Because we rooted out a number of infectious diseases. You must, Serbian citizens, know that the vaccine is a civilizational good, that the vaccine has saved more human lives than any other medical method, any other surgical method, any medicine, any antibiotic, any cytostatic. Immunization has saved many peoples from extinction. Remember the variety of faith that struck Serbia, which blew up Serbian citizens, how we fought, how the whole nation was vaccinated in a few hours, not to mention, in a few days and we beat that monster that happened. Remember now some epidemics that occur. Now I'm asking, I come from Nis, there's an official outbreak of little goddesses in Nis, the Institute of Public Health has declared it guilty. It's not my parents' fault. I want to tell you, parents are not to blame. And I'm a supporter of parents not being punished, but these charlatans, the pompous doctors, the white mags, the witch doctors, they come back again. So, Middle Ages, I thought we left them in the Middle Ages, that it is now medicine that will heal and that will be the primate of our nation's health culture. In the late 19th century, the Kingdom of Serbia began to vaccinate 80% of the illiterate population. The Serbian army vaccinated itself and had no consequences. Now we're talking about something that's really, in my opinion, a big scandal. I am pleased that this time in parliament we have performed very maturely because we have had about a month and a half, two days to work together with the Ministry of Health, with the Institute of Public Health, with the Medical Chamber, with the Serbian Medical Society, with the directors of infectious clinics, with excellent experts epidemiologists, where we have heard different comments on this topic and where, as politicians, we have entered a process, I must stress, indeed, together. This is a message sent to Serbian citizens that they don't need to be scared and that they don't trust this kind of nonsense that they're meeting with certain Facebook profiles and certain addresses, and also the appeal to the media. There's a law on public advertising that clearly punishes if you call people who don't have a medical license, who talk about health care. So it's causing direct damage through national means of public information, but someone serious can sue those media for doing it. There's a law on public advertising. Let's do some decent work. It is important for Serbian citizens to understand that this bill is not an imposition of mandatory vaccination. I want to tell you that there has been a very long mandatory vaccination in Serbia, that this has been done in the former SFRY, that it is valid in all former Yugoslav republics from Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia, Montenegro and Macedonia. Now that's what the media is pumping - the mandatory vaccination is being adopted today. That's not true. Mandatory immunization exists and existed before today. With today's debate, today's adoption of this law makes it clear once again that the state is behind the immunisation process, that the state is behind the guarantee of the vaccine, that the state is behind the process of immunity of children and that no one can now say that the state wants bad. They're talking, I want to tell you, I can't believe that in the 21st century someone can go through Facebook and say that there is a joint action of government ministries with MPs, with medical professions, with medical professional organisations, to destroy the children's population in Serbia. Who in their right mind can say that? I would be the first to oppose mandatory vaccination or in general vaccination if someone gave it to me, my colleague Đuric spoke, a very clear, well-intentioned conclusion, some work that was published by a medical profession where it was said to cause harm. Many vaccines exist. When you take medicines, there are side effects. Many vaccines have less harmful effects than regular aspirin tablets. The aspirin tablet can cause your stomach ulcer, it can cause reflux, it can cause allergies, it means significantly more dangerous complications. We drink aspirin every day. I drank it this morning. Is aspirin supposed to be the subject now, that we're talking about aspirin? In doing so, I want to tell you, when someone is called on that side, on that non-civilisation side, to say -- no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Dear Serbian citizens, I wish there was a health culture of Serbian citizens that is the same as in Norway, Sweden and Germany where the rate of vaccination is 97% for many vaccines. Unfortunately, in Serbia, it fell to below 85%. Epidemiologists say it's our nation's safety if more than 95% of children are vaccinated during the year. The minister said, he came out, that we fell below 85% for some vaccines, and so did some of the epidemics in Belgrade, Vojvodina, now and in my Nis. I'm asking again - who's to blame? Can't your parents be guilty? Those parents can't be guilty. They can't be the state. The state is clearly behind it today. The message sent to the parents is that this is nothing new, that the state is behind the safety of the vaccine. These vaccines received by Serbian citizens, i.e. children in Serbia are received in both Germany and France. They're the same manufacturers. I would say that once again, on the Committee on Health and Family, I would say, I would further check, I think the state of Serbia is doing it, but I would like to hear it also clearly said that these vaccines, which are given in France and Germany, are additionally being checked in Torlak. Check more times, no harm done. To be clear to the citizens, the vaccine is something that is very good and certainly provides a better and safer childhood for your children. No parent wants a bad child. Every parent wants his child to live longer than he does, to have a better childhood than he did. I'm just saying that immunization is a process that ensures that the child doesn't get sick, that the child doesn't get in a situation where one minute he becomes sick and that his life is questionable and threatened. What I'm saying is that opponents of mandatory vaccination, i.e. The opponents of the vaccine say – you know what, we think that many infectious diseases have been eradicated and that the much better principle is the one they advocate, which is that the child spontaneously comes into contact with a harmful virus or harmful bacteria. That's not true. It's a big delusion. It's a dangerous delusion that can cost the child's health or life. So whoever acts like this is acting irresponsibly irresponsible and very dangerous to our population, the health population of our children and the health condition of our nation. I can figure out the parents who were protesting the other day outside the assembly, that is. in the labour council market, which expressed a desire for vaccination to be free and that parents freely opted for it. So, I'd be the first to think about it if there was such enlightenment, as a doctor, I'm dealing with a lot of nonsense, and I'm going to tell you that there are still a number of good doctors who are using an evil situation, a bad situation of sick people, who are treating a number of cancers with some melanomas, some grasses, tea, taking money from these people, and, unfortunately, they're making their health worse. There are a number of pompous doctors, white mules in Serbia, in the interior of Serbia. There are in Belgrade, there are in Nis where the burning of the middle ear or the incendiary of the outer ear canal put on white onions, zeythins, for the treatment of sinus, these great pompous doctors, by forums, treat by putting on sea cucumbers and sea melons. Guys, it's the 21st century. I said - Hippocrates separated science from magic and superstition. The superstition is currently happening in Serbia. The superstition is sent over some Facebook warrants. I want to tell you that this is one civilizational fluid. I wish there were vaccines for some incurable diseases. I wish there were vaccines for numerous cancers. I wish there was a vaccine for AIDS. We'd be so much happier, many of our people would be cured and not talk like we're talking right now. I urge you once again to make it clear that we all send a message of encouragement to parents, that we should not worry, that the state today clearly, more than clearly, is behind the safety of the vaccine and that all responsibilities, as far as vaccination is concerned, are being taken over by the state. So there's no need for a parent to sign anything. This is the subject of today’s debate in the congregation, not of imposing. The mandatory vaccination exists from the former Yugoslavia, so we all lived well, so we talked that the health system of the former SFRY was one of the best, and it was one of the best in Europe, and the profession estimated then that there must be mandatory vaccination. This is just the harmonisation of two laws: the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and the Law on Mandatory Immunisation, where it was misread by a number of pediatricians, where it was abused by an antivaccinal lobby, and where parents were advised not to sign, to ask for a doctor to sign to take responsibility. When the state says, when parliament votes to something, you have nothing to sign, because the state is behind it, it stands behind the safety of the vaccine, it is behind the importance of the immunisation process. So dear parents, there's no need to trust some people who hide behind fake Facebook profiles anymore, the question is, here's a colleague who said what financial circles stand in order to disrupt our children's health, so this is a nice day for the Serbian parliament to perform in a unique manner in order to combat the honour of the Middle Ages that comes back, shushka, waiting for the moment to return to Serbia, to treat ourselves with "baba vangams" or some diletaries. So the health profession clearly recognized how many infectious diseases are being treated. We immunize ourselves with the same vaccines as the children of Europe are immunized. I'll end up with this when someone tells me that in some countries there are no vaccinations and that someone can say that freely, in 2001, 2002, I had a scholarship from the Swiss government and I was at the University ORL clinic in Zurich. The first thing they asked me was whether you were vaccinated against Hepatita B to get into the O.R., and I didn't. It was not then in 2001, it was not a mandatory vaccination against Hepatita B, and I received a vaccine in Zurich, one of the most developed cities and the most developed hospital. Well, if they take vaccines, some fake Facebook profiles when they tell you -- don't take the vaccine, you just smile at them, because they don't deserve anything but one laugh, because they're one big mess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26134	Thank you. The word has a professor, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go, Mrs. Dejanovic. Please reapply, technique to us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26135	Thank you. Dear Vice President, I am pleased to join my fellow Members, and I am convinced that today as a Parliament we are sending to those families, those young parents who may have had some dilemma, a very clear message. This parliament is relying on the profession, relying on knowledge, relying on facts. Indeed, without very concrete evidence, we did not say a single word today. I am particularly pleased that the SPS parliamentary group, throughout the intensive work of the Health Committee on the initiative of our distinguished Minister Loncar, has been informed of the activities that we have conducted very intensively, very seriously and from representatives of all institutions in the country and all individuals. We invited, of course, those who don't think like us, as we say and think today, but they didn't come. They are somewhere safer when they send a message on networks because it may be that some of them are deluded, some may be deluded on a sick basis, and some are extremely tenant and do not want to face arguments. This Parliament has passed a major exam today and it is a great pleasure to realize that the problem we are talking about today has two components. Subjective and objective. Subjective is parents' anxiety, how to provide what is best for raising their child, how to prevent infectious diseases, and the vaccine is the greatest civilizational achievement and are, in fact, to tell many infectious diseases, and how can their child in no way be the victim of knowledge and delusion? Of course, we need to be aware of the fact that today, two million children, in a year, die because they haven't received the vaccine. It's the World Health Organization's data, it's facts. The abuse in our midst or not of a finding, the laws that are in place, and we have a supervisory function, has simply inspired all of us to join each other and to say very competent persons on the Committee of Health, we have also called on the Minister of Education because we think that education, knowledge or not knowledge of this issue is very important, it has resulted that, here I am convinced only 16 MPs who were probably not physically able to sign, did not sign the amendment and addition of the law that is today on the agenda. The objective part is to be honest, one not to be able to interpret the two laws, but not to be vague about the alleged discrepancies of Article 15. The Law on the Rights of Patients and Article 25. The law on protection against infectious diseases, we have today made one clarification with this text. In fact, what we said was the first thing we said about immunisation, that is, vaccination is a preventive medical measure. Why? Because in Article 15(2), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Law on the Protection of Patients’ Rights states that a parent, or guardian, should sign for any invasive method that is applied in the diagnostic and therapeutic procedures of his child, or persons for whom he is designated as an guardian. Of course, it is not said that preventive measures should require written consent, but since it is quite possible for different and different procedures not all to know what preventive measures are, what are diagnostics, what are therapeutic medical measures, there has been one clarification and we have simply defined vaccination as one preventive measure, with all the other qualifications that we have given in the definition of this amendment. Why are some called to the fact that in some countries, exactly the countries that are our role models, there is no mandatory vaccination? It is Great Britain, Denmark, Estonia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Germany, Norway, Finland and Sweden. In each of these countries, it has already been said on several occasions that the coverage of vaccinated children is over 95%, some over 97%. These are countries that, in a way that has resolved the issue of prevention of infectious diseases, are now devoting huge resources, since they have the opportunity to solve even the immunisation of mass non-infectious diseases. I'm concerned with Alzheimer's. You know, there was a vaccine today against Alzheimer's. It's working on suppressing the unwanted effect, which is incephalitis, and it's going to start to apply. I hope that's soon. So vaccines aren't getting away, but countries that have high levels of education and young parents and general populations don't have the problems we face. Not only us, but Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, so the three countries that are relatively geographically close to us, which also have a law on mandatory immunisation of children in the first year, i.e. up to 15 months, are these mandatory vaccinations. They solved it the way we do it again today, for the second time, by harmonising these two legal acts. There is no doubt that the vaccination calendar that will be a special topic for all of us, and previous experts here in parliament when we are voting for a new law on prevention, or on the protection of infectious diseases, there is no doubt that this vaccination calendar should be analysed in detail. In Croatia, for example, the calendar of vaccinations is brought by the health minister every year. Here the question of sanctions has been raised several times, you know, I think it's incomparable that we go to education first of all, health workers and that indeed medical chambers and various professional esnafian forms of association are rigorously punishing ignorance. So, an expert can't be wrong. He has to answer, and he must have the responsibility that all his colleagues here have been talking about. Who can not know? Who can be scared? Where's the unrest? Where's the subjective problem? In a parent who hears two different informations he really doesn't know who to trust, but with this bill, we've established an exact procedure, a doctor examines a child. It assesses whether there may be some reason for temporary contraindication, if the child has a fever, no one will give him a vaccine, he will delay in a few days. It's called temporary contraindication. If there is any reason for permanent contraindication, even a doctor himself must not do so without consulting with two other colleagues. It's teamwork. The degree of security of the profession, in everything we have proposed today, is for the level of information and knowledge of our parents, our citizens more than adequate. So I think that today we all really share the great satisfaction that there are no people in parliament who simply want to because of the delusions, because of the tendencies, because of the pharmacomafia, I dare say that term, because the more infectious diseases, especially among children, that's the use of drugs bigger and that's what to think about. But that's the topic, not for us in parliament, it could be a topic for those bodies that my colleague was just talking about. These are the authorities of the investigation, of the judiciary and of the other countries and of us. Of course, there are those who think they do good deeds when they spread evil information. They can be forgiven, but, you know, their influence can be great. My colleague, Milisavljevic, talked about these mags a lot. They don't belong where they are. They belong in a completely different location. Therefore, when all 250 MPs vote for a proposal to amend this law, this parliament will show one maturity when it comes to our common need to separate health policy from all policies. It will be an opportunity for really the Ministry of Health, the Committee on Health which is now running the activities, but on the initiative of the Ministry of Health, to all health institutions, to all health institutions, not to say thank you, but just to say – that is your obligation, that is our obligation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26136	I thank Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Here you go, Mr. Bliss. The word has Dr Branislav Blazic, an authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26137	The Honorable Chairman, Professor Vekic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in the 21st century here in this high house we defend the profession and science, we defend the greatest achievement of human medicine, and these are vaccinations, we defend the truth against lies, we defend reason against unreasonableness, we defend children's right to health, we defend children's right to a happy childhood. From who? From the antivaccinal lobby, people who spread panic through the social network through ignorance and other interests. The anti-vaxinal lobby was created in America and it's just a wonder it was made in America. How did he find suitable ground in this country? First of all by acting on parents, acting on what is most sensitive, which is the love of parents to their child, his concern where a parent in that care often thinks irrationally. On the other hand, pressing uncertainty for everything and everything, he no longer trusts anyone. The lost trust in institutions, lost trust in authority, lost trust in education and science, is certainly suitable ground for various mechanics who insert some of their logic and some of their lies. This trust has been lost to education, above all, because of the hyper production of various private colleges, the waving of powerful diplomats where you cannot know and separate knowledge from ignorance and that haughtiness and aggression become a synonym for success in society. Therefore, the state must, for its part, promote its population primarily in health care and not allow such influences of various antivacinal and similar lobbies to be accepted in society at all. We have examples and they say that in Western European countries you have no obligation to vaccinate. Yes, there is no obligation in these countries, but there are 97% of vaccine children. We're going to introduce a legal obligation tomorrow, and we're not going to be able to reach that percentage, which shows how much we're still behind them in health enlightenment. Technology, machines, and separation and alienation have been inserted between patients and doctors. This is why the sanctification of the population is most important. We watched one show a few days ago where Professor Ilic, a prominent expert in the area, sat on one side, and on the other hand one woman who is an English teacher, and the other one is a programmer. Now they were supposed to discuss professionally, scientifically whether children should be vaccinated or not. Imagine that, on the one hand, a respected expert, on the other hand, two laymen who have nothing to do with it. Such a show, believe me, you won't find anywhere in this world. Someone calls it democracy. For me, it's completely crazy when they asked and when the journalist had already lost her nerve and asked the English teacher in question – with which arguments she performs to say that children should not receive a BSZ vaccine at birth, she said – based on common sense. Imagine how healthy that mind really is. These people and Border Ly, the guys who are on the border on this side and on the other side of reason, that you can't put into pathology, and you can't put them in reasonable, you're the most aggressive and influential because they don't know that they don't know, and they think they do. You're the most dangerous. What I'd like to say now is that everyone, believe me, and among those anti-vaccinal lobbyists, that only once saw a child of pertuzis, a little child in a bed that cries, tears and doesn't cry loudly because he's going to get a cough attack again, of that fear and that fear in those eyes of asphyxiation that you'll never see anywhere, that only once they've seen that child standing there because he can't lie down and take a nap like that with blood on his eyes, only once they've seen that picture when it faded tired and suddenly passes into blue and dies of asphyxiation would never occur to them to say anything against the vaccine. In 1970, the English decided to lift the vaccine against the pertuzis. They got an epidemic very quickly. They've reduced the vaccine to 39%. A few children died, and then they panicically returned the vaccine, and they won't think of stopping it anymore. Just to remember how many tetanus children died. Let's just remember the show "The Village of Sakula in Banat" when the father says – that nail better in my eye than in my child's leg, complaining about a dead child. Let's think of a polish of melitus, how many disillusioned families were of child paralysis. The Chinese now have an epidemic of polio, so they're going to vaccinate everything they get in one of their states. Is that coming back to us? Can someone say that children should not be given a TB vaccine at birth? Only those who don't know anything can say that, who have forgotten how much tuberculosis has caused, how many hearths she's put out, how many black banners there have been in every other house for tuberculosis. Do they think the tuberculosis is gone? He'll never leave. We will fight with her while mankind is. Did they forget Uncle Jovo the Dragon and the Juliets when he cried as a doctor over his dying children and couldn't help them? Shouldn't we welcome it back to Serbia? What civilization level have we experienced? Have we forgotten the Variola Vera? Well, she was almost there. If we hadn't managed to vaccinate the population and make quarantine, who knows how many of us would be left today. What's the antivaccinal lobby up against? It's a terrible thing to listen, not to talk about it. Understandably, young mothers do not and do not know, have not felt how terrible it looks when a child is born, and you do not know if he will survive because of many infectious diseases. If someone told my mother - you can't vaccinate children, I don't know, she'd jump into their eyes. Today they don't feel that danger, these young parents, what it means and how dangerous it can all be. The antivaccinal lobby is talking about autism from the MMR vaccine. That's what some English guy beat up and stayed alive. 12 studies, 12 scientific studies, hundreds of thousands of children have been done, and that's not confirmed. Science has rejected it. What are they talking about? Responsibility, you know, is often manipulated by that word. Responsibility is a matter of competence and authority. No one has the right to take responsibility, not even a parent for his child unless he's competent. It must take the state into its own hands. The state has to be responsible for children because it's the highest value the state has, for their health, for their lives. It is not possible, so this is not the time for Jehovah’s Witnesses to not allow their child to have blood transfusions. We had a girl's case in a car accident, a ruptured spleen, a major bleeding, a parent's not allowed to transfuse. What does that mean? He takes responsibility? No, I don't. Responsibility can only take over who's competent and who's authorized. In this case, it'll be a state. I'd like to live in a country where we don't have this law, and we have 97% of conscious parents who will come and get the child to be vaccinated. I'd love to, but that time will come, I sincerely hope so. So I call on parents to understand that this session and this wish and the Ministry and the Health Committee and all these people, MPs here, is in their interest and their children's interest, to believe science, to believe in the profession, to trust institutions, not to believe in any kind of returnees, invented, defeated experts, guys who don't know they don't know. I thank you, all MPs who have so much reason, so much desire to help, whether medics or not, have invested that we are fighting together for this country, for this society and for the children who absolutely deserve it. I thank you again that this high house, next to politics, shows a high degree of honesty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26138	I thank you, Mr. Bliss. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. We now move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the principled search of the bill. The only registered speaker is MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26139	There is no dilemma that there are many things in life, anywhere in the world, and even in Serbia, where it is necessary to listen to the profession and there is no need to open a debate where it does not belong. This is one of those examples. Vaccination, yes or no? I think there's probably 250 here, that we're all here an example that she's been successful since we've all been vaccinated in some previous period, the mass of people around us. Any story that goes, which is a struggle, delusion and some ugly past with science and profession, of course, should be interrupted as soon as possible. I've heard a lot, another example of that is this debate that's been opening for the last months on the medical use of cannabis. It's not a matter of politics. It's a matter of profession and it's not a topic to deal with political parties and there's a lot of such topics. I've heard a lot of remarks about social media, not social networks. Social networks are possibilities and someone in this case took advantage of that possibility for evil, but that means someone missed out on using social networks for something good. Neither Facebook nor Twitter are to blame for the fact that the authorities didn't bring in any better or any better, and then a better, positive campaign for having children to go to vaccination, and we know that there are various forces and groups known as the bots, who are willing to write anything. She could have mobilized about a good subject. Why do people believe in delusions? Why do they believe in miracles unseen? Why do they believe in the grandmother of Wang and the magicians and the White Magog? It's not the social networks, it's the irresponsible authorities, I repeat, the authorities, the crowds. Anyone who offers miracles for three days, anyone who offers fairy tales from a magic carpet, anyone who offers mambo-jambo variants of course, recruits a number of citizens who will start believing in any kind of nonsense. And it has to be interrupted. What should have been done was a good campaign and a health care system needs to be changed. The new party in its health programme offers as a solution to the Beveridz system, a system that is applied to several rich people, but also to several countries that, by standard, can be compared to Serbia. This system involves free health care for all citizens, primary health care, unlike this system that we now have, which is the Bismark system, whose consequence is that several hundred thousand people in need of healthcare are not sure they have it, some are sure they don't have it, and many who think they have it depending on whether contributions are paid this month or last month. That's gotta change. Fear of inability to treat is one of the greatest fears of transition, anyone in power, and that fear can change with this change of law. We'll continue the campaign. Military health should be integrated into civil health, thus reducing costs. There's no need for two parallel systems. We need to get Beverly out of the budget, and according to the existing system from the Health Fund, to create a competition where private health will enter and offer the same services of the same quality at a better price and, of course, we need to start doing it seriously. Camping must be serious, both medical and professional. Last night I saw it from my terrace, a shining ad, I haven't seen it recently – Serbia's Clinical Centre, it's seen from half of Belgrade. He looks nice. He's only got a few flaws. It's on the eighth or ninth floor of a building that's completely empty, not since yesterday, not from this government, it's empty, I think, 25, 26 years old. It's made as one card tower, not that there are no patients and doctors in seven, eight floors, but there's no window or door. It's a metaphor of what we have today in Serbian health and that's what needs to change. Of course it's nice to put on commercials, of course it's nice to run campaigns, but these campaigns have to have a basis in fact. So let's just drop it by making letters on state television when someone's trying to save someone else's lives, such as a helicopter, rather than doing our job seriously, especially when it comes to health and when it comes to children.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26140	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to begin by thanking the distinguished colleagues who gave their expert debates what, unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to hear in the public daily, first Dr Posukurica, Prof. Dr. Djurović, Dr. Milisavljevic, Prof. Dr. Djukić Dejanović, Dr. Blažic. They gave us information that, unfortunately, as I said, we don't often get a chance to hear in public. Let me tell you at the beginning that our position is that vaccination is necessary, because if we stop injecting children, in 20 years, we would return the diseases that we are close to rooting out and that would really have an irreparable effect on the health of our population, but also individual organisms would lead to major complications, even in many cases to death. We listened to the entire course of the debate and I want to point out that we support vaccination, but only at the level at which it was regulated in developed countries, so at the level of recommendation. I refuse to accept that the awareness of our population and the possibility of our population is below the level of awareness of developed European countries. I therefore consider it solely an obligation on the part of the institutions to provide adequate information in order to make a decision on this type of health care based on the recommendations. As we have heard, there is a high dose of trust and reliability in the methods of immunisation of the organism and therefore people are largely opt for vaccination. This is the case in Western European countries that have reached, we have heard, levels and up to 97% coverage of vaccines. Now the clear question is, have these countries come to that level with a prior requirement of vaccination, or is this about adequate information? We cannot blame parents for fear that is natural when it comes to children's health, because the lack of information expresses concern in this method. It's just nature. It's that parental reflex or the famous sixth sense, and we have to keep that in mind. It is therefore necessary to present to everyone all aspects of vaccination, accurate composition, effectiveness, but also possible risks and unwanted reactions, and thus allow freedom of choice. I cannot accept the fact that on the one hand, it is possible for carriers and carriers of certain infectious diseases, such as EJC, hepatitis, etc., to refuse treatment by respecting their human rights, and to impose mandatory vaccination on healthy newborns or healthy adults. Today we do not have any legal provision that obliges a doctor or a health care institution to provide the necessary information to patients and parents of healthy children on vaccine vaccination and composition, possible side effects, i.e. any adverse consequences. Part of that information we had today was an opportunity to hear in, as I said, the expert presentations of our esteemed colleagues. Unfortunately, doctors in our country are often not willing enough to provide the necessary information, nor to provide guarantees, nor to take responsibility for the vaccine they prescribe not to cause more damage than benefits. With that in mind, I don't think at this point there are any minimum conditions for such a method to be identified as mandatory. A doctor who injects a child must necessarily examine the child, take out a blood count and allergens before each vaccine, so that any negative reaction of a specific organism can be excluded at the highest percentage, to get to know parents about all details concerning vaccines and vaccinations, as well as to take over a certain burden of the risk of a final decision. It's only when we predict it by law that you can think about, as we said, so-called mandatory vaccination. Caution measures reduce risks to a minimum and we must provide for them by law as preconditions for the introduction of mandatory vaccination. There are children who are born with certain damages and have been found to do more harm than good because of their weakness. They need to avoid any exclusion. Without dilemma, vaccination of children is necessary, but unfortunately, it is not the highest quality provided by the state, but must be provided by private funds, which is another obstacle to the introduction of mandatory vaccination. In the light of this proposal for a law, which treats compliance with EU rules, it states, among other things, that there are no relevant EU rules to comply with the provisions of this bill, and there is a point that says - reasons for partial compliance, i.e. inconsistencies with EU rules. All this is enough to ask the question why is this bill not in line with the developed EU countries and the EU as a whole, which as a country we are seeking? Given all that I've said today and what we've heard in today's debates, I don't think at this point there are any minimum conditions to support this bill and, let me, in the voting day we won't be in favour or against, but we'll be restrained when it comes to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-16-0.u26142	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the principled search of the bill. With the work we continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, discussing the second item of the agenda, on a joint single search on points of three to six agendas. Thank you.
