ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the number of Members of the People's Parliament, I find that the session is attended by 116 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 137 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 278. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Sabina Dazdarevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31140	Thank you, dear President of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer the parliamentary question to the Minister of Justice, Mr Nikola Selakovic. It is – when will you take the necessary measures to amend the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts of Public Prosecutors, and to establish a basic court and criminal court based in Tutin, as well as a public prosecutor's office for the Tutin municipality? As part of the reform of the judiciary implemented in the Republic of Serbia, which began in 2010 under the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors in Tutina, the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the General Court, which is in the past jurisdiction of the Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. the General Court in Novi Pazar, were abolished. It's been more than five years of the work of the judicial authorities in this kind of organization, and you can see its shortcomings very clearly. Justifiably, a request can be made for the establishment of an independent criminal court in Tutin for the establishment of a primary court based in Tutin and the public prosecutor's office for the Tutin municipality. Namely, for both types of courts, i.e. for each individual judge, as well as for the Public Prosecutor's Office in the territory of the Tutin municipality, there are sufficient cases for the fully independent work of these courts, so that these courts can function independently, not be judicial units and the division of another court. Also, in practice, it proved to be a bad solution to the current judiciary organisation, as communication between the court and the department's headquarters, or judicial unit, is difficult because it is primarily a distance of more than 30km in one direction, and the road connecting Novi Pazar and Tutin is the worst possible route in Serbia. All requests, claims and letters relating to the department, i.e. the Tutin judicial unit, shall first be taken to the seat of the court in Novi Pazar, and thereafter shall be delivered physically to the department, or to the judicial unit in Tutin. Also, all decisions and other documents made in the department must be physically delivered in the Tutin court unit for divorce in the main court-seat entry, all of which is a large ballast in order to be delivered through regular mail. In particular, problems arise when it comes to the need to act immediately in certain cases, so-called a shortened procedure within the meaning of Article 308. The law on violations, because each of these cases should be brought immediately to the main register of the court in Novi Pazar. A growing number of such cases must be handled immediately, as the municipality of Tutin borders Montenegro and on its territory lies the official border crossing of the caves. As a result of difficult communication and mandatory administration, much is lost in time, which is why the so-called shortened procedure is often the meaning of fast-tracking and case-solving within the meaning of Article 308. The law of violations. It should be noted that at the border crossing of the caves there are regular customs officers, i.e. the station of the customs administration of Kraljevo, which also reflects the increased number of cases under the Customs Law and the need for swift treatment in those cases where parties are mostly foreigners, mostly from the Republic of Montenegro. So, the border line towards Montenegro, which is 60km and the administrative line towards Kosovo at 40km, can be said to be the source of many illicit actions that can be qualified as a violation, a criminal offence or a commercial offence, and in any case, the judicial authorities have an obligation to act urgently in all cases, i.e. in these cases, to conduct so-called. a shortened procedure within the meaning of Article 308. The law of violations. If, as a democratic society, we want to make justice available to all citizens and to provide protection to citizens, protection of public order and peace, public security, public order in general, it will be far more effective if the criminal court, the basic court and the prosecution exist as independent authorities for the territory of the Tutin municipality. For the above reasons, I am asking the question of the Minister of Justice to Mr Nikola Selakovic - when you will take the necessary measures to amend the Law on Seats and Areas of the Courts, the public prosecutors, and that the territory of the Tutin municipality is formed as a basic court and criminal court based in Tutin, as well as the Public Prosecutor's Office for the Tutin Municipality, noting that the existing number of judges and other workers is quite enough so that the formation of independent courts, i.e. the Public Prosecutor's Office would not increase the total number of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31141	Thank you. Otherwise, my recommendation is that you speak in the microphone, and it's better when you sit down, you hear very badly. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31142	I would like to thank the Honorable President. The current topic, unfortunately, is the chronic topic of environmental protection mainly of Obrenovac, and very often other places in Serbia. Before that question, the citizens of Obrenovac are interested in these days, given that they have received a solution that has been increased multiplely for property tax whether there is a possibility that of all those strong promises made in May and June of last year, there will be benefits for the citizens of Obrenovac, is there a way that this tax that is multiplely increased. Practically, the citizens of Obrenovac did not use their assets for six months, and they received astronomical tax bases for the calculation. My question for the finance minister is – why has the property tax in Obrenovac been increased multiplely in the city where citizens bear the financial consequences of removing flood damage? Of course, we know that the tax also determines that it is in the jurisdiction of local self-government, but I believe that Minister Vujovic could find a way and that he should deal with this issue. The citizens of Obrenovac did not use their property much last year, and we should find them, not just promise help for flooded areas. Whether there is a possibility that the property tax for the citizens of Obrenovac will remain at last year's level, that is the least the government of the Republic of Serbia can do for the citizens of Obrenovac. Unfortunately, the consequences are still visible. The citizens of the Obrenovac have not yet returned their city to normal. In fact, most of the property was not used during 2014. That is why my appeal and question is addressed to Minister Vujovic. On the other hand, we have a black smoke coming out of the "Nikola Tesla" Termopower Plant in Obrenovac on the third day. The officials say the reason for the bloc's launch is that the deposit of the mule is one of the reasons, but even more so they say it lasts for two to three hours, and here in Obrenovac it has been for three days. Somehow at the same time, questions are raised for the Obrenovac. After a catastrophic flood and mainly the country's concerns in May and June, most of the worry ends in September, Obrenovci and local self-government are left to themselves, and there is no serious help from the Serbian government or from foreign creditors, each new rain brings new headaches to the Obrenovcans. On the other hand, the issue of heating in the coming seasons is raised in Obrenovci because the Obrenovci are attached to the A1 block and the A2 block and the question for Minister Alexander Antic – are there plans for the alternative heating of the town of Obrenovac, since for 40 years Serbia has enormous effects on electricity? How are they gonna do that? When are they going to do that and does anyone think in the Serbian government about Obrenovac? The question concerning the absence of Obrenovčana's interest in how far the project has arrived and when it will be completed. It is also a matter aimed at Mr Alexander Antic, Minister of Energy and Mining. What is the quality of air in Serbia and that this is a serious problem is the scientific research and statement of experts that have appeared in public in recent days and which says that PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentrations are significantly higher than those allowed in the EU and which are according to the World Trade Organisation's recommendations. What is very characteristic is that in 2010, about 10,000 people in Serbia were estimated to have died prematurely due to exposure to suspended particles and ozone. It is the second highest rate of premature deaths due to air pollution in Europe. In addition, there were 2.5 million days of absence from work. As a result of the pollution of ambient air in coal thermoelectric plants, more than 1,000 people per Serbia suffer from chronic bronchitis, 600 were hospitalized due to respiratory or cardiovascular symptoms, while 2,000 deaths are annually blamed for air pollution. The largest number of patients and the largest number of deaths are in Obrenovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31143	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31144	Thank you, President. These days, Serbian citizens were alarmed by news that meat of suspected origin appeared on the green market. In fact, it is the fact that veterinary inspectors and police seized about four tonnes of meat that was then processed in Crepaia, which was sold at a market in the Green Wreath in Belgrade. In fact, it is an anonymous report by citizens who called the police and said they suspected that this meat had been imported from Kosovo, Argentina and Brazil and that it was subsequently processed in that illegal butcher in Crepaia and eventually sold at the green market, and who knows where else. I ask the question of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Government of the Republic of Serbia how does the meat of suspected origin from Argentina, Kosovo and Brazil listed here arrive in Serbia? Is that meat being checked? Afterwards, who can buy that meat, in fact who can process that meat that is imported from that, let's say now those three countries, who has the right to buy that meat and to process that meat? I'd like to commend in this case the veterinary inspection and the police, but not the ones in charge of getting that meat into our country. I also ask the Ministry of Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, which concerns the municipality of Shid, where the first round of state land leases was made in March. The bid was made, but 600,000 hectares remained unlicitiated, i.e. that means that 600 hectares of land are not being processed. The country is still being processed, but no one knows who it is, because the second round of bidding for this land has not been done. I want to ask these ministries why the second round of bids of state land in Shid is not done? Well, you know, you don't know who's working, how much money this arena is working for, simply if there were another round of bidding, of course, that lease would cost maybe 200 euros per hectare. That would be around 120,000 euros in local self-government, after all, perhaps 60 young people, if given 10 hectares of state-owned countries to process, could maintain their families and stay in the countryside, so I ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Local Self-Government why no second round of bid for 600 hectares of the state country has been made in Shid.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31145	Thank you. Since no one more than the authorities is answering for a word... (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: I'm looking for a word. ) You are not authorized by this point, by Article 39 alone, to supply authority for 287? It's not these questions, it's afternoon, these notifications are in accordance with Article 287. Give me the authority, and you'll get it, it's no problem. You still have time, since Jasmina Obradovic applied, so find that authority, but she has to be with the captain since this morning, so you'll get it. The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31146	I want to ask two questions before Parliament today. The first question is the Ministry of Labour, the state administration and local self-government, and that is – when Serbian citizens will get an answer to the question already several times, how many employees are in the province's administration. This question has been raised on several occasions, both in the municipal congregations, or in the city, and in the sessions of the circuit assembly. I'm asking that question today in the Republic Parliament of the Government. Why is this such a kept secret? Perhaps the answer lies in just one set of illegalities in the work of the circuit administration. I'll read it now, something came to me from the employees of the Vojvodine Development Bank in bankruptcy, because I had the opportunity to take some of these allegations and convince myself, but I'm quite sure the ministry will bring the whole thing to an end. Therefore, the First Director of the Fund was also the Director of the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina and employed by the Vojvodine Development Bank, from the day of its establishment, or the Fund. In fact, the gentleman stopped working at the Vojvodine Development Bank. It was only 2 April 2013, by the Agreement on the termination of the working relationship, the Treaty establishing the Vojvodina Development Fund, as of 5 February 2013, that the gentleman was appointed as acting Director of the Fund, and the APR's resolution of 11 February 2013, was registered as a legal representative, i.e. Director of the Fund. So we have two months, one man with two valid solutions to two different jobs. The second question, I had a dilemma to ask, whether the Ministry of Finance or perhaps the Department of Economic Crime and the D.A.'s office. I'm sorry to start again with the Development Bank sentence, but the Development Bank is not just a name, it's a system that has brought down the economy of Vojvodina. The agreement on the transfer of assets and obligations of the Development Bank, which was concluded on 7 December between the Republic of Serbia and the AP of Vojvodina, concluded in accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and adopted a proposal for an Agreement on the Transfer of Assets and Obligations of Vojvodina Development Banka Novi Sad. Between the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and the AP Vojvodina, on the other hand. The proposal for an agreement was brought by the government of the Republic of Serbia at a session held on 6 December 2012. I know most opposition MPs don't listen to this, but if the citizens listen carefully, they'll get answers to a lot of questions as to why Vojvodina is in this situation today. Namely, the Law on the Development Fund of the AP Vojvodina is scheduled to carry out credit-approval tasks, and the law was adopted by the Republika Srpska Assembly on a proposal from the Vojvodina Assembly. I have the law right here in front of me. Under this law, the Vojvodina Development Fund was founded as d.o.o. but is a major activity in which the Vojvodina Development Fund deals with "other lending services", which makes it completely contradictory. When transferring part of the property to the Vojvodine AD Development Bank Novi Sad, to the Development Fund, the choice of real estate was made on an arbitrary basis. You can imagine how. Whoever could choose and dominate took the best. By this procedure, the Vojvodine AD Development Bank Novi Sad has lost its business premises, or seats...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31147	Time, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31148	Let me just finish this sentence, please. Also, the AP Vojvodina Development Fund worked at the same time as the Development Fund was already established, i.e. stopped working on 30.06. Much overlaps, and much illustrates how illegality was in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31149	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vesna Martinovic and Jovanovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set by Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the Assembly to discuss proposals for the agenda law, which was set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the session of the 12th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, the following Dn e n i d 1 was determined. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mortgage Act and 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the States, the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other participating States in the Partnership for the Status of their Forces Partnership, with an additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States of the Participants in the Partnership for Peace on the Status of their Forces and the subsequent Additional Protocol on the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States of the Participants in the Partnership for the Status of their Forces. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session by Dr Dusan Vujović, Finance Minister; Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice; Srdjan Kokotovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Zlatko Milikić, Assistant Finance Minister; Dejan Hadzic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance; Maja Kosovcevic, Executive Director of the National Finance Insurance Corporation and Radomir Matijević, adviser at the National Finance Corporation. Before the principle search opens, I just want to let you know for the sake of the organisation of the work that we will begin the afternoon session at 15 to four and it will take three now. It means only 15 minutes earlier, because some of the heads of parliament have asked for some of their obligations, as well as the government. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Not according to the Rules of Procedure. ) Yes, it is in the Rules of Procedure, but read the entire Rules of Procedure. So the government can require a second time and a second date. So the Rules of Procedure aren't just three members, they're all. At 15 to four we will begin and those who can and must first ask questions, most of them refer to, on their own and on the smallest groups to come 15 minutes early. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mortgage Act. Does Minister Vujovic want a word to explain the bill? (Yes) Thank you, go ahead. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31150	Thank you. We were in this room just a few days ago when we discussed another package of laws. One of the points of the agenda last time was a loan that is improving the catastre, as a matter of fact. Today, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mortgage Act, which has a large number of important changes, is, above all, essential and then legally technical and in the legal and technical part, I expect that MPs, using the right of amendment, will help us to reach the best solutions. This isn't a simple area. For me as an economist, it is very important that the mortgage is based on one of the key market institutes, it is the protection of owners and use of ownership that is regulated, entered, etc. as the basis of debt-trust relations, as the basis of financial discipline in the system as the basis for the economy to function effectively and in accordance with world standards. We will be able to attract real big investors only when we have an area of property treatment, including mortgages arranged in the way that it is common in the world and not only defined in the law, but implemented in the way that it is common in the world. The specific proposals the working groups have been working on for several months will be discussed on Monday. Today's general debate should, in my opinion, leave room for us all to understand better together what it is that we are trying to achieve with these amendments and additions to the law. This first and foremost improves the general operating conditions of the Serbian market and general terms of definition, one of the key instruments of the financial system that has serious problems with measuring, assessing and implementing the risks arising from lending, lising and all other instruments that exist, the intention of these changes is to remove the observed shortcomings of the existing law in order to improve the position of creditors in the Republic market, meaning the protection of all creditors, creditors, greater protection of debtors at the same time. So the debtors must be in a situation not that their mortgage is forced and that they are slaves, they are in debt slavery, but that they know exactly what rights they have and how they can protect them, how they have entered into obligations by accepting the mortgage and what fate awaits them. Third, it is an acceleration of the country's overall financial economic activity. So far, you know that the realisation of many market institutes has entered into processes that have been going on forever, and this has in fact been questioned by the meaning of these transactions. Contracts, mortgage loans and other instruments that have been in some state of unrealization for years are not helping anyone. We are in the process of finding a solution for loans that are not serviced on time, IMPL, and we expect that, parallel to these improvements in the Legal Mortgage and that we will have much better conditions on the financial market and what is most important, that we will reduce so-called. ‘Current margins’ which are presently located on a prohibitably high level. In the interest margins of 6, 7, even more than one percent of the world's economy could not function, generate economic growth, create new jobs. Therefore, all of this we are doing with the aim of improving the financial sector, institutions, or market institutes and better and more transparent business. The fourth is the development and completion of the terminology of certain terms used here, since the laws that have introduced some new terminology, including the laws recently passed in this area, I will discuss it more precisely in a minute or two. The proposed solutions should lead to reaffirmation outside the court's settlement procedure from the value obtained by the sale of mortgage immovableity. It's the main form of realisation, especially in the case of mortgage loans on houses, on licking cars and similar things. The practice is that in the world it does not go to court at all but is solved by the extrajudicial execution that everyone agrees to in the previous phase of getting those instruments. I think it's one of the solutions to reforming our judicial system not to deal with those things that are legally in fact clean at the moment of entry into the obligation, and so everyone accepts that realisation and extrajudicial execution is an integral part of the accepted system of values. It usually happens with us that people ignore it, when they make commitments, and then later they all go back to the court that de facto blocks, makes it impossible to execute. So we have thousands and thousands of disputes that block both personal property and, more importantly, economic resources and therefore business activity. This should lead to a higher level of legal and economic security for all participants in the business involving the establishment of a mortgage as one of the most important means of security of the claim. More specifically, the newspapers that are introduced by these amendments and additions to the law are as follows. First, it is explicitly stated that the mortgage trustee has the right to an out-of-court executive mortgage and can make his peace by either court, or out-of-court. So his choice is how he's gonna do it. Secondly, it enables trustees, especially with trade unions, i.e. joint loans, to determine one person who will formally take care of their rights and obligations at any time. One account is determined, so-called. An escort account, to which all proceeds from the sale of the mortgage value and then shall be entrusted with the right of someone who manages that account to distribute the incomes they have made in a fair manner to all creditors. This solves one of the key problems that has been repeated with us for years, which is that mortgage creditors cannot agree on how to share their incomes. So these are all promotional remarks, based on the practice of the last ten years in our country, concrete remarks and suggestions that we have received. I repeat, I expect you to supplement this with further changes and additions that will improve the text of the proposed amendments and obtain a final version of the law that will suit our needs. Secondly, it allows creditors to choose the form of a contract, especially in the case of a super-hypothecary. Third, it allows the conclusion of subsequent contracts in the case of mortgages, there is only one mortgage trustee, as well as the rights of all other mortgage creditors. The next set of newspapers proposed by amendments and additions to the law refers to transparency throughout the process. Transparency must be, for example, from the stage of issuing warnings, delivery of solutions, setting out the rules for the distribution of funds. Everything has to be done in time. All interested parties must be alerted, notified on time. We've had cases in the past where it has been formally done, but notices have been placed on local advertising boards, on the intranet, which has not been available to anyone in similar forms of information that de facto only formally meet the conditions and do not provide the possibility for all interested to be informed of this process. Competition and transparency are the crucial elements of this process and this law allows it to be achieved. As I mentioned, the asset allocation agent is the novelty this law introduces, which should improve both speed and transparency of the process. Of course, this has also made some technical changes to the past law, which eliminates some things that actually don't make sense. If the first mortgage trustee is charged by selling the mortgage, the other entries lose their meaning. The last article in 49 had that the rights of other scribes were maintained, but since the subject of the mortgage was lost, it no longer makes sense. We have made adjustments to the law which leads to some sense of economic and legal logic. I've already mentioned that these amendments and additions to the laws protect debtors. The papers are that it implies that interest is treated in this process, at which level it is determined, that it enters into mortgage-protected obligations. We have a whole series of open interest issues. I think this law introduces a little more order and defines that interest is applied which is defined by individual contracts, and legal and tightened interest is applied, which is defined by law only if it is not done with basic legal instruments that introduces mortgages. Therefore, if you have concluded a mortgage agreement on the apartment, which is defined and defined and basic and tightened interest, there is no need to apply the dragon interest, the tight interest that exists in practice. Debtants are also protected by this, and I don't know how to adapt that term to Serbian, but not to be chicory, not to be treated badly in the process. They are an equal side in the process. Banks and all creditors need to understand that without valuable debtors there is no such thing as a debt-confidential relationship must be equally important on both sides. Banks have to respect their clients and this law is trying to raise debtor status to a level worthy of trust. After all, banks live off payments made towards interest and debtors. Provisions on the content of the sales notice shall be specified. The question is also identified, adding the possibility of selling real estate to a direct contract. It's a newspaper that will probably show its value in practice. I expect that in the debate we will have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail. Finally, it is very important that this law offers the possibility to speed up all procedures and set a period of 18 months to complete all procedures with precisely defined areas of publication, which I have already mentioned, to all stages in this process. The obligation to publish and schedule a public auction and all other key elements is also introduced. Finally, a brief note on the terminology of certain terms set out in the previous law. The alignment with the new laws is important for the real-law nature of the mortgage to be brought into line with the Law on Public Registration, which has recently been adopted. It is predicted that the clause of intabulators can be added to a special correction, given that it belongs to the moment of execution, not the conclusion of the contract. The form and contents shall be defined in order to have the power of the executive document, which is very important for the out-of-court execution, for the mortgage contract, i.e. the publishing document. They shall be specified in respect of the form and legal fact to third parties in the event of a claim. It's very important and there are some restrictions on us that make it impossible for us to do it like we do in the world, which is to enable a secondary market for all instruments based on mortgages. In the world, it is a trend that has been going on for 20 years, in which banks and basic financial institutions that work directly with clients use their client knowledge. So you have a local bank that knows clients, but it's not ideally positioned on the financial market to provide long-term resources. She de facto negotiates a long-term loan, a mortgage loan, but immediately after that she sells the instrument to institutions that are much better positioned to provide funds on the financial market. So local banks, small banks and not trying to raise resources to 30 years, how often in the world is the time limit for mortgage loans, but immediately they sell these instruments to larger institutions that, under better conditions, refinance it on the market. It's not possible for us right now, with housing loans. Therefore, after this law, changes and other laws will be needed, which would allow for the full and efficient functioning of the legal institute of the market economy that we are supplementing and leading to the finals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31151	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) The first has the word of Parliamentarian Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31152	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Mortgage Act. By reading this law, I've interpreted this law as an economist, since I'm not a lawyer, and by the way, I'm a banker. As a former banker, that's how I interpreted this law and realized that this law that is before us would certainly improve our economy, if I may say so. When people hear the word mortgage, it's constantly connected to the word credit. Unfortunately, in our society, it is difficult to find such a man who has not yet taken credit or that he has no credit. Those who lend loans take so-called. the means of security of the claim. Here are the bonds, guarantees, now in recent times life insurance and remains a mortgage on real estate, on real estates that have a lot of value, which is about loans as big as loans taken by citizens and any company in our country. Unfortunately, it has been in practice so far that the payment of claims over, which is secured by the mortgage, has been difficult in practice. In my life practice, unfortunately, five or six percent of the bill was mortgaged or sold the property on which the mortgage was placed. With this law, we're going to solve this problem and we're going to speed up the collection of these claims that are secured by a mortgage. I think it's a positive thing to pass this law, because it will speed up the collection of the entire claim and this will affect the economic and legal security of the participants in the business where the mortgage is sought as a means of security of the claim. I think it will improve the position of creditors on the market, and besides, hopefully, it will speed up investment in our economy. I would point out several important members of this law, which are important, as Mr. Minister said, about interest. Article 2 sets out how the interest is calculated, in which case a tight interest is charged. If it's already in the contract, then the agreed interest is taken at the contract. In Article 9, I think it's a positive thing to give the trustee the opportunity to ask for additional security. If he is a debtor, he is often in our practice, an unwitting mortgage owner, and then he is doing some damage to that immovableity, which is mortgaged, and this member of the trustee may request additional security. I think it's a positive thing in the whole debt-confidential relationship. As has been said, so far, there has been no practice in the practice that warnings have been given to those hypotechnic trustees who were second or third in line. Now under this law, if a warning is sent, the notice is sent to both debtors and other mortgage creditors who have a claim, which is secured by a mortgage on the same immovableity. Article 7 also brings significant news. It solves the problem of noting mortgage sales by out-of-court. If within seven days of receipt of the notice, the immovableity register shall enter this notice and immediately send a solution to the mortgage trustee, debtor, sometimes the owner, because sometimes it is not the owner of that mortgage or immovable property, as well as other mortgage creditors who have provided their claim on the property or property concerned. The important newspaper in this article is that a request for the registration of a mortgage sale note can also be submitted by any mortgage trustee, regardless of which is fine, regardless of the order of the championship. So far, there's been a lot of problems in practice, because there was someone else or third in the record on the immovableity list and they haven't been able to do it so far. They had to wait for order to solve the first case, so to speak. In this law, we still have the exact definition of selling a mortgage or selling a property that is mortgaged. This is about auction sales and, of course, it's a direct contract. In the case of direct contracts, it is pointed out that the value of the direct contract must not be less than 90% of the estimated value of the immovable property. I think it's going to be hard to get rid of that 90% in practice. So far, it's been about 70% of the value. If we're going to get 90%, I think we're going to have a pretty good score. The biggest newspaper is in the article, where the problem is solved, which was the biggest problem in practice, what's going to happen to those trustees who had a second, third-row note. When the property is sold under this law or when it is sold, the owner who bought that immovable property shall be registered immediately, the name of the immovable property owner shall be entered, and the other trustees shall be deleted by force of the law. It's been a while since these creditors went to court, and then this over the court has been stalling for a long time. The law itself, looking at creditors, is unfortunately for creditors, how can I tell you, more positive than for debtors, but there are also such citizens who give friends credit and thus giving credit to lose friendship, but they can collect their claim from the paper of this law. As I said, this law will have a positive impact on the development of the entire economy and will speed up investment in the economy. That's why the SVM MPs will vote for this bill in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31153	The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31154	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a bill on amendments to the Mortgage Act and at the very beginning of the JS parliamentary group in the Voting Day will certainly support this bill, because its adoption, on the one hand, will allow for a better position of creditors and, on the other hand, more protection of debtors, i.e. the owner of a mortgage loan. Let me remind you, in the world mortgage loans represent pillars of the credit system, let me say, these developed countries. There is almost no family in those countries that is not in charge of credit and, on the other hand, the loan is secured by a mortgage. The owners of companies in these same countries use the mortgage as the most legitimate form of collateral, i.e. security at entry into some debt-confidential relationship of greater monetary value. An important law, which was passed in 2005, with the expectation that it would release huge credit potential, since the practically expanded number of immovableities on which to place the mortgage, however, was slightly different in practice. Speaking of this law, I want to go back to that time before the law was passed, when you were supposed to get a mortgage, the value of the property had to be two to three times the amount of the loan. Economic practice in developed countries says the value of the mortgage should be 20% of the claims it covers. That's how much the mortgage costs are at a relative profit rate. I must say that at this point in time, we have this practice in place, with the fact that certain loans are in parity 1:1, let's say, they're military loans. Also, the law adopted in 2005 allowed the mortgage to be established on the immovable property or parts of the immovable property that have not yet been built, approximately 80% of the building's construction, meaning internal works. Practically, the family can get a loan for a house or apartment that has not yet been registered, and it does not have to pawn another property. This was a truly significant and positive newspaper of the current law, Minister. But I'd like to point out one illogicality, I deliberately mentioned here, if you could just listen to me Minister, I deliberately pointed this out to point out maybe one illogicality and maybe the problem that people have that ends up being an object. So I said that 80% of the building's construction is some guarantee that you can get a mortgage. However, people who finished the facility 100%, so they entered the process of obtaining a useful permit and thus could not register in the catastro until they finished, and that process, I must say, can last and extend, such people cannot get mortgage credit. So that's one thing we might need to solve in the next period, and I have no doubt we'll solve in the next period. It should also be said, as far as the catastra was concerned, in 2005, when the Law was passed, it was not as arranged as today, so it was causing problems in the recording of the mortgage. Today, the database and the records of immovableities and rights on them are publicly available to users, so the need for provisions governing central mortgage records has ceased. Especially since the enrolment in such a record has only girlative, speaking out of practice, has only a declarative character and does not represent the accuracy of the enrolment. Now, one of the greatest weaknesses of all time, still valid mortgage law, which, in the process of extrajudicial sales, does not exist an instrument of automatic eradication of all mortgages, after forced sale as is the case, for example, in a court sale. The consequences are this, and you just talked about it, the increased risk of banks to collect claims, resulting in a tightening of the terms of credit approval, an increase in interest rates, interest rates are not small, practically to the degree of unsustainability, an increase in requirements for additional security funds. On the other hand, credit users get expensive services, as I said, sometimes even beyond the cost-effectiveness limit, so a good part of them either gives up or is rejected. So, the new mortgage law, the lower rows, is automatically deleted after the sale of real estate and the buyer practically has no burden, meaning another good newspaper. The law is in line with European legislation and monitors contemporary business environments in Serbia. At the very end, I will point out once again that the adoption of this Law allows for a better position of creditors on the Serbian market, protection of debtors, i.e. the owner of mortgage immovableity, acceleration on the other hand, financial and economic activities in Serbia, especially construction and investment in the economy, which is very important. Then, the development and completion of one of the classic civil rights mechanisms. And lastly, I would like to say once again that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31155	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31156	Thank you. Respected presidents, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, the draft mortgage law amending the existing 2005 mortgage law is one of those laws that will strongly support the SDS, as it corrects Serbia's business ambition. Before 2005, mortgage business was defined with only seven members of the law on the basis of property legal relations. Under that law, the mortgage did not constitute an executive order, on the basis of which enforcement could be sought in the court proceedings, and this had to precede the withdrawal of a mortgage suit which provided the executive document. Of course, this two-degree exercise of mortgage rights has made this institute extremely unpopular, and of course it has been used insufficiently. That is why the 2005 Mortgage Act established a number of improvements in business in this sector. I would now refer to Article 4 of the basic law, given that in these amendments we did not foresee its change. Article 4 defines what can be the subject of a mortgage, I will read which are all possible stakes, therefore, immovable matter, property rights on land, construction building and the like, part of the immovable thing, co-opted share in the immovable matter, a particular part of the building on which there is property rights, meaning, apartment, business space or garage, land right, and especially the right to build, the right to prevent or dispose of state property, or social property. As sixth, the building facility, regardless of whether it has already been built, is subject to the issue of a judicial approval for construction. Dear Minister, at the very beginning, I would like to present and begin, before I commend the law, to present some of my questions and dilemmas and ask for some clarifications or perhaps some sort of intervention. In view of the fact that this Article 4 of the basic law has not been amended, the remaining possible mortgage items have been defined and it is said that the facility can be placed under mortgage in construction that has the right to be built. I think that there might be a consensus with the current Construction Planning Act, since the concept of construction approval does not exist, has been replaced by a building permit. It doesn't matter the change, we don't have the possibility of an amendment intervention, but it certainly doesn't fall into any real objection. I guess some whole law will regulate it all. I think there's one correction that's important that's supposed to follow, which is that in the list of what might be the subject of a mortgage is also social property, social property over land, I don't think there is any more as an institute. What's important to me and why I even mention Article 4 is that this law leaves the subject of a mortgage to be anything but an object or part of an object that doesn't have a license. You know that a large number of objects have been built since the 1960s here, to this day, and that for various reasons sometimes not quite so important, objects or parts of the facility do not have the necessary permits. What happens in practice, banks consider a business risk to be mortgaged by such objects and the law does not explicitly say that it can't, but it would be good if the law, in this case, would no longer be the law, but at least if some sublegal act or some interpretation that you give to define the possibility of mortgage giving and these types of objects. I think it will greatly expand the size of banks' business and allow additional numbers of citizens, which gives legal entities the opportunity to operate and invest. Of course, the law that is before us has brought a lot of improvements compared to the previous one. The most important changes are in redefining protection instruments on one side of the debtor, the owner of the facility and the owner who mortgaged his property, but also equally important and important to protect the lender. Because without strong bank protection, of course there's no credit, no business environment, no foreign and domestic investors. For that reason, on behalf of the SDPS, I would like to support the amendments to this law, but I would like to say a little bit from the position of architect and builder and express my views and what is giving us builders new optimism. Article 1 of this law defines two of the most important changes in me, and this article says – this law establishes a mortgage for security and payment of claims. Of course, the section relating to central mortgage records is deleted. What are these changes? It strengthens the protection of charges, which further motivates creditors to invest. The central mortgage records that defacto in practice did not work, since recording was not binding, the credibility of the data was not always at the highest level. Of course, that's then, let me say, and reserved and checking the status of the property, which is why that instrument wasn't used very much. At the same time, the digitisation of Katastre immovableity and its completion, which are of course happy and brought to an end, created a reliable base for checking the status of real estate and place of loading on buildings and land. What else is new about this law? There is a way to secure interest and which interest can be covered by a mortgage, which is very important. The law also stipulates that only the court can determine a reduction in the value of the mortgage, because we know that there have been many abuses. Of course, so far it's been determined by a court expert, now all in his honor and well-being. The existing Mortgage Act also introduced a procedure outside of court settlement, but it's not exactly when I say existing, I mean the law we're changing, so he hasn't defined as such the precise procedure outside of the court's real estate sale to protect the creditor, of course, who gave his money and without it and has no business. But, of course, he didn't protect the debtor well enough, because in practice we had unrealistic estimates, let's say, blackmailing property values. What situation do we now have as a consequence of this law, which, of course, we change today? Banks lend loans, estimated value can be unfair in two directions, for privileged ones, the estimated value of the property is in practice we know and has been several times more than real, of course the privileged debtor is in a position to unservice his interest to bring and compromise the business of the bank. On the other hand, ordinary citizens often estimate the value of their real estate significantly lower than market value. And of course, we know that, as a result, there was a bank collapse, sometimes planned bank collapse. Unpaid loans, of course, serve, who, of course, the budget, is therefore citizens, since the state has certain guarantees for funds. That is why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia supports changes in the law, and we are confident that it will strengthen creditor confidence in Serbia's new business environment, protect banks from new risks, encourage property owners and create a new trust in fair payment and, of course, all in case of inability to serve them, which nobody wants to do, and it is important that it protects citizens from new budget costs in the event of settlement of banks' costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31157	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31158	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, today is on the agenda of Parliament's session of amendments and addition of the Mortgage Act. The need for niveling the existing law is essential from this we welcome what we are discussing today. In the end, it was announced in the prime minister's exhibition during the government's election, but somehow there is an impression, at least reading these provisions of the law that they are largely legal-technical, which the minister himself announced in his explanation, and I get the impression that they are putting a lender or a trustee in the right plan. The existing law was passed in 2005 when a mortgage was arranged according to postulates that function in the modern world. Before that, the mortgage was arranged by the Law on Property Legal Relations of 1980, and I would say that at that time, in these circumstances, such social economic relations, the mortgage had some sort of persuasive meaning, because it was used as a synonym for burden. During the 10 years of application of the existing law, a number of changes occurred both in practice and in normative activity. First of all, the way and functioning of the executive procedure has been changed as a means of forced collection of claims. It also amended the Law on Preferred and Catastro with which the Mortgage Act should also be harmonised. In addition, a public record system was introduced. On the other hand, the socio-economic circumstances have changed significantly due to the global economic crisis, which some analysts say occurred due to the failure of the mortgage credit market. The principles and conditions on which the financial sector rests have been significantly changed, and the conditions for obtaining credit secured by mortgages have been tightened. In this connection, it should also be pointed out that the need for the precise arrangement of the mortgage institute is both the establishment of the mortgage and the collection of claims provided by the mortgage, created and due to the abuses that occurred in the banking sector. Today, more criminal proceedings are being conducted in our country against responsible persons in banking and financial institutions, as well as against those who took these loans and gave inadequate means of security. Some of them were provided with mortgages that are not chargeable today. As I understand from your explanation of the bill, the proposed changes should have multiple facts. On the one hand, to protect creditors and this seems to be by means of a precise definition of mortgage and payment procedure through the sale of mortgage immovableity. On the other hand, the proposed changes should protect debtors because they allow and require that the debtor is once again invited to pay off the debt, i.e. there is a possibility of selling the mortgage-provided immovableity. The ultimate goal, as I understand from your explanation, should be to accelerate financial activities, as you said, increase competition and transparency. However, one of the most important objectives of each trustee, participants in the business environment is to collect their claim. For this reason, the property of the debtor is crucial. The trustee, by logic of things, has no possibility and has no insight into the property of the debtor, nor can he narrow it down in available acts. As legal traffic is intense, the property situation of the debtor can significantly change at the time of the maturity of the claim on payment. The norms of material law should provide for institutes that can be prevented and provided for by the trustee. One of those institutes is certainly a mortgage that was created in ancient times. A mortgage is an institute that should be one of the safest means of security in legal practice because it allows a mortgage trustee to be charged even if other ordinary creditors cannot be charged. It doesn't matter when the mortgaged immovableity holds. It's actually a stock on immovable stuff. On this occasion, it should be pointed out that the banks have just requested an amendment to the existing Mortgage Act. With this in mind, it is important that more than 70% of the mortgages entered on the Agency for Business Languages website are entered in favour of banks. As a reason for their request, they stated that the number of immovableities on which a mortgage can be placed was extended and necessary to comply with the provisions of other laws of the Mortgage Act. Where an existing mortgage law has been adopted, it has been defined as a liability right to the immovable property which empowers the trustee that, if the debtor does not pay the debt or if another obligation that triggers the mortgage, it requires the payment of the claim secured by the mortgage of the value of the immovable property. It was then assessed as a good solution and a newspaper that the mortgage can also be placed on non-recorded immovable property because in Serbia there is still a large number of unlisted immovable property, as well as out-of-court registrations and sales of immovable property and the possibility of putting a mortgage on city-building land. Also approved was the mortgage register and a three to five-year-old short-term mortgage sale for three to six months. However, due to the problems encountered in practice, it was necessary to implement amendments to the Mortgage Act, which relate to simplifying the immovableity of immovable property first and foremost to those used for commercial leases. It was also necessary to impose a ban on the entry of mortgages and other burdens by enrolling the records of the mortgage sale, erasing the mortgage of the second and lower rows after the end of the non-judicial sale of immovable property, and the settlement of these creditors by the rules of settlement, then deleting the central mortgage records as an institution for which there is no longer the need for heresy completed the Katastar of immovableity throughout the territory. With that in mind, I would add that the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute is not satisfactory, not in my opinion, but in the opinion of the Citizens' Protector, because there are a number of complaints, as he assessed, to the second-degree body. Also, in practice, it proved to be bad that the rights of the lower order creditors are defined so that their mortgages remain inscribed, even though the immovableity is sold. This enables non-judicial sales of immovable property, so banks approach judicial sales, which unnecessarily burdens courts with large numbers of cases, increases costs to both creditors and debtors, and makes the whole system ineffective and unreliable. As the biggest weakness of the Mortgage Act, there is no instrument for automatic disposal of all mortgages after forced sale, such as in the case of a court sale, i.e. the right of the buyer to apply for the disposal of remaining mortgages or any other instrument which would allow the release of the sale of the property of the remaining entered mortgages. The consequences of that are double. Trustees are referred to judicial proceedings, which are significantly slower, the practice shows that they can last for more than a year, and on the other hand, a field is created for the abuse and deliberate entry of a lower-price mortgage by debtors to prevent trustees from selling mortgaged immovableity within a short period of time in the out-of-court procedure. Bad legal solutions have not contributed much to the growth of non-chargeable loans, but have certainly affected that more complicated cases are being resolved more slowly and more difficult. The importance of a good normative setting and the arrangement of the mortgage institute is also reflected in the problem that arose early this year, which hit more than 22,000 citizens who took loans in Swiss francs. For these people, no adequate solution has been found to date, on the one hand, and on the other hand, would be imposed by the transfer of credit to another currency. According to NBS, the total loans of the economy and the population related to the Swiss franc amount to about 1.1 billion francs, most of which, about a billion euros, relate to the population. It should also be pointed out that most of the provisions found today in this bill are the result of the need, as I said, of a more precise and different arrangement of debt-confidential relations and legal traffic of mortgage security. So to a large extent, we support these changes. We have pointed out some illogicalness in our amendments, compared to some of the amendments we have submitted, we want to suggest that it might be more comprehensive to keep existing solutions. Also, on this occasion I want to make some of my observations that require further explanation. We also present proposals, as I said, to improve and make a constructive contribution to this text. With that in mind, we don't understand, nor did we hear from the explanation, why there was an amendment to Article 9 of the existing law. According to the current definition, the mortgage agreement is a contract between the trustee and the debtor that serves as the trustee can collect his secured claim. So what the current law says is -- the mortgage agreement is a contract between the immovable property owner, the trustee to whom the immovable property owner commits, if the debt is not paid out of maturity, that the trustee collects his secured claim from the value of that immovable property, in a manner prescribed by law. The proposed change is the following - the mortgage agreement is a contract between the immovable property owner and the trustee which obliges the immovable owner to establish a mortgage in favour of the trustee in order to settle the security of the claim, in a manner prescribed by law. The essence of the mortgage agreement is to collect claims secured by mortgages. It is logical that the mortgage is based on a contract or on another form of mortgage. In this way, there is no real legal nature of the mortgage, as stated in the reasoning of the bill. Also, it is unclear why the intabuland clause is not in the original mortgage contract, but it is necessary for the clause to be intabulandi, as a mandatory mortgage contract, to now be in one additional document. In our opinion, it can only contribute to the public-recording system being favoured, because in this way they will actually charge an over or a soloisation of two documents, not one. Also, since you said, which we support, that the basis of the law to introduce competition is transparency and to speed up procedures, we want to show you that there is a discrepancy between the draft mortgage laws with the provisions of the law on enforcement and security. Although it is a non-judicial sale due to the second attempt to sell, the Mortgage Act provides for a maximum period of 120 days for the organisation of another sale, while the Law on Implementation and Security, although it is a court sale, is at least 15 days and no more than 30 days. So we're simply pointing to these illogicalities, since you said that one of the postulates is the adoption of laws and the acceleration of procedures. Of course, in the discussion in particular, we will point out some other things that we have highlighted in the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31159	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31160	I thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers, representatives of the ministry, distinguished fellow MPs, I will point out at the very beginning that the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act. In the SPS parliamentary group, we will not repeat as a matrix what has already been made regarding the affirmation of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Mortgage Act, nor has it ever been the manner of us, nor will we now, to convince the text of the law that is already in the material that we have obtained. Therefore, dear ministers, we will point only to what we believe to be really qualitatively better solutions than the current text of the law, and we will also point to some of our dilemmas that we have responded to amendments, which we are confident that you will be paying attention and evaluating and, ultimately, adopt them, because there are also certain criticisms about certain parts of the law that we consider to be better. First of all, what is undeniable is that this law contributes to harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Serbia with EU legislation, especially in this matter that we are talking about, it is undeniable to increase the level of legal certainty, including the material security of transport participants, it is undeniable that it seems to be a far greater degree of protection for both creditors and debtors alike, it is undeniable that in this way it can, but I repeat, contribute to a better investment process in the Republic of Serbia, and thus reviving business activities at a higher level. What seems to us in the procedural and legal sense of the words of good, respected ministers, is the fact that finally accessing the unification of judicial practice and practice in general, given that the systemic solution that you have cited in the proposed amendments and additions, that the assessment of the value of mortgaged immovableity is carried out by an authorised judicial assessor, i.e. an expert or other authorised appraisal, is certainly a solution that should have long ago been brought to life in legal acts, especially in the Law on the Mortgage, the Law on Enforcement and Security and other laws governing this matter. Finally, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia has made it clear unequivocally clear that the assessment cannot be made by the tax administration, nor by any other institution, other than the authorised assessors, which are primarily experts and licensed assessors. It is also a good solution in the proposed changes and additions to protection, and this is enhanced protection, immovable property owners and immobilisers, of course if it is not the same person, from the conduct of mortgage creditors when they are given the right to access mortgaged immovableity in order to protect their right to mortgaged immovableity. 1 Why? Because it is common in life, therefore, it is vital that the conduct of both the owner and third parties in relation to the mortgaged immovableity cannot always be undermined by the conduct of a good host, but rather by the opposite. It is therefore the right of the mortgage trustee to allow him access to mortgage immovableity, in any case, the right to be affirmed, which should be praised as a good system solution, but can only be allowed until we cross the border when we can talk about the abuses of a mortgage trustee to the persons in possession of mortgage immovableity. Why am I saying this? Because mortgage property can be leased and may be servants. So these are persons whose mortgaged immovableity is given to servants over a long period of time. They are undoubtedly security holders of mortgaged immovableity. In most cases there are legal holders. The law states that access rights cannot be granted to a mortgage trustee in the period from 22:00 to 07:00 hours. The question is, how and how? Are you entering the mortgaged immovableity? So, I don't want these issues to be trivial issues, but they're in practice and how important they are because they're as life issues, or living circumstances. Is he going into the rooms to look at the rooms? Will this result in the possible disturbance of the state figure in the possession of mortgage property? In any case, the right to a state, and to an uninterrupted state, is a systematic solution to the Law on the Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations. Perhaps in this direction it was better to define what the mortgage trustee’s access to mortgage immovableity means and within what limits it can benefit. I am convinced that in this direction, you will eventually react by sublegal acts in case they happen in practice. What is also good, it is good that the law slowly complies with the provisions of the Law on Public Registration and with the provisions of the Law on the approval of signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts. But here we have to react to a provision which, unfortunately, is probably an error, defined by being contrary to the provisions of the Public Note Act, and this is about the fact that the mortgage agreement cannot be concluded in alternative form. Here the Law on Public Records is clear and implicit. The Public Note Act says the mortgage agreement, as well as the publishing statement of a unilateral mortgage, is concluded exclusively in the form of a public-book record. So, not in the form of so-called. IMO Res. And here we have responded with the amendment, and we think there is no reason, that there is no single reason, and especially not legally justified, that this amendment is not accepted, or that it is not respected and thus correcting a single failure that has occurred in this law. One of the dilemmas among us in the SPS parliamentary group has also appeared when it comes to powers given to a third party representing one or more mortgage creditors, or the authority given to one of several mortgage creditors to represent their interests in the settlement of claims provided by the law, i.e. mortgage. There's a logical and life-threatening question here. The third person appears as some sort of agent. How will this third party equally and evenly represent several mortgage creditors, when the trusts are literally fighters in one arena that comes down to the protection of each of them's interests individually? So how will a third person represent both my interests as a mortgage trustee and my friend Mrkonjic, or anyone else who would appear in the status of a mortgage trustee? Well, he can't, because we have conflicting interests. After all, my interest is to be legally, not against the law, affirming my right to collect claims before any other mortgage trustee. How, then, are we going to establish equality, especially in a situation where we have the authority given to one of the mortgage creditors, who in any case is in some kind of conflict with other mortgage creditors? What we find most controversial in the proposed amendments and additions to this law is the amendment of Article 31. I ask you, Your Honor, to give special attention to this article, to this member, who has been proposed, because a provision has been introduced that should not be a provision of the law procedurally and legally. She says – the appeal will be respected if the debtor or owner of the mortgaged immovableity along with the complaint of delivery and written evidence, and this: the claim does not exist, the mortgage does not exist, the claim has not arrived for payment or the debt has been paid, etc. Dear Ministers, you cannot legally give a warrant that a second-degree authority will decide by appeal. What would it look like to say in the Law of Prosecution or in criminal proceedings – the appeal will be respected if, in addition to the appeal, it is done, that too? Then why do we need a second-degree organ or a second-degree court? Moreover, this provision must not exist for another reason in a procedural and legal manner. Where a mortgage trustee wishes to make an entry for the sale notice for his benefit, that request shall be subject to the assessment of the first-degree body, or register. What's the score? Assessments of the regularity of that request, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, of the justification of that request. If the request is messy, then he'll throw himself away. In this way, we will achieve the efficiency of the system, achieve the efficiency of the process. We will achieve what your ministry has set as the goal of this law, which is a transparent and rapid process of settling the demand for mortgage creditors. How is the justification of this law assessed? The justification of this law is assessed precisely by establishing that the claim exists, that the mortgage exists, that the claim has not arrived for payment and that the debt has not been paid. But if the debt is not paid, it's a burden of proof on the debtor himself. Therefore, respecting ministers, what has been stated as a warrant for the appeal is absolutely unacceptable because these are procedural legal assumptions that the request could even be entered into legal traffic, that it could be acted at all at the request. Because how is it even possible to get to the sale of mortgaged immovableity and to ask for a record of the sale of mortgaged immovableity without prior to that the claim does not exist? Well, it's just the fact that the mortgage is inscribed. It is said that there is no mortgage. How is there no such thing as a mortgage agreement, which is otherwise confirmed by a public-recorded record, recorded? So how do we even talk about whether to respect the appeal or not? The demand hasn't arrived for payment. Well, if it's due, then we don't need security. Why would they provide him? For this reason, we in the SPS parliamentary group believe that indeed this Article 31 must be restructured and corresponded to what means real, logical and practical application of procedural and legal solutions. Also, what we believe is that the proposed amendments to the laws stand, and in no case is in the spirit of constitutional solutions and legal provisions of the Republic of Serbia, and particularly not in accordance with other provisions of the law, is the exclusion of the possibility of a administrative dispute against a second-degree solution. If we rule out the possibility of a administrative dispute, then we restrict the right of the party to use a legal remedy that is allowed by both the Constitution and the law. Well, then we'd have to delete Article 180. The State Prime Minister and Catastro Act, a respected minister, which has just said that a party dissatisfied with the final decision by the authorities in the administrative procedure has the right to a administrative dispute. So here we are dealing with administrative procedure, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, administrative procedure. The end of the administrative procedure does not deny the possibility for the party to continue the proceedings in the administrative dispute, nor should it deny it, as the constitutional rights of the party would also be violated in this way. That is why we have responded with the amendment in the SPS parliamentary group, believing that this way of systematicisation in the procedural and legal sense of the word should not exist. What also causes certain dilemmas, and has already been heard in the discussion that preceded this discussion, are deadlines. The three-month deadline is controversial and we will be in a situation of unequal court practice. The deadline in the law of execution and security is a month between one and the other sales. If we're going to the efficiency of the procedure, then it's really three months too long. It also seems to us, dear ministers, that it's too long for 18 months to wait to make a removal of the record if it's a mortgage sale. Why 18 months? Well, I gave some money there and my money stands and now I have to wait 18 months to clear the record. We in the SPS parliamentary group believe that this does not contribute to the efficiency of what involves the mortgage sale process, i.e. the sale of mortgaged immovableities and the settlement of creditors who had secured the claim precisely by that mortgage. What's certainly true and what we're all going to agree on here, and so are you, is that the percentages that are related to the market value of immovableity are always half-life. In the SPS, we think that an extremely good solution is that you're going towards an affirmation of extrajudicial sales, or extrajudicial settlement, and that's good for creditors. That's good, Your Honor, for the banks. Whether I have animosity to banks because of the various circumstances that are happening to us or bank affirmations, banks are in a huge problem as creditors, especially since more than 90% of the claims are secured, these are claims where banks appear as creditors, at the same time, creditors. Indeed, by this law, which is commendable and which is why the irrevocable support of the Ministry is in this direction, that banks are given the opportunity to collect their claims through extrajudicial settlement. But we have those problems that happen in practice in a way that simply, all of this that is affirmative can lead to a problem. The question arises: is it even possible to achieve 90%, as the lowest value of the estimated value in non-judicial settlement? Is it even possible? Rarely, but theoretically or practically, we can accept that it is possible. Of course, again in favour of banks would be good if something like this were to be realized. But here, too, the percentages are somewhat uneven. In the law on enforcement and security in the first public sale, the initial price is 60% of the estimated value of immovable property. And what's happening to us, Your Honor? We have abuses, because no one goes shopping when 60% of the estimated value. If my house is mortgaged and is worth 100,000 euros, its initial price at first public sale is 60,000 euros. No one's going to show up at that first public sale, waiting for another. Why is he waiting for another one? Because 30% of the estimated value is and we're entering the abuse zone that's linked to the fact that someone buys 30% immediately, and then resells and that's how it benefits. These abuses will not be able to be eliminated even in these percentages that are listed in the proposed changes and additions, but it is something that we must objectively come to terms with and look for some system solutions that will prevent, prevent and eventually reach the goal that implies the highest degree of protection. Finally, speaking of dilemmas, which I won't talk about much, since it will be much more competent to talk about by my distinguished colleague and friend Susana Spasojevic, the question is raised, the respected ministers, why this law does not cover objects that are registered under special conditions, so on. "The Great Law" or the law proposed by the ministry while Minister Velimir Ilic headed the ministry? It is about the real estates that have a special legal regime, which are under a special legal regime and are entered in the register of cadastras, but these immovableities in these proposed amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act are not available. The question arises - why, and it has been announced that they should be? In any case, amendments have been submitted in this direction. We are convinced that these amendments should be carefully considered because they are achieved, according to us in the SPS, a far greater degree of quality of this law, and we will undoubtedly support it and vote for this law in the voting day, for those reasons that you pointed out, which we maximumly support, that I would not repeat them because, as I said, repeating the same story does not lead us to anything, and indeed the basic goal that is to be achieved is to achieve -- and transparency, and efficiency, and protection of debtors, and protection of creditors. That's why you have the support of the SPS and the SPS parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31161	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31162	I thank you for a whole series of very useful suggestions. I would like to ask you to propose these solutions in the form of an amendment. We will be happy to accept all the improvements in the text. I just want to take the opportunity to point out that we are some of the formulas that you have just looked back on and that you have commented on from the text of the existing law. So this particular formulation, I completely understand your objections, is taken literally from the pre-last paragraph of the existing law, and the appeal will be respected. We've taken that text and I accept your argument, but that's not what we've added, that's what we've taken care of. Therefore, we will look at, I think, in fact, the formulation should say that the complaint will be considered or taken into consideration if the conditions set out there are met. Thank you very much for the suggestions we received from the other MPs. We will be very happy to consider all this and take everything as possible amendments to the amendment of the text of the Law amending the Mortgage Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31163	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31164	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Minister, the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group will vote as I see it, and all the other MPs' groups for amending this law because we think that the solutions offered are better than the existing situation, and since we belong to that MP group that she thought, since the establishment of our political party, that the entire communist system should be changed, it is really uncomprehensible that in 1980 we had the Law on the basis of property-legal relations, that only in 2005 did we adopt the first law to treat this area, that it was very badly arranged, that it was a very important area for the functioning of the financial sector for foreign investments, for the security of debtors who took credit, for the security of the banking system. I remember that the respected professor Dragoljub Stojanović, who, of course, doctored civil rights matter in Germany, thought at a time when I studied that they couldn't possibly explain to the world our legal system, how someone could have had the right to use it, didn't own the land, how to provide the mortgage with that kind of stock, how that later all, which all the problems created in the court procedure, in practice, etc. Simply, comrades and friends who have had one project called socialism since 1945 have made one caucus project in all areas, including this area. The project failed, and then the comrades and friends, with the creation of a multiparty system, thought about the other parties and that poor system they created used for robbery privatisation and for numerous abuses as far as credit is concerned. There were these abuses, and at a time now promoted as a time when safe and safe lived, in the time of Joseph Broz Tito, you remember those famous green plans, etc. Citizens were massively on the political line getting loans to raise agricultural households. Instead, the house is up, the house is up. Did anyone answer? It's not. We used to call it "Alybe's straw." The state property was running as it could and could have continued since the '90s. So it continued after October 5th. Seventy, eighty or 90% of mortgages are bank mortgages. Foreign-owned banks in Serbia operate as domestic legal entities. And, pay attention to our citizens often say – you can see that these foreigners have high interest rates, and at the same time banks with state capital or with private capital of our origin also have the same interest rates. For what? In view of the uncertainty of business, due to the general environment, but you will notice that no foreign-capital bank has bankrupted, nor has it had affairs that these banks had in which the state had primarily either a majority stake or placed its political representatives in the governance bodies. What was going on? Credits were granted with inadequately secured claims. The estimated value of the claim was five, 10, 15, 20, 100 times as much as the real market price, and of course it was systematically done, again on the political line, to suck up state capital. Of course, these banks failed, and yet the state that allowed the robbery then took over the bank's liabilities. So, in some ways, all Serbian citizens including the MPs are in this way due to a criminal system set up by the state. Here, today, all Serbian citizens must pay off the debts made by comrades and friends who have come to terms with all parties. Now, whether it was a kingdom or some other system before 1941, it wasn't like that. The mortgage was sacred. The court's decision one through one, there was little litigation of trust in the rule of law, there was trust in banks. Today the banks, and no one has said this out of value assessment regardless of what free will the contractors have their own appraisers who can and most often one immovableity that the stock for the bank's credit estimated at a multiple higher amount, so it's only a threat to the citizens. And if, at the same time, since banks usually offer their general terms that people find it difficult or difficult to understand, then they go with interest that are truly catastrophic. And someone who takes a loan counting on paying for a smaller part of how it originally introduces itself to him is actually going to the era. What is good that this law promotes, of course, as about previous laws, that kind of freedom to negotiate interest rates and what is legally tightened interest only in situations where it is not agreed. Secondly, I was someone who promoted the system of the central mortgage register, regardless of the fact that the register was neither reliable nor there was a obligation to register all publishing rights. Perhaps because of the general ambience in our society not only through this law, because with the amendments to this law they will have to change a series of laws that treat this area, perhaps in my opinion it was necessary to strengthen the role of the central register of publishing rights. For what? Well, simply because of the fact that I, too, was engaged in a lawyer, I met countless times to place on one of these same immovableities several hostage rights, or more mortgages, in order to show up several trustees who simply wonder where one immobility suddenly appears to be burdened with multiple mortgages, which produced, of course, along with the legal uncertainty a large number of court disputes. What is good is that you promote extrajudicial reconciliation, which is, of course, a practice in the world and we really believe that it will lead to a smaller number of litigation disputes and a easier solution to all the issues in the extrajudicial procedure. Secondly, it is good that an agreed solution, i.e. a reduction in the value of mortgage immovableity, can only be done below 90% by a court with the opinion of an appropriate expert. The assessment of our parliamentary group is that since the system is really changing seriously, with the amendment of this law fulfilling another promise made by Prime Minister Vukic in his exposé that, since it has changed to a significant extent, the Law on Executive Procedure, that there are private perpetrators, that the Law on Public Registration has been passed, that the system in many of its fields is seriously changing, that by changing the laws that treat this area will strengthen legal certainty, because investors really do when they come into a country, and we know that this investment need does not exist only in Serbia, it exists everywhere in the world, everyone offers all kinds of conditions just for someone to come to them, invest and open up a job. We think it will really start with the application of these laws, and I say by changing the following laws that will attract foreign investors, because this is a very important area for which every investor is before investing in our country interested to see how it is regulated. We think that really, with the amendments to this law, it will speed up the collection of claims, improve the position of creditors on the market, that it is a good thing that the trustee can have additional security if the debtor unwittingly responds to the accumulated immovableity destroys it, reduces its value, otherwise behaves unwittingly. It is good that the warnings are now sent to mortgage creditors, the principal mortgage trustee and second and third-row creditors. The assessment of our parliamentary group is that the good effects of this law will indeed, above all, serve to attract foreign investors. One more thing, Minister, I'm just going to use your presence to point out something about investment again. We as MPs daily, like you in the ministries, receive correspondence, letters from citizens who are often very meaningful, point to major investment problems. Yesterday I received a letter from one of our entrepreneurs who worked in Moscow for 20 years, acquired enviable capital, invested in building ethno objects and tourism facilities in the village of Gornja Kravarica in Dragacheva. He simply asked me as a MP, even invited the government or representatives of the government to tour these facilities and to see how much capital was invested there. On the other hand, it is the jurisdiction of the municipality, but it is the jurisdiction of the Republic, it simply has a problem with access roads and infrastructure, and it says it cannot possibly be for guests, primarily from the Russian Federation to explain why the roads are in such a bad state of impact. Otherwise, foreign tourists are very satisfied with both services and ambience and all these things. So what is also a recommendation from the European Commission that not only treats this area that the co-operation of state authorities must be much, much stronger and co-ordination much better. I think, in this part, that it should not be left to local self-government that such people who invest everything for patriotic reasons in our country should be held as little water on the palm of their hands and if the municipality can't solve a problem of this kind to solve this problem and involve the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31165	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31166	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, distinguished fellow MPs, amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act are passed at the request of the banks. The Association of Banks, representatives of business banks in Serbia, speak openly, I have here a dozen of their statements. So I'm really going to watch as soon as I can talk to you today, and more in the direction that citizens understand what's going on here. So, respected citizens, banks are asking to bring changes and supplement this law so they can get to your real estate easier. Because a lot of people are upset about the fact that there are some lower mortgages that can be signed down, so it makes it difficult for them to do so, and the courts are squandering themselves with unnecessary procedures, etc. So, respected citizens today's majority in this hall and each other within that majority, who declares themselves to be a left, will vote to re-protect the business bank in Serbia, and that you in one easy and more efficient way, in addition to the request of the bank association, perhaps the IMF, who knows this, that this thing is simplified and that things are resolved in a way that will speed it up as much as possible. And if, we have clear indicators, facts that tell us what our situation is in both the real estate market and banking business and all the overall economic-socially devastated situation in this country. The basic changes relate to further simplifying immovableity, especially those used for commercial purposes through leases, erasure of third party consent provisions, etc. The Mortgage Act defines the mortgage as a pledge right to real estate authorised by the trustee that if the debtor does not pay off the debt or if there is a breach of the other obligation, it requires the payment of the claim secured by a mortgage from the value of the immovable property. I think we've got a deadline here, we've got an out-of-court real estate sale. This law made up by bankers, so you're their exponent and government and MPs of the majority, is about simplifying the advocate of immovableity, especially those used for commercial purposes, as I said. It is proposed to delete the provisions on the consent of a third party, the direct immobiliser, as an integral part of the publishing statement. A ban on the recording of other mortgages and burdens under the recording of mortgage sales, the erasure of the second and lower-row mortgages on the end of the out-of-court sale of immovable property, and the settlement of those creditors by the rules on settlement, and the erasure of the central mortgage records, etc. is also provided for. Mr. Dugalić, one of the faces of the banking oligarchy and the green banking system in Serbia, says: "serving the right of low-level mortgage creditors is the main stumbling block in the application of this Act, because it directly conditions the application of the Law on enforcement and security, ow, ow, ow, my God, we must go to court. That's terrible. We can't take it. We want to get to your real estate as soon as possible. That pretty slows down the billing process. “ That’s what Mr. Dugalic says. I'm really on my way. Here, that's the essence, respected citizens. Well, we can't mess around with laws anymore, with court procedures, with stumbling stones, let us get to you as soon as we can, because, my God, in Serbia, credits and a pawn right to real estate just puts rich people in it, they think. However, practice disproves it. Our state and government has given everyone, not this one, and the previous government, to be fair, to every trustee, every lender, the right to charge their claim for the entire assets of the debtor. We have a country that cares about creditors, in this state the bank and the creditor can't fail. In this country, they are absolutely “the holy cow. ” They can take, they can sell, they can evaluate and they will essentially destroy the standard of living and position of our citizens. Of course, then we come, because the creditor in Serbia can't crack and that, of course, releases any pressure to charge us, rudely, unsuitable interest in this country, which I believe should be restricted by law, as well as by eradicating the hidden costs of banks that destroy Serbian citizens. Since you haven't solved it either, and you haven't solved the problem in the Swiss francs, I think it should be tied to the euro course on the day the loan was taken and so be resolved. We now have a new Mortgage Law, which reads: “A mortgage trustee can also demand his due demand for peace, first of all from the value of mortgaged immovableity and then from other debtors’ assets. ” At the same time from the value of the mortgaged immovableity and from the debtor's assets or first of all from the debtor's assets, and only then from the fidelity of immovableity. I'm trying to point out those negative sides, speeding up the process, efficiency, going out to meet the investor, as we've heard, although I don't see the connection. An investor, a magic word that will solve everything for us in Serbia. Everything. You give him 10,000 euros from the budget per job, he gives a poor employee's salary, no union, who dares to fly out immediately, work 15, 18 hours a day, and now you explain to me the relationship between the mortgage and that man. The bond of mortgage between the bank and the mortgage of Serbian citizens in the next, we give you loans that we know you can't repay, we give to businessmen, sometimes from the former government, and now from this government, which we know you can't return. There's no real security. Banks are being saved by the money of the Republic of Serbia's budget bonds, "Development Bank", "Universal Banks", "Agrobanka" still has them and not every one of those banks was during that government, because I know that you will get caught, but at this point there is no importance. At this point, why do you continue with this practice? You're continuing with that practice, and you're doing it deep. Recently, credit was given to a businessman close to a few million-euro government, everyone knows he can't come back, there's no way he's coming back, no collateral, nothing, and everybody knows that, who's doing it. Maybe you don't know yourself. Otherwise, we have a problem, as you know, an esteemed colleague that banks in Serbia are unrealistically showing their balances, completely unrealistic, and that will soon have to be resolved, and we will have to realistically see how much banks really have assets, how much passive. I read in one text yesterday, the value of the bad loans in the banking books in Serbia ranged from five to 12 billion euros. Today in Serbia, after three years of your authority, five to 12 billion euros. It's been before. I expected you to at least fix something in this country, and you're nothing, you're just spoiling it. Five to 12 billion euros and that's a conservative estimate. So it's an optimistic estimate that it's so much. Business is becoming increasingly difficult for banks, and at one point it can easily happen to break. Bank directors deliberately keep their haired data to make the best impression of their home offices abroad. Chuck, it is known that the director of a bank, whose queen in the EU opposed such behaviour, recently approved a million euro loan, without any guarantee, that is what I said in beautiful eyes. In beautiful eyes, one famous Belgrade face. That's how they write the paper. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: One party, which is getting smaller, is based in Kronska. No, it's the guy who's from your party, who can't repay that loan right now, because his firm is in catastrophic condition, bad. All that stuff you said before, and there's no need to yell, I hear you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: The seat is in Kronska, you who took credit in beautiful eyes. No, the seat is in what's called, because you have more seats, I don't know where your seat is anymore, maybe in Vronjka Banja. You continue with this bad practice, you give your comrades credit, you close banks, citizens, after they pay, you facilitate the collection of mortgages, you know that in Serbia no one can even pay the bill, not the war on credit. Cheaper are real estate, everyone wants to sell them, no one has to buy them, even at low prices, the market cares and the construction industry is a palace of 40%, yes, and the government, according to me and it is seen in this law, only cares about oligarchy and banks, only large capital, and we have heard that in these exhibitions. Nobody said anything about debt rights, nobody said anything, you're just talking about creditors and creditors, the market and investment, and there's nothing to do with each other, anywhere, to talk about whether construction land - city land will now be able to convert, I understand that you're talking about, talk about the system of permits, and I would understand that. Like this, it's phrases, gentlemen. Otherwise, I want to commend the amendment to Article 35, which prohibits the sale of immovable property below 60% of its value, but this is a fundamental exception in the text of the law because the banks essentially wrote this law. It's the basis of fiscal discipline, that's what you said in the interpretation of the law, why discipline only for citizens who owe? Why weren't the banks more cautious when granting the loan? Why are they esculating any responsibility or any payment? Why are they always now and tomorrow going to think exclusively of interest and their profits and interest rates, is the uncharging loans jeopardising the banking system in Serbia, respected ministers? What percentage of mortgage loans are unaccountable and do you have that knowledge? I know you're not a direct address, but maybe you know and can it affect and threaten our financial system, because there are various speculations in the public, but I really don't think we should let citizens save business banks again, which block economic growth and employment by greening interest, there's a connection? The potential for building industry growth is something you mention and you've been talking about for three years, from apartments for, I don't know, 380 euros squares of which there was nothing, I'm not going to mention the chip factory, the airline parts, of which there's also nothing. I don't want to mention that Al Ravafed and Mubadala remained stories and unsupervised fields in Vojvodina, I don't want to talk about it, but I want to talk about the fact that we have essentially fallen into the details of the construction industry and that in Serbia today many of the apartments want to sell, there's no one to buy them, and the prices have fallen drastically, and they're just going to fall. My question is, how will the banks and even through this procedure that will facilitate their procedure to provide themselves with some tsar? Because they are rooted in their work of greed. Without greed, there's no capitalism, and without credit, there's no profit, that's what it's about. They'll keep eating until they eat themselves. The problem is that they will eat Serbian citizens along with them. It is quite clear that without wages and pensions, there is no payment power, and since you cut wages and pensions, there is no market, there is no higher collection of income, so there is no purchase of apartments. Citizens are afraid of existence, so little anyone thinks about buying an apartment and isn't ready for new credit adventures. If you can deny me, give me an impressive number of newly taken loans from citizens in Serbia, because this would be proof of your faith in the stability and reforms you are conducting. They're gone because there's less faith in your empty stories. Real estate prices and never a worse situation in the construction of new apartments confirms this thesis. So, respected citizens, another legislative proposal that implements the will of people and beyond this Assembly, another legislative proposal in which, as bad copyists, we wear five larger numbers of clothing, we look at ourselves in the mirror, and we think that we are Napoleon, that we are very large, and in fact, as a government and state, we are sad, sad copies of a Western world, and what is worst, everything that is not right we are doing directly against our citizens. Dear citizens, this law could be called "the tin Age". This is "a tin Age", a respected citizen, except he has gold, has Chinese women. This era will be much easier to alienate your property and make mortgages much faster to fluctuate with much less obstacles, according to Mr. Dugalić, and in a much easier way to bring us to the edge of any lack of funds, any capital. The goal is to have just that kind of capitalism, brutal, peripheral, grammatical, and the worst that can exist. The text of this law confirms it. I hope the Ministers that no explanation of the effectiveness, no explanation of the dynamics of the market, no explanation of the abolition of courts as unnecessary obstacles can essentially erase the fact that, with the help of the amendments to this law, it comes out absolutely in the face of business bank requirements on the one hand and on the other hand it is completely simplified, it speeds up the process of obtaining mortgage property, which are given as pledges. Someone explain to me how this will affect citizens' interest, and on the other hand, unreally lend loans to your friends from the authorities who evaluated halls at three, four, five million euros each, they don't cost more than 150,000 euros, and now the banks book it as a market value security. Who's gonna take that down now? There's nothing else you can say except to talk about what happened three years ago. You've been in power for three years, pumping prices, asking around. What are you talking about, man? What are you talking about? You cannot yell at me as a people's messenger – what are you talking about? (Zoran Babic, from the scene: Who was estimating that? Who was estimating that? Auto-projection for everything you've done in the framework of Agrobank, Development Bank. There's talk, there's talk. ) Please, here you go. You're a bit of an early colleague, but the prime minister hasn't arrived yet, so you have yet to show yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31167	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31168	So my basic question is -- explain to me the situation, if you have information, answers to these questions that I asked, how do banks function, what is their real assets and passports, how is this going to affect citizens, how are they going to affect the real estate market, how are they going to affect the modality of lending for immovable property, and what does this mean specifically for people who gave the mortgage to buy themselves a house or apartment, and how is it going to be done? But that's why the principle is introduced that even a non-rescribed immovableity can be used in this sense. Veroljub Arsic, from the post: Now can. ) Of course it can, but you promised to legalize it so you didn't do it, but you did it to the bank before it got to the real estate, you ran right away to do it. Why didn't you legalize Serbia so far? Serbia has not been legalized under you and has fallen further, that is. Of course, previous practices can't get a positive assessment, but people realize that it's no longer an excuse for anyone. You've been in power for three years, do something. I encourage you to do that, of course you do it based on your policies, programs and ideologies. It's the opposite of what I stand for, but do something. All you started didn't finish and under you Serbia is unfortunately an unfinished state. Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. ) (Vladimir Pavićevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31169	Here's Pavić, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovicu, respected Minister Vujovic and honored guests, I assume from the Ministry of Finance, are two members of our Rules of Procedure injured, I think, dear Mr Arsenovic. First, Article 108, since the MPs of the SNS, which was dominated by Mr Babic, Martinovic and Arsic, during the speech of other MPs, Mr Arsenovic, are constantly getting that speaking MP, which in this case was Mr Borislav Stefanovic. Your duty, I think, was, Mr. Arsenovic, to respect... (Alexander Markovic, from the scene: You are a lawyer. ) Here we go again, dear gentlemen, Article 108. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it was your obligation to intervene and to instruct the Members of the People's Parliaments of the SNS, that this was not appropriate conduct in the National Assembly. Second thing, Article 156. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsenovicu, I think it would be appropriate to have Mr. Selakovic here on behalf of the Government today, since this is matter, respected gentlemen, which is part of the justice ministry's jurisdiction. We have been listening here this morning to the debate between respected gentlemen and Mr. Neđa Jovanovic, for example, and the other gentlemen and Mr. Stefanovic, who, Mr. Jovanovic, have, in particular, observed from a legal point of view this amendment and the addition of the law, and then today we are here in the principle debate, Mr. Arsenović, left behind for those of the government's representatives, which concerns the part contained in this bill, and then I think the citizens who are following this debate and we who are sitting here and we are participating in it cannot get a complete picture of what is the meaning of the proposed amendments, Mr. Arsenovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31171	Thank you. As far as pitching goes, you're partly right, and that's why I intervened. I don't know if you noticed. So, I agree with you and anyone who responds to a dropout from the scene, it's not allowed in business, but simply, it's like that here and you can't solve it, and we need to get a little past it as well as we know and know it. As far as an authorised representative is concerned, it's not a matter of the chairman, the matter of the Parliament, the matter of the government. She has also appointed Mr. Selakovic to attend. However, the government has decided to just come to Minister Vujovic. So I think it's in line with the Rules of Procedure and I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day? No, I don't. Does anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Babic has the same violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31172	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, article 107, have been injured, and I know you couldn't have affected that. I think this is a tall building, the House of the National Assembly, a place where we'll talk about exact data, not cheerleaders. Using argument - everyone knows it and it's said and someone out there is extremely unserious to place a burden on the government of Alexander Vukic and SNS. I believe that a colleague who spoke before me, or before his colleagues Pavicevic, had used public information funds, had used newspapers that were three, four, five years old, so he could look at how DS was taking loans, as he said – without any guarantees, with his hands in his pockets in "Development Bank", from "Development Bank" with all the money bags, without any guarantees. Well, he probably spoke and read the media that transmitted the loans to Agrobanks at several million euros, and was guaranteed halls, pantominations, sheds, which could not settle any hundredth of those guarantees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31173	Mr. Granny, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31174	Here, I'm done, one sentence. You had to ask a colleague of Stefanovic when he said so. But I'll tell you, the SNS has been in power for three years, right, and we're not running away from responsibility, but you, gentlemen of the DS, have been in power for 12 years, in Vojvodina and 15 years, you've done nothing, go home.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31175	I just need to intervene. I still think this is one way of misusing the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it was about you having a replica. I think you could have used it one other way, not through a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask if you want the Assembly to plead? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. ) The Rules of Procedure shall take precedence. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31176	Here, you saw, articles 106, 107. And you said it yourself, except your appeal always, even though you do it with good faith and good intentions, ends up on it. My colleague insists on misusing the Rules of Procedure, reports after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then strikes a replica, completely undisturbed, two minutes, just this sentence. Go home, he tells me he's hurting the Rules of Procedure. Now imagine what I might say to him, and then you will say to me: "It is not right, don't do it." I appeal to you, when such injuries happen to the Rules of Procedure, which are caused by yours, let me say, trying to give everyone an equal chance, then be consistent and if you can react a little sooner and in a way to turn off the microphone, as Mr. Becic does to the opposition. This really doesn't make sense, because now none of us have the right to give the replica to Mr. Babic because he made his vision of what happened five years ago. He still says - go home. You say nothing about it – it's not right, you're a little abused, no more. He says, "Okay." Seven minutes later, there he is again, and that's how we have to put up with it and listen to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31177	Thank you. I can only say, from this place it seems very difficult to please everyone and impossible. If you're a little intolerant, it's not good, if you cut, it's not good. I'm trying to get this to go to some normal waters, with respect for needs and opportunities to take someone out, to say, out of the agenda. Do you want to make a statement? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: No. You don't want to. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Granny, but use the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31178	Article 108, Mr. Chairman. If you don't have an earache that a fellow MP will express himself as another MP of the people, was it any of your colleagues and colleagues, with – we must listen to it, so how long will it take to be more demeaning and insulting by the MPs of the former regime? We're called cattle, we're called garbage, scum, tempers. Now what? Then someone here complains about being demeaned, complains that he doesn't have the same status. Did I just talk here about something that's been said out there for someone there, and all that on the burden of the Government of the Republic, or was I talking about exact, accurate data, about a DS loan they didn't have any guarantees for, which they got on the political support of Bojan Pajtic of the "Vojvodine Development Bank"? Did I talk about the cobwebs? Did I talk about something out there, someone close to the authorities? No, I speak very accurately and very precisely. Because of such loans, because of such an irresponsible relationship, I did not say – go home, well, the citizens said go home. The citizens will say tomorrow in Vojvodina – go home. Why are you afraid of the voice of the people? Twelve years old, 15 years old, not this country...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31179	Please, Grandma...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31180	... Neither Borkov nor mine, to treat it now as if we'd been doing it all our lives. Based on what we do and what we do, that's how we get both the public court and the citizens' court. Why is it so hard to go home? Three years ago, people told them to go home. They still can't wake up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31181	Thank you. However, as I follow closely, I must be correct to all MPs. I don't want to defend anyone, but Borko's injuries to the Rules of Procedure have been advertised by the way you've committed the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Am I “it”? I know, but don't. You know, there's this transfer, an insult, but the bottom line was his advertising that it was a replica instead of hurting the Rules of Procedure. That's why I don't think there's any further need to abuse it. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Don't say it to me.) Let's end this breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're losing our sense of injury to the Rules of Procedure. Then I will have to rule out each of you if we continue this way to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Just for a little while, to explain. Don't. It is not usual to give a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Why? Someone here said that it doesn't say anything in the Rules of Procedure, but the breach of the Rules of Procedure is directed to the chairman, not to the MP. That's why you don't have the right to replica, because I'm the one who did it. Mr. Nejko Jovanovic asked for a replica. I gave you my word to hear you. I don't know what the replica is based on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31182	And thus, the Honorable Chairman, in light of the fact that, in the presentation of his colleague, Borko Stefanovic, it is said that the government is under the mentorship of the banks and that we, as a quasi-left, accept this mentorship in order to affirm this law. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: No one mentioned them. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31183	Please, Nema. No, you might be able to use the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, since you've found yourself in power, but I believe that any speaker on the agenda can express his opinion, how much one party disagreed or disagreed with that, that's another question. [[Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: This is already the basis for the replica, and this is the basis of the Rules of Procedure.]] (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: It is not about getting along. If we all agreed, there would be no more party system here, but a one-party system. You don't have a basis for replica, because I don't think there's enough reason to be a replica. The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31184	Thank you. I'm afraid after 10 minutes, I've forgotten why I answered my word, but I have to say next. We've had a good discussion since this morning, but it seems to me that we are now on a path that is not constructive and that is not at all related to the essence of this bill, or to the amendment and addition of the Mortgage Act. First of all, I really think it would be useful to act collegely. Mr. Stefanovic, I have to tell you, we're not bank exhibits, we're not representatives of the banking oligarchy and the green banks, as you said. With indignity, I refuse such a dictionary. That's really not right. You didn't make any arguments. I'm not part of your political campaign. Save it for some other media, not the Assembly, please. I'm sorry, I don't like to talk like this, but you're really wrong when you talk like that. Secondly, we deal with the consequences, not the causes. The problems we're dealing with by amending the Mortgage Act solve the problems that have accumulated. You said it well, 12 to 15 billion, I think it's closer, I'm sorry, five to 12 billion, I think it's closer to five billion, I think it's closer to 22% to 25% of bank assets. They're doing the evaluations right now. They're preparing for analysis. Within the next two, three months we will go with a loan resolution plan that is in trouble and the Assembly will be informed with details of the plan. Therefore, there is currently an estimate of the quality of the active banks, where everything enters, placed by companies, placed by individuals and everything else. I have to tell you that your anxiety over the number of unfulfilled loans is not justified. Last year, NKOSK had 0.9% of credits, mortgage loans not executed, a very low percentage, still. Risks exist, but there are difolts of credit for apartments, above all, for real estate, very low. Very important. We're dealing with problems. Yeah. Investments are a magic word, business activity is a magic word, new jobs are a magic word, reducing unemployment is a magic word that I hope Serbia will take on the right path. We handle these things, the problems we've encountered. You know it takes three, four, five years to bring up problems in the financial system. We found rudely inappropriate interest. Yeah. These are called high margins that reflect these risks and incompetence of banks, meaning interest margins, to charge their placements both in the economy and in certain situations in individuals. For what? You know very well yourself. Because of 500 and some companies in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency, because of the lack of discipline in the public system and debts and everything else that's happened. We do hard work. I hope we can work this out with you. We don't make those problems, we solve them. Solutions are painful, but they're solutions. Offer better solutions. I don't think I'm going to use political terms, address Serbian citizens that there's an easy way out, that they're not paying what they took credit for, that we're going to tear down the country's financial system, that we're making chaos in the country, that there are no real promises and that we shouldn't be saying that to anyone as a possibility to get out, because it just doesn't work. We are trying to make fiscal consolidation the first step followed by the consolidation of the financial sector and these two consolidations together to create space for new investments, for economic growth and everything else. I hope that the situation of Vojvodina Development Bank, Universal Banks, Agrobanks and similar situations will no longer be in the future, and that we will try to prevent banks from billing their claims. If someone gave someone money for something, they have the right to collect those claims. Everywhere in the world, and hopefully we're trying to do that, from Switzerland to America, Australia, Germany's mortgage claims are uncut. That's why she exists that if the income of whoever took the loan is not enough, it can be charged. As you know, mortgage loans are credits with the best possible conditions because they offer first-class claims. Please don't sell the fog. It's all over the place. It's an alphabet of the economy. That's what all the countries in the world do. Don't let us tear down something that will never give citizens the conditions to get a 30-year loan, like they get anywhere in the world. No one can afford a loan from a source that is four, five years old, and in order to get a loan for 30 years, you have to have a stable real estate market and a mortgage that works. As far as the real estate market is concerned, you yourself know that overheating of the market has occurred in our country and why prices have gone to three and more thousand euros per square metre. I'm not part of that process. I'm sorry it happened. We're not the only country in the world that has that problem. We're going to solve the problem, but the prerequisite is to establish faith in the market institutions that provide it. The banks won't lend credit unless they have security. We won't achieve anything by waiting 10 years for a halted bankruptcy process or never defined, pre-prepared, restructured, to come up with some solutions. It's not worth it. Those appeals don't score. The solution is getting out of this situation. There's a way out. That's right. It's a down payment activity. NKOSK made 2,200 guarantees this year on new 2,500 requirements, much less than 18,000 that were given in 2008, but production fell, the market fell. We don't do that. We'd like it back, and it'll come back when the apartment manufacturers, the construction industry, and when the banks are ready to invest again in it, not in government bonds, as they do today. In other words, I have to repeat once again, we are introducing in this conversation the accusing terms, which are not supported by facts. I have to say, I disagree. The way out is difficult, but right ahead, not aside, not rejecting the reality of life, not rejecting the obligations we've made to ourselves over time, either as a country in general, either as individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31185	Mr. Stefanovic, you must want a replica? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. I don't see the basis. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Why. I'll give you an explanation. So, the minister just gave, let me say, an explanation and answers to your questions that you asked during your debate. Therefore, you have disagreements, and I can understand that, but further replication or debate is impossible to lead by. That's why I don't think you have a basis. There was nothing offensive. The minister has given answers to your questions from the point of view of the profession. You probably don't agree with that, but it's your right. So, I don't think you have a basis. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had no intention, at least not in this part of the session, of reporting for word under the bill of this law. However, a colleague of the DS is part of my particular inspiration to discuss this law. First, even when we talk about how laws are passed, one logical question arises – why are laws passed? That one area should be arranged, that people should not argue, that they should know by the law what they belong to. That's why the laws are passed. This law wasn't written by banks. Maybe they just said their problems, but this law wasn't written by banks. I know of other laws written by tycoons and which is the consequence of this 2010 legislation, 2011 legislation with this law. I'd like some colleagues, when they report here, to at least read the stenogram notes, and when we've been doing changes and supplementing the National Bank Act. So they don't pour their ashes anymore, because that's when it's very well explained how we set ourselves on fire in the financial crisis, the crisis investment and the public debt crisis. When I mentioned the law written by tycoons, I mean, first of all, Miskovic's oligarchy, and that's where I think of the Foreign Affairs Act. Then those who criticise this law raised both hands to legalise the export of money from the country. To remind you, the provisions of the law provided that you could export something from Serbia and never charge for that claim in Serbia. It ended up in the Virgin Islands and the Sail Islands so you wouldn't pay taxes here. And it's impossible for someone to challenge, people, to be published in the "office Messenger". You could also go through the company's daughter, not the company's daughter, but the company's daughters, meaning the same founder or connected person, to give the company in Serbia an advance for goods and services, to get that money out of Serbia under the foreign exchange law, and never to return the goods, services or money to Serbia. And then we're talking about loans that aren't charged. Here, why are they inaccessible? Due to such mangupi relations with the state, the National Bank of Serbia sold 4.5 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves between 2008 and 2012 and the euro rate jumped from 80 to 120 dinars. Today, it was as big as August 8, 2012, when the new governor entered the National Bank, and in your four years, he jumped 50%. That's why loans can't come back, because they're mostly indexed in foreign currency. Is that what the banks are for? I believe so. But most of all, it's the ones who gave the legislation that banks can do it and these laws are written for these banks, not this one. This is the result of the law's conduct. You know, someone with a salary of, for example, working, 50,000 dinars takes a loan and pays it off with interest and a principal of 20,000 dinars, when, in 2008. In 2012, he returned it with interest and a capital of 30,000 dinars. That's why our loans are getting harder and harder. The question of how to regulate this area and how to suck up capital from the citizens of the economy and at the end of the state by these banks by 2012, we can see by what the reference interest rates were, say, 2010, citizens do not know what the reference interest rate is. My colleagues from the DS know, but I'll explain it to the citizens. The reference interest rate marks the value of capital in Serbia in dinars and the bank's margin is added to that reference interest rate. The reference interest rate in 2010 was 16%, to which banks added their masculine of 6.7.8.10%,15% and charged interest at 30%, even from the state 24% where state records were of value, charters of first category value. Does anyone want to tell me what it means that someone who entered a mortgage, one bank is charged and the mortgage of other banks is deleted, and who could, you think, an ordinary citizen could have written down two or three mortgages, a small businessman, a small business owner, a craftsman, that was impossible. Two or more mortgages were written by those who cheated on Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank, which could not have been ordinary citizens. So because DS says something like that protects those who cost Serbian citizens a billion euros? Can that happen at a private bank? Well, he can't. Whose interests are we defending now? Those who have raised loans from the "Vojvodine Development Bank" from Agrobank, we are now preventing them, the state and the court from charging these loans by selling their immovable property. Then we go out and say, "It's for the bank's benefit." No, this is in favor of banks in bankruptcy that you pushed into bankruptcy. Or to give you another piece of information, since the banking system is in charge of the Finance Committee, I am sorry that my colleague Stefanovic left the Finance Committee, 12 citizens, watch out for 12 citizens at Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Banks have 12m-euro loans. A physical person, not who performs activity, not a company, a physical person. What kind of income does he have to raise a million-euro loan? What property does it have that can provide a million-euro loan? These are the sheds that your colleague Babic spoke of, which you showed at the assessment of value, such as villas and castles. He says he's not defending the credit user. Says who? How was that before? An estimated one value, then an estimater of the same bank is estimated at a lower value, if it enters into a delay so that a 30,000 loan is charged as soon as possible and the property is worth 250,000 euros, it is down to 30,000 euros just to sell it. Now he can't do it without the court. Is that protecting the bank or the debtor? I think he's protecting the debtor. What I said was a practice that has been so far. Then you're too late, when you're out of property, you can start a lawsuit against the bank, why sell it to you cheaper, now you can't do it without the court. This law still regulates one area, and as we came and that story we did in three years' time, I would only remind myself of the famous shutting down of four of the largest Serbian banks, taking over the debt of the London and Paris Club, the great praise that the public debt was then reduced, etc. I don't want to get too into it, but that was the beginning of what's happening to us today. By the appearance of these new banks whose alleged interests we are defending, I will now explain to you what it looks like, by the appearance of these banks, a people who have been tortured by sanctions, wars, they've gone on very favourable terms at that time to take credit. The terms were only worth it until the first war he was supposed to pay, then they were changed dramatically. With that and that kind of bank management without any control from the state, without any control from the central bank, we were in a situation where citizens started working and living just to get high interest back. When it happened, she first felt the economy, the decline in consumption, and then she started to take those same loans, to keep her liquidity alive. Instead of focusing what it earns on the development of businesses, on opening new jobs, it focused all its profits on paying also high interest. All that data exists. The third to be hit was the state, there was a decline in consumption, a fall in taxes, and the state began to be in debt. That didn't happen during the SNS government. Then we inherit a country with debts that are known, and then we inherit a country with debts that we just find out about, when the government in Germany starts functioning, then we find out that the falsified reports on the Central Bank's audit for Agrobank have been carried out, and then state securities are being broadcast to cover the loss of Agrobanke, so that the bankruptcy is eventually declared. Now, I'd like to see this magician, this Houdini, solve these debt problems that we inherited and that was 68% in two or three years. Let him tell us, let him teach us, but not the one who made the debt, someone else will have to. The one who made the debt showed us. In 2015, the Council adopted Serbia is due to return a billion euros of interest based on a debt not made by this government, neither before it, but by 2012. Then the MPs jump in here – growing public debt, growing public debt. Yes, interest is growing. We didn't raise those loans. Now expect the state to solve all these problems overnight. It won't work. No one can do that. By falsely reporting the value of the assets, I'm not sorry at all. In 99% of the cases, they were the only ones who could type two and more mortgages into one single immovableity. I also don't feel sorry for them for writing a mortgage on a shed that was shown as the value of a small castle, which will be used when the shed is sold to their real castle. That's why I'm not sorry. Who's sorry? Well, I don't know why. Is he maybe getting paid by them?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31187	For mentioning the party and yourself to Stefanovic, please. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31188	Mr. Chairman, thank you. The polemics are healthy. She lives in the congregation. Every MP is above the minister because he chooses him. If the minister says anything to the MP, mentions the name or the party, you must give the word. You're required, unless you think we're all silent when the executive authority speaks, and I know you don't mean it. So, you've told us a lot of things here. You're just not the basic thing. Somehow, you've been bypassing those who are going to be hit, and they're citizens. We said what citizens and how. The tycoons do. It needs to be interrupted, it needs to be taken away from them, but it doesn't say that. You didn't pass those laws, not even about the origin of the property. You haven't passed laws that allow progressive taxation, you haven't done any of that, you're just talking. But you also didn't exclude people living in that apartment from the possibility of their apartment being taken away by the bank. You didn't do that. So now we have a legal basis - a request from the trustee in the law after execution. For the first time, we have a legal basis - trustee's demands. I'm gonna take your apartment and that's enough legal ground. How can anyone's request outside the court be the basis for the confiscation of property? How? That's what you tell us. You don't mention "Universal Bank". You mention all these others, but it's kind of weak. I understand. It's not that simple. How can anyone enter anyone's private property without a court order even if he was a bank? How? Because he was making banks and giving them loans then, believe me, they're doing it now. Maybe you weren't informed. They're just other people, but the same mechanism. It's exactly the same. Now in five years, or three years from now, I need to remind you of all these things here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31189	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31190	I'm done. Last sentence. Please, one last sentence. So, how are you all going to avoid all together as a country-negative situation that took place in Croatia in 2012 when the mortgages arrived, and there were as many as 714 suicides due to the confiscation of property.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31191	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 6:00 p.m., or 19.00 p.m. because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Veroljub Arsic, you want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31192	I'll be brief. I don't want to go too far into those details that my colleague used to say before me. The biggest protection of debtors from the bank is that its assets, if the subject is the subject of the mortgage and must be sold at that real market value. The bank gave the money and asked for security, and as a rule, no one has any mercy, so you can give your money to someone and lend it to them and ask as a condition to write a mortgage in your favor, would you forgive them? No, you wouldn't. Maybe if you only had so much, but you wouldn't. But you couldn't even sell an apartment that costs 100,000 euros for 10,000 euros, because it owes you that much. You won't be able to. That's the point in this law. How do you enter a mortgage? It's known based on the pawn's statement. You know how to verify. You know who's writing in, you know the whole procedure. These are documents issued by the competent national authorities. It's not the subject of a contract to be a warlock. That's why completely, maltene, this matter is regulated. Anything that goes one step further towards a certain administration creates conditions for banks to be deceived. They will not be deceived by these citizens who bought apartments to live in. Banks that are going to be fooled by those who do some work, want to come up with a huge amount of money, shut down these companies, open up the other and put out the dots, the debt is not valid. That regulates the law. He won't be able to do it anymore. I don't know what the problem is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31193	Thank you. Here's Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31194	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you have injured Article 104, which speaks of the right to replication. Neither Mr. Stefanovic, nor anyone, expressed himself poorly to Mr. Arsic. This Article 104 does not allow for replication. When an MP from any opposition group comes forward you never allow this way to react and replicate. This is what we point out all the time that the biggest problem is to treat the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly in this way, and then to disrespect the laws that are being passed here, and then we have one whole mess in the country and in the state system. That's what the problem is and you can't possibly accept. I'm telling you you can't have double arches for MPs of the government and MPs of the opposition. The government can always get a replica because you respect their authority, and the opposition can never get a replica, even when it belongs to it according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31195	Mr. Jovanovic, I am here a man who should think for himself. Borko Stefanovic has repeatedly asked a direct question, addressing it, not a noun, but turned there. I thought he was expecting that answer, and that's the only reason I gave it. I agree that nothing was offensive, but I think it was correct to give an opportunity to give an answer. It's your right, I think so, and I don't always think that's exactly the reason it has to be. I agree that the reason for calling is yes, but it doesn't always have to be. So let me accept that I was wrong if it makes you a satisfaction. It's no problem for me to accept that I've made a mistake somewhere, and I think that every man makes a mistake. That's my argument, which is why I gave Mr. Arsic's replica of Mr. Stefanovic the opportunity. Now I'm going to give Stefanovic a chance for the replica, and hopefully we'll end up with that. Here's Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31197	Excuse me, Mr. Stefanovic. Are you asking us to come forward on Voting Day? No, I don't. I took six seconds from you, Mr. Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31198	Thank you. So, you need to create an ambience, and if you instead of creating the ambience that you keep talking about, and not creating it, you essentially execute it, essentially through decisions and amendments to the laws of the order of banks and the IMF, then you are their constituents, not the citizens who chose you, thus introducing a deep crisis of democracy into Serbia. Also, you're talking about the reality of life. The reality of life is that in some neighbouring countries it has led to tragedy, not those tycoons that have taken, so they won't return, so they won't now, because they are now, these tycoons, friends with someone from your authority. They won't be touched, they won't go to the bank to take them away. Introduce immediately billable mortgages, immediately, I repeat, citizens, billable mortgages, while at the same time reducing wages and pensions, you take people's incomes and jobs away. Over 10,000 people will be fired this year. So you're taking away their jobs and income, and you're allowing the bank to immediately collect the mortgage. That's what I'm talking about. You have not excluded the people, the house and the garden, what man lives in with his family, which has not existed with Milos Obrenović, there is no Alexander Vukic. It's all gonna go away. Now, that's what your government is going to do and those no-loving scenes we're going to watch. I'm warning you in advance, to avoid it, to make exceptions, to separate people, as I was saying about power collection. You won't. You're just talking about the past. People in Serbia wonder when your future will come. This is the future of only banks in Serbia, only banks, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31199	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list is National MP Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31200	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, without credit, modern market economy is slow and inefficient and almost unimaginable. In countries where the credit system does not function as a leverage of the economy, the economic situation is significantly lower than those countries that have developed a credit system. A developed credit system also creates the need for safer security of credits, which means that this security must be both efficient and tailored in every way to the economy in which it is applied. The creation of a mortgage market in Serbia has allowed a larger number of citizens to provide a roof over their heads, expand their business, and not rarely have citizens taking loans and to buy new cars or furniture, and all of this has created one situation that we have a large number of mortgage-based immovableities, and I fear that because of the public's paying power, this number of immovableities will not be even greater in some future period and that this does not lead to a large number of properties found on the market that will have a lower market value at one point due to the provisions of the laws which provide that such immovableities can be sold below market value, within 60% of the real market value. This, of course, will turn potential real estate buyers to precisely those immovableities, which can again cause a problem for investors who are building at real prices, so I'm afraid we're not treating one wound, and we're opening another wound. The important mortgage law, which was adopted in 2005, it was quite understandable that in the meantime, a series of changes occurred both in the economic and financial life of Serbia and in the financial business, there have also been changes in Serbia's business environment, which requires greater security, so that, by analysing the current mortgage law, we can see a series of discrepancies with current living conditions, with new legal solutions that we have adopted in Serbia over the past few years, but also with EU legislation. It is these newly created socio-economic changes, transitions, privatisation, changed conditions of adjustment that require the mortgage, as a real means of security, to be regulated in a manner that corresponds to social reality. With the amendment and addition of the Mortgage Act, which we are discussing today, some of the weaknesses of the applicable law will be removed. First of all, there is a need to simplify the very process of immovableisation, in this direction and the amendments provided for by this law, which, above all, provide for eradicating one of the burdensome items of the applicable law, a provision on the consent of a third party who is the holder of the immovable property that is being held. And that, under the applicable law, was required to be delivered with a publishing statement. The consent of the third party, the direct holder of the immovableity, has in many ways complicated the process of advocacy. There were a lot of cases that ended up in court. However, although this is a good solution and we support it, I have to ask the Minister or the associates who have stayed, after the minister has left, how is it intended to protect those third parties, who can be either protected tenants or tenants for a long period of time, especially those who are in the lease of some business space that is being mortgaged, so they have developed business, it is obvious that they can suffer some damage, in which direction, and is it envisaged by some sublaw, to protect those persons? The 2005 mortgage law, as a good solution, introduced the newspaper that the mortgage can also be placed on non-recorded objects, i.e. buildings that are in a certain degree of construction. This was a well-accepted solution, given that in that very time, after 2005, the construction industry and the real estate market experienced expansion, and it was indeed well accepted by real estate buyers. In practice, however, the bank did not apply the law as it was written, so in many cases they refused to enter, or to provide loans where the mortgage was entered into on the immovable property which was registered, but under special law, or under the Law on special conditions of registration for buildings built without a building permit. Please, if you'd like to answer me, to hear what I'm asking, it's about objects that are registered under special conditions, which were built without a building permit. When we talked about this law here in the tide, it was said, that the citizens listened, that these immovableities needed to be entered into the House of Immobilities, precisely to record property, but also to allow citizens to receive loans based on such recorded immovable property. Imagine now that a citizen with a copy of a list of immovableities, from Katastra, goes to the bank, where the facility is listed under special conditions, and the banker tells him-- no, you can't get a loan, because your facility doesn't have a building permit. Since these amendments and the amendments to the Law are not intended to amend the article relating to the subject matter of the mortgage, we were unable to submit an amendment, but I ask you to take into account and consult, is there any way to add to this article, as the subject of mortgages and objects entered under special conditions, or is it decided by the Committee, whatever the procedure? This would indeed make it easier for bankers, but it would also make it easier for the owners of objects that thus recorded their property on buildings that were built without a building permit, but are listed in the Immobilities Catalogue and for them can be obtained a copy of the Immobilization List. The most important amendment provided for in Article 26, which amends Article 49 of the applicable law and solves one of the biggest problems or concerns that were trusted in the preceding period, is the amendment to the provision relating to the fact that, after the sale of the mortgaged immovableity of the rights of the later creditors, they remain entered or reserved. This led to the fact that the real estates that were repeatedly advocated to provide a larger number of creditors were really hard to sell in practice, because no one wanted to buy a real estate where they couldn't enroll one through one, because they were more late creditors, i.e. their rights remain reserved. With the bill's proposal, the lower orders are being deleted, and the problem will be resolved in good luck. The proposal for a law also provides that the trustee in a real estate sale contract, in addition to the purchase price, will enter a provision, i.e. the contribution to the contract, which determines the allocation of assets derived from the sale of immovable property in a given order, where the requests of the creditors will be paid according to the order of the enrolment. This is extremely good, because this is how we respect the legal principle that has been in force since the creation of the mortgage institute, which it says, first in time, stronger right. I also believe that Article 39. The mortgage law, which refers to buildings in construction as the subject of settlement of the mortgage, i.e. the grant of construction, should also be specified and complemented. I don't know if it's been left out for a reason, or by chance, that other than building facilities can be a special part of the building, because the subject of the mortgage doesn't have to be the whole building facility, or the approval of the whole building, but it can be a special part of the facility, or approval to build a special part of the facility. So the approval to build a special part of the facility is left out here, and it's only about approval to build an entire facility. So, we have made an amendment to this article and I suppose you will adopt this amendment, because if the object can be an object that has been built entirely and a special part of the building entirely, then it can also be an approval for the construction of that particular piece, as can be building land, the right of citizens, etc. All in all, it is important that this legal solution contributes to a consistent application of the out-of-court way of regulating the relationship of all participants in the credit relationship, where the mortgage is a security instrument, to ensure faster and better payment of banks. Because, however we look at it, banks have the right and obligation to protect both their interests and their capital, because it is in the mortgage register run by the Agency for Economic Registers more than 70% of those entered by the banks. The bill also protects the rights and interests of debtors, i.e. the owner of mortgaged immovable property, reduces administrations and reduces the involvement of state authorities in the process itself, which is also good. A consistent application of the amended mortgage law will establish a mortgage system in accordance with the requirements of the modern economy, economy and finance and in line with the most advanced international benchmarks in this area. As Parliament Group member Nedjo Jovanovic said, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the bill, asking you to consider and adopt, of course, our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31201	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović, and let Aleksandra Tomic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31202	Thank you, esteemed president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Minister, here you are again in the National Assembly. You were there the other day to tell us that MPs of the ruling coalition voted for an increase in electricity prices, i.e. the introduction of electricity excise. And this law is another one in a series of pay cut laws, pension cuts, electricity price hikes. In one word, laws with a generic name - strike down the poverty, strike down the civil layer, destroy what little remains of the civil layer, although already two-thirds of the citizens are on the verge of poverty. By this law, Mr. Minister, you're speeding up, making it easier for banks to take a flat, a house for citizens who took that apartment or a house on loan. Mr. Minister Vujovicu, the situation is not as regular as in other countries. The users of the loan six or seven years ago, when they took the loan, they paid half their salary for the war, and they had half their salary for life and one salary if they had another salary in the family. Now they must pay both their wages and their marriage mate’s wages if that mate is working. And you, Mr. Minister, come to the Assembly and allow the banks, and the banks are, and the colleague rightly said, 90% of the cases are listed above the mortgages that are on the burden of the natural persons, mostly due to the purchase of the apartment, not the second or third, but the first in which they live. You allow them to now, as the law puts it, you wrote it well, you lied nothing, quickly and reliably out-of-courtlylyly selling the pawned immovableity. You also say that the proposed solution is now defined in the spirit of economic needs and the times in which their application is planned. In what spirit? In the spirit that banks become owners of these properties, i.e. to sell them, i.e. at a public auction offer for the price offered. It can also be for a real estate of 50,000 and 5,000 euros. We know the situation on the real estate market. You say in your explanation very clearly that this law is passed for the sake of a better position of creditors in the Serbian market. Great. So you didn't have to sit here, Mr. Vujovic. It's clear to us, this law has been written by banks, the financial oligarchy that runs and runs this country. Mr Vujovic, after this law, which applies retroactively, therefore, someone to whom a mortgage was entered seven years ago, will be sold under this law, as a mortgage under this law has been activated, not under conditions worth seven years ago. By selling their immovableity by direct contract after 30 days, Mr Vujovic. You said nicely that this law was brought in favor of the trustee's interest, but retroactively, Mr. Vujovic. So it's not about people who are going to write a mortgage on their immovable property today, it's about those who, seven or eight years ago, established that mortgage in favour of the bank without any other choice. This isn't about the safest mortgage security. It's the only possible means of security in this country. What other means, Mr Vujovic, exists as a means of security in Serbia? Pay. Do you want to take a hand or something? The only apartment they've bought to live in, and now they'll be moved out of that apartment quickly and efficiently, as you've predicted by this law, Mr Vujovic. This is a law that goes to the detriment of Serbian citizens, as in all the laws that you have defended here lately and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, which does everything but what it has promised in the exposé, or in the pre-election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31203	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, and let Mirjana Djokovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31204	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today amend and supplement the Mortgage Act should practically introduce a clear order, not only on the real estate market, but on the retail market which has been the target since 2005 and 2006, when one big expansion was in general paid by banks to the population, where the past has proved to be simply something that is said of exclusive interest in profit, regardless of the country's relations and regardless of the relations with Serbian citizens. When someone is talking about Croatia today and about the credit and that it simply comes to taking a large amount of real estate, then somewhere the fact that there was never a credit bureau in Croatia and that banks were giving credit, regardless of the fact that citizens were in charge. The situation was not in Serbia, and it is one of the factors that shows that there is an opportunity to address the situation on the market, especially when it comes to mortgages for loans, housing loans, which affect Serbian citizens the most. The beginning of that whole cycle, meaning, started from 2005, 2006 when the real estate market worked in a completely different way than it is now, when certain countries in the region in our neighbourhood had a large inflow of certain capital, when here on the real estate market, practically because of this expansion of cash, or financial resources, and the price of squares was higher than in general when we talk about the real estate market and countries and member states of the European Union. But what should be said is that it was in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, which showed that mortgages were very well traded and used as an instrument for privatising companies in which the mortgage was given to customers at the time, even for state property, which was, of course, completely illegal. This is why today we have certain court disputes such as the Nibens Group, where it has proved that certain centres were able to raise loans with mortgages that were 20% higher than the value of a particular property, but Serbian citizens were paying 60% more mortgage. Therefore, it should be realistic. Someone allowed banks to treat Serbian citizens this way, and they also saved some power centers, some companies, companies, holding companies, which could raise loans even on state property, but also some power centres and individuals had the opportunity to bring in large amounts of living money, earned in a magical way, even from a gray economy, and even from certain processes that we called corrupt activities, which they had put into the bank and raised certain Lombard loans on the basis of, practically, cash guarantees, buying properties for which only 20% higher mortgages were also accounted for, while citizens were paying 40%, 60% higher mortgages. In this way, simply, there was no order in which and in which way, which bank practically established a certain mortgage as a guarantee measure, and not only that, but also an interest rate that grew in a certain way and aligned with what was happening on the capital and euro market and in the Swiss franc. Therefore, Serbian citizens at the time were burdened by two basics. So you can't, on two grounds, burden the clients who took the loans, especially when we're talking about housing loans. You cannot raise interest and coordinate it with the euro capital market and the Swiss franc on the London Stock Exchange or on the European Stock Exchange, and then you cannot raise an interest rate relating to a higher mortgage. This is simply, by law, and now the litigation brought to the benefit of citizens, and to the detriment of banks because it was not possible to do so, and banks could not do so unless they had the support of the National Bank of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the time. Therefore, what is happening now is the practical consequence of the decisions made by irresponsible governments, irresponsible parties led by then monetary policy and credit policy and the economic policy of the state. What he's trying to do right now is exactly the mortgage system. The second part, when we talk about these changes and additions at all, should show that we should define a relationship with other legal solutions. These legal solutions, so far we have primarily the Law on Public Records, then the law relating to the cadastre, the diameter and the cadastrian immovableities and the laws that are related to these particular litigation disputes that I was talking about. Therefore, now that you are entering new credit arrangements, it should be possible for banks with certain creditors and debtors to agree directly outside court proceedings. This should really be supported because no bank likes to take a mortgage and an apartment because the real estate market is put to sleep and there's no one to turn into a capital property. That's why this is kind of a system of how you're going to shut down the core and real estate market, but that's also one reform of the whole mortgage issues, as a social change. Why? Because we're changing the fundamental and awareness of the people about it, if you're taking credit, simply, you have to look seven times to once cut and choose the system on which you're going to pay off the loans, but also take credit for a certain property. What is important, to respect these principles that are very important, which my colleagues have also spoken about, the rights of the collection championship, when it comes to the collection of claims, but it is important to say that the order of reconciliation is defined and the time period in which the whole process and the process should be completed. It should be said that I am the goal of passing this law and the results in general can be seen from the bank's point of view, but also from the point of view of businesses and entrepreneurs, not just citizens. When we talk about entrepreneurs and business entities, then it should be said that facilitating the possibility of banks solving their claims in a certain way with banks will help to finally work out and speed up certain business activities, and hence that employees in these small and medium-sized enterprises, I am talking mostly here about the private sector because the private sector really needs to be supported in a certain way and economically supported and strengthened, then we are talking about it – we will facilitate their functioning on the market, but we will also make it easier for the employees in these businesses to provide for their business, for their future salaries. Each of them, after all, is somewhere in charge of credit and thus ensuring one financial security for all these people working in the private sector. When we talk about the public sector and mortgages at all, then we come to the conclusion that in the past it was one of the ways in which the entire economy functioned. You had that budget business back then. Practically, your entire budget was created by two or three companies that essentially negotiated with the prime ministers of certain governments, with finance ministers how it should look and you had the essential work of banks and the National Bank that had to comply with it. Now, simply, when you've set up a market with certain economic reforms, you're in a situation where you have to cancel the mortgage functioning system. What's good is that in a very transparent way, it works and ends this process of defining debt-trust relations and negotiations at all, both with business entities and with Serbian citizens, and that you have the precision of all the warnings in which you essentially strengthen the relationship between the actors themselves in the process of establishing a mortgage, in general, but you are coming to this law to modernise the overall functioning of the better rating and banking process, but also the economy itself. You also achieve better opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, which want to open new production facilities, to have a better scope for co-operation, not only with our domestic banks, but also with foreign banks and those related to international institutions. So today you have the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is simply, globally looking at this market and how much there is the unification of small and medium-sized enterprises to raise certain loans, in a particular dam, it is fully open to give such credit opportunities, but with reduced interest rates and this principle that you have introduced by amending and supplementing the Mortgage Act should essentially bring to that level which is both the possibility of taking credit and by, say, other countries. So our small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as foreign and domestic investors under the same conditions, should essentially give these measures and guarantees. These measures and guarantees, of course in the past, have proved to have completely choked the economy somewhere. Now in a certain way you want to let the market work. Thus, and the real estate market, which takes a lot of time to start working at this point when you have this proposal of a legal solution, will simply be able to start the construction industry in a certain way, thus no longer have a large number of natural persons who will build large buildings over 800 squares and provide mortgages for certain payments and not pay taxes to the state for the construction of such buildings, but you will have simply companies, entrepreneurs, where, with that VAT charge, the state will benefit more, but also each individual in the construction system, because everything will be as controlled in a certain way not only by the Republic Administration of Public Revenues, but also by suppliers who will have the interest to invest in new construction materials and thus enter the VAT system. So this, as you can see, you have the possibility of opening new jobs. As a result, this Law has several benefits for many sectors, and thus Serbian citizens will also have major problems that will be easier to overcome than banks, because banks will also be brought into a position that they will have to negotiate directly with citizens who are users of credit, that they will not be able to charge interest rates at two levels, and thus you will disburse the courts that are now covered by litigation. In the day of voting, the SNS and MPs and my parliamentary groups will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31205	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mirjana Djokovic, and let Gordana Komic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31206	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and respected citizens who follow through your tv receivers, so this today's exposure and follow the public of the work of this high house, we are talking today about amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act that establishes and guarantees the application of the classical principles of civil law, adapted to modern, parallel and international experience in the field of publishing law. The mortgage is one of the basic legal mechanisms for the provision of claims, especially those created on the basis of loans, i.e. loans. The mortgage law allows citizens and Serbia's economy to provide funds for investment or consumption, particularly by banks and other financial institutions, through credit under favourable conditions. It is clear to all of us that this law improves the legal environment and the economic climate in the country, which will act stimulatingly to increase domestic and foreign investment in all areas of economic and social life. The mortgage law establishes a mortgage regime in line with the demands of the modern economy and finance and the needs of the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, the Law establishes a guarantee of the collection of claims, i.e. protection and security of creditors, most often banks, a very fast and secure way in a non-judicial or shortened court procedure and with the necessary protection, both the debtor and the owner of the mortgaged immovableity without excessive administration and the owner and the involvement of the state authorities in the procedure itself. Without credit, modern economy is inconceivable, slow and very inefficient. The development of credit needs to secure credit rates more securely. This security must be primarily efficient and in every other way adapted to the economy in which it is applied. We want to admit or not credit plays a crucial role in every market economy, especially with us because the development and restructuring of the economy is unimaginable without foreign credit. Only an effective system of security for trustees' claims can create assumptions for foreign investment. The reform of the mortgage as a request for market economy meant the need to allow the realization of the mortgage of the optional conduct of the previous litigation procedure, the reduction of the sale of immovableity procedure in order to speed up the implementation of the right to settle monetary claims and to impose immovableities, by allowing banks directly to organise public sales following the approval of a court or possibly a new established public notation which would enroll and approve on the basis of a written document the realisation of the irrefutable mortgage. Everything was motivated by the Serbian legislator to prescribe the mortgage as a special legal institute by the adoption of a special law on mortgage law. Article 2 of the Law also gives rise to the principle of the right of the championship to collect claims. The legislator prescribed that the mortgage trustee had the right to collect his claim from the value of mortgaged immovableity. The possibility of collecting claims from mortgaged immovableity is conditioned at the level of the claim and the value of the immovable property providing that claim. In its 40th law, the legislator prescribed that when one subject of a mortgage is committed to a few mortgage creditors, the order by which their claim and price obtained by the sale of a mortgage is determined by day, hour and minute of mortgage production, counting from the moment of sale of the registered mortgage. So the principle of ranking and establishment of the rank itself is represented. We today need to answer questions that are actually intended for the goals of passing this law. First of all, we introduce clearer rules, eliminate standards that have been inconsistencies and have shown themselves in practice to be very inefficient and unspeakable. We achieve a higher level of legal certainty for all participants in the business and in line with the applicable laws, international standards and best international practice. According to their nature, the provisions of this law have an effect on all domestic and commercial societies and entrepreneurs, i.e. public authorities, citizens, as well as banks and other financial institutions. The proposed solutions will have an effect on banks and other financial organisations, citizens and companies, entrepreneurs and state authorities, and this is where a number of interested persons are thought. I would also like to point out in this discussion that, as a direct consequence of the adoption of the proposed law, an increase in domestic and foreign operators to the medium term can be expected as a result of the regulation of this significant instrument of financing citizens and businesses. It is very good that the public debate was held between 4 and 23 December 2014 by the Ministry of Finance. The proposed law does not provide for the adoption of sublaws and other acts, and an analysis of the implementation of the law will be carried out in cooperation with interested users of the law both on the part of trustees and their associations and through the prescribed mechanisms for the protection of the rights of beneficiaries of financial services. I honestly believe that a long time ago when individuals as a pawn's right gave their orchards or meadows, and they took extremely high amounts of credit from the Development Fund, so very often they used funds not purposefully, and then when the mortgage of the state comes into question. A mortgage can sometimes be a real nightmare for small and medium-sized enterprises. Banks are one way to judge their own, and another, property owned by the company. When applying to the Development Fund as a basic element, a balance sheet appears i.e. Company’s core and crafts assets. And, here, the release of immovable assets from the balance sheet has its own price because, as a rule, the Development Fund is now disqualifying loan requirements that do not have its own foothold in immovable business assets. With that, with all the newspapers he's predicting, I think today's bill will greatly modernise the trustees' claim insurance system. The credit plays a crucial role in any market economy and only an effective system of security for trustees' claims can create assumptions for foreign investment. In the day for voting with colleagues from the SNS parliamentary club, I will support any proposed legislative amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31207	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, and let the MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31208	Thank you. Since there is no text without context, in the debate that I would like to contribute to improving the text of this law, only in a few sentences in the context, in which we are changing the 2005 Mortgage Act today and what we call the banking market or the mortgage market, in three very rough lines, in which by 1990 we have a banking and financial system, there was also an expression – a grant credit. There were a lot of things, and the way the organized banks were so that they became persons with grants, and we never managed to translate that into any language to anyone who tried to understand how the banks functioned. In the 1990s, we had non-equity banks, and that's ten years without credit, any mortgages, cash, development, whatever you want, because the banks were non-equitable. It's the same banking market, and it's all our recent future, that is, the recent past, and hopefully not the near future. Here we have a law that tries to fix what we are doing as construction and the mortgage market and the mortgage market, in general, even the adjustment of the bank's position and everything that should be applied, make us look like any Central European country, which is either GDP or per head or general, income up to 40% of the European average or up to 60% of the European average. It's a context. The text I want to share with the minister, first of all, is less or more questions with several remarks, which were made in the interpretation of the law by the finance minister. They were said to be an equal debtor and a trustee. Never. I know it sounds nice and I'm inclined to say it, but to explain it means that both the debtor and the trustee know in advance the legal conditions under which they will have to repay the debt or under which they will be able to collect the debt, but the equality between the debtor and the trustee, it doesn't exist because the trustee says - you have something of mine, so I'm going to take it from you. There isn't, in the best sense, I don't speak at all in an ugly context. It would be good to talk more about it, because it's important that we understand that when debt-confidential relations are at stake, any one of them, they're not negotiations. We can call it negotiations sometimes, when duty-confidential relations of any kind apply to cities or countries, but they're not essentially negotiations, because they can't owe and trust that they have an equal position. What's the minister yet, I don't blame it, I ask, I'm simply making a point, because I think it's good by law, that from the position of power and authority, like the Ministry of Finance, there are no stories about how debtors are equal and how this law is so passed, because when you read it, then you see it's not, but it sounds good, I'm not saying. So, the law essentially creates greater legal certainty and a better position for the achievement of undeniable trust rights, for creditors and for creditors. This is also clear when it comes to deadlines and when it comes to how the claim will be charged, when it comes to other mechanisms defined as new in this law, as compared to the 2005 law. What is important to clarify is also mentioned by counterpart Janko Veselinovic, what happens to the provisions of this law regarding the mortgages that are under way and in which there are contracts from earlier. I can have my own position and it is not clearly seen in the law, as there is no clear provision nor that there will be retroactiveness, that the Assembly declares it, but because of clarity and for the safety of all those involved, whether as creditors or debtors, it is clear. There's not much solution. Either all existing mortgage debt-confidential relations from the date of entry into force of this law will be subject to the provisions of this law or not. One of those two, it can't be either, or neither, although we'd like the debtors to be neither, but it can't be. For the sake of mention, for the liquidity of banks, and for the inability of many years, that we are dealing with loans at all, now some may say we were better off without credit, of any kind, but the modern market economy and what we have as private individuals, the desire to have, it doesn't go without banks and does not go without credit. There's a famous rule in high and small business, you never do business with your money. Everyone smart deals with money from banks or creditors, not their own, and the most painful point here is the housing loans people started to raise, how the liquidity of banks became reality in our country. Out of the most dramatic examples where people have opt-out to have credit in Swiss francs and where moves by Switzerland now have a problem living along with a loan of nearly a billion euros. It is, to return to the minister's remarks, that the debtor and trustee are in an equal relationship. They are not, nor can they be, nor can you be to anyone who wants to be in charge, to protect him with the law, lest he do so. I don't know if we remember, we had provisions that in the amount of money you have a month, you couldn't have some war of credit 30%, 20%, 10%, so we understood that it wasn't going to happen and that maybe some kind of credit education, whatever it sounds funny, would be welcome to the population in Serbia, that they knew better the risks of raising mortgage loans or whatever. The banks have it as a business obligation, but we can see from credits in Swiss francs that banks don't do it. For the part that I'm going to address, it's a few estimates, an application to clarify what's going on with the provisions of this law and existing mortgages. Several questions concerning the text itself, members of the provisions of the laws that are being amended. Article 11 of the Amending and Supplements which are amended after Article 20 shall be added to the name of Article 20a and the member in three positions. The first position – a mortgage trustee or more, may, in writing with certified signatures, determine a third party or one of them to take legal actions to protect the settlement of the mortgage-secured claim. The second position – in the case referred to in Article 1(1), third party, acts on behalf of and on behalf of the mortgage trustee or more of them in relation to the mortgage debtor, or the owner of the mortgaged immovableity, where that is not the same person, as well as to all third parties who are directly held by mortgaged immovableity. The third position - the name of the third person referred to in Article 1 will be entered in the immobility register, by the fact that the mortgage trustee or several of them can always request that they be entered in the immobility register, i.e. replace the third person. It would be very good to explain this, just as it says. I know what the intention is to have a mortgage transfer, but it doesn't say it here, it's carefully look at the other attitude or whatever the intention is, it stays completely unclear here, whether it's intent or the intention of them to agree, which is quite illogical, why would more trustees agree that it's best for one of them to represent all of them. I understand special cases where that's the case, but this is a general member of the law and it's important. I do not mention "in writing", whether in "written form" it is more or less important. So that member should be explained on the case, if you can, hypothetically, so you have four of them and one of them four, and then what happens when this member of the law is applied, because I think there's going to be problems. In Article 17, which is amended by Article 31, you have explained this, jointly, in the case of several of us, in some of the last opinions you are talking about that the complaint will be respected if the debtor or owner of the mortgaged immovableity with the complaint delivers and written evidence etc., the complaint cannot be respected. Since the time has passed for amendments of the People's MPs, there is a great mechanism within the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so with the committee to agree that as much as I understand you, it was in some previous text of the law, so we just prescribed that we stop the tradition that if someone made a comment and it didn't go away, then that's fine. No, the remark remains, that remark was given and then, but most of it was most of it and then I had a remark and then there was the opposition and then and now, unfortunately, it wasn't applied. And what I want to ask at the end are provisions concerning Article 4. It is not subject to change and supplementation, we cannot submit an amendment where other social property is, and no provision on registered immovable property is introduced according to planning and construction. Neither can you, unfortunately, now Article 4. Parliament rules are such that amendments can only be submitted to members of the laws which are subject to amendment and amendment, this is not. In the basic text, it also remained as such on the harmonisation of provisions with the Public Registration Act. It would be good, since it will be time to debate in particular that professional services and your advisers very carefully look at the amendments possible in dialogue with MPs who have submitted amendments to find a solution and that the Committee then submits an amendment which would remove the dilemmas about whether or not those registered under the Law on Planning and Construction, whether or not the purpose of respecting complaints, what it means and what is actually happening to the third person chosen, appointed in writing to defend the common interest of all creditors. We will likely have the Mortgage Act very soon again in the procedure, as the situation with mortgage markets is changing both in Europe and in the world. We are all a global victim of a mortgage market crash from 2006 to 2008, and as a result, because of the abolishing of the regulations relating to trade on the exchange in 1998, or 1999, and the collapse of the mortgage market has pulled the chain of fractures of individual economies, markets and personal human accidents. I don't believe there's a law that can prevent such a fracture again, but I believe that the Serbian Government, that we MPs can share information about what it means if someone offers you a very convenient mortgage, what it is that reads in small letters, what it means if you think you can charge as a trustee, and you can't, because that kind of knowledge and information is missing. Examples that we have instructed in the defense of the law are the most wrong examples. So, give an example that you've had abuses, so that's why you're passing the law, there's no law that can prevent you from being abused. You have a consistent application of the existing provisions of the law and you as a finance minister or a ministry to accompany and be consulted on the application of certain provisions, you are not in charge of abuses. There are others who will say that the abuse of the mortgage market was or was not, but it is also an irresistible tendency to say to the new provisions of the law that because there will be more detailed procedures, which will be exactly the right time, which will be more likely for creditors, there will be fewer abuses. The reality will deny us in such a position, and therefore it should pay much more attention to people being fully informed about what it is that the state guarantees as a procedure, as a legality if you choose to be in debt or if you choose to be a trustee and insist on the full clarity of those provisions, because it is the only moment in which the trustee and debtor are in such a position that they can expect the protection of their rights. I'd like a very lively real estate market. It's not even in the world. I wish people could come to their apartments or houses under favourable conditions, I would not want to go back to the institutions of grants, as it has already been called, as I would not like to return to forced vacation, it is also unconductive, but even less, I would like to pass the law today to look at debt-confidential relations in a year, and to show that the provisions of this law are written, not because of the rule of law, not because of informing those who, by their own free will, want to enter into a debt relationship, but because the banks are safe. Whether BEJLAUT is in money from the state register, from the budget of all of us like it was in Europe or the promise of BEJLAUT in the legal provisions doesn't make much difference, it's such a context for the time in which we live to have countries finance banks that, with high interest, take extra money from citizens. It's a free choice of all of us who sometimes seem to us that we don't have a free choice to get into a debt-confidential relationship. It is not indecisive and harmonising the situation on the mortgage market, but it will never be to the satisfaction of the debtor. Of course, it is good that we correct a little bit of both the rights and obligations of creditors and the rights and obligations of debtors, it will raise confidence in the rule of law in all a little bit and maybe enable banks that now have mortgages enrolled in 70%, that banks also change their policy when it comes to interest rates and when it comes to fine-tuning, abandoning clients information, and peopleally misleading clients in very many cases or vice versa. This should all fall under abuse, and other laws to prevent such abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31209	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31210	Thank you very much for the exhaustive discussion with a lot of useful suggestions. Let me start with a thing that might seem the most controversial, but it's actually defined by Article 30. The Law amending and supplementing the Mortgage Act, which states that the resolutions on the notice of mortgage sale, which have become effective until the date of entry into force of this law, is nominated in Article 34(6) from the date of entry into force of this law. What has not happened before, or what is locked, is not previously applied to all future transactions. If you think about all those who enter or who have entered into debt-trust relations on mortgage loans, the mortgage has been defined, only here are the elements that define how it is legally implemented, so we are in accordance with the Constitutional provision that there is no retroactive validity, but the application of this law will be, it will apply to everything. As for your suggestion on bank liquidity, I am based on the empirium that has existed in the world for 20 years there has been a tendency that banks no longer lend mortgage loans by providing the manual structure of their sources and placements at the level of the commercial bank, but in this part relying on larger financial markets, and there is a quality of governance in all these processes crucial. So I would just like not to consider social aspects that are important, but that have to be solved in another way through the insurance instruments that we offer through "En Bones", through the elements of participation, through the elements of the subsidisation of interest, etc. This solves the social aspects of mortgages. In banks, the situation has to be healthy, because the paradox is that it is a stronger legislative basis, it will give banks cheaper loans. So logic is completely the opposite. Banks are given the possibility to charge a smaller margin, to be competitive, and where these laws apply, interest on mortgage loans is from 2% to 3% every 30 years. So to get that, we have to provide absolute legal certainty to the banks. The equality of banks and so-called banks. The balance of creditors and debtors is interpreted here on a conditional basis. It's not the banks that print the money. The banks have a commitment to those who invested money in the banks. Banks are just financial intermediaries. Therefore, non-domestic banks, according to the plasma, are, in fact, in that peach, in the gap between their creditors, savings, citizens, too, mainly, and placements. We just want to admit it openly and to these instruments that are offered here, i.e.. To market institutes, the financial markets offered here, we offer the banks the opportunity to do so in the best possible way. Does that mean the perfect application of the law at the same time? Of course not. So we're gonna have to do a lot more. Look at the perfectly regulated markets that under conditions of instability the price of real estate, the instability of participation, the instability of instruments that cover risks, all go through shocks. Look at the amount of credit that is, say, in America and banks, to be nationalized to wait for recovery and re-privatisation. These are extreme solutions that would likely not be approved by the Assembly or provided for by the laws. I'm grateful for your suggestions, here specific suggestions. The member you quoted, not to mention the wrong number, refers in fact to this takeover of mortgages, which are currently related to functions that have an "En Kosk" and similar organisations. So there's no other intention. It was intent and we read it that way. I don't know where you see anything else. If you see, we are prepared to consider your proposals in the form of an amendment. So our intention, the intention of those who wrote the law, it's not banks, it's working groups that took care of all interests and all objections, was just to allow someone in the name and the account of someone to manage these processes, so that banks wouldn't be at the level of individual loans, to deal with these affairs. You've read this whole article. I don't know where you see that danger. Just tell me what the problem is, or suggest an amendment, and then we'll appreciate it. Finally, the Article 4 that you mention, which is written here as a Article 3, is not proposed for a change. In our case, he is listed as Article 3 in the current text. That's the one where there are points from 1 out of 6. There's no article 4 of that, so I think there's a little mistake here, maybe in what member you're referring to. The existing law refers to Article 3 which has the subject of a mortgage, and then there are six cases from 1 to 6 described which is the subject of the mortgage. There may be a mistake in the battles. That's all we need to clear up. That member hasn't changed. I don't know what change you want, so I don't know if we can look at it if it's justified. It's too late, isn't it? (Gordana Comić, from the place: He can't now. That's the procedure. We haven't changed it since we didn't think it was supposed to change. We haven't seen anything in it since everything that's the subject of the mortgage has been defined. Therefore, we saw no reason to change that member. Finally, why do you need all these provisions? Because you have to clean up the existing situation to move forward. It's not normal in countries with a regulated market economy, where you have mortgages that are located, mortgage claims that are in the difolt for years. It's a completely abnormal situation. It's an abnormal situation for you to go to the top security of a plasma, some claim, and then the system actually admits that it can't be realized. This is the situation with us, that you have in your claims to the companies that are located, that we're not just talking about apartments, not just apartments, 3.6 billion were the government's claim to businesses in the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency and 3.5 billion commercial claims. Among these claims was a huge part that was protected by mortgages and not realised. It's your right that's completely frozen. We need to unfreeze something with this. So we're not solving an imaginary problem, we're solving a problem that doesn't allow banks that placed funds at the mortgage to realize it. That's the problem. When you have so many billions of unrealised funds because the mortgage institute doesn't work, I think we need to look for solutions. You mentioned we might be changing that in the future. We probably will. The third thing I wanted to say, which I didn't mention today, which is very important, is that in Serbia there is on the one hand the weakness of this instrument, and on the other hand, the excessive use of this instrument. Nowhere in the world has I seen a simple commercial credit, which supports trade transactions, on top of all that protection and mortgage, which blocks then the aces, the company's activity, not allowing it to operate. So, with us, in a situation where we don't know, then banks in fear are asking too much for reservations, too much for security, thereby blocking the economic base of the company to be in debt. If you add that it pays 5%, 6% more than in market economies, you've disabled companies to be competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31211	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31212	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing another financial law today, which is the law on amendments to the Mortgage Act. I must point out that the Mortgage Act was adopted in 2005 and by monitoring the implementation of this law, it was concluded that in many of its parts the law does not correspond to the real state and the real market, and that is certainly one of the reasons why the need to amend and supplement the Mortgage Act is working. What I want to point out is that the bill on amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act is significant, first of all, with two aspects. The first aspect is the economic aspect. The economic aspect is significant because mortgages are also a significant financial instrument in the modern market economy. Without loans from a country like us, and our country is in transition, practically, economic growth and economic development and economic recovery would also be slowed down. So the economic growth and recovery of our country is certainly one of the essential elements that makes the amendments and additions of this law necessary. Another significant aspect of the amendment and addition of this law is the legal aspect. The legal aspect is significant for the reason that this proposal amends and complements the law, above all, agrees with the applicable laws relating to the Law on Implementation and Security, to the Law on Preference and Cataster, but is also in line with the Law on Public Registration. Also, these amendments and amendments to the law specify certain legal provisions which, during the implementation of the law since 2005, have proved inadequate and inadequate in relation to all participants in the mortgage process, which are both debtors and creditors, i.e. citizens, companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also state institutions and state institutions, because we must not forget that mortgage contracts in the exercise of certain rights of citizens come through certain institutions. First of all, I must stress that in the social protection system, one of the conditions for exercising the right to financial social assistance is to make a statement, i.e. giving a mortgage on land property that is above the law of the prescribed size. Also, I have to point out, as far as the first aspect is concerned, the first aspect refers to form. This form, first of all, refers to compliance with the Law on Public Registration, where one-sided mortgage agreements are placed, which are, in fact, made statements, if certified by a public notary, or if they are made in the form of a public notary or confirmed by a public notary, have the power of an executive document. When we discussed the Law on Public Records, we discussed how much this new institute means in the legal order of our country. First of all, from the point of view of security and the full protection of citizens who make up a public notebook, and in this case it is mortgage agreements. I would also like to stress that the bill also provides additional security for creditors by those lenders who are inadequately and unintendedly using their assets. In this case, the law is clear and precise and says that the trustee may at the same time seek additional security to compensate for the whole value of the property that is reduced. I must also point out that, for the objective of objectifying the complete process, which relates to the reduction of mortgaged immovableity, the procedure would also be objective in relation to the debtor and the trustee decides the court in the litigation procedure. What I also have to say, of course, is commendable, and that's timing. The paper is the deadline for the auction. The law stipulates that the first auction must be held within six months and, of course, it is intended to be a fully respected principle of transparency for the public, and this transparency and the public is seen in the fact that the public auction must be published at least 30 days before the sale in a high circulation paper relating to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the regional list, in a list of mortgaged immovableities. I must also point out that, in line with the reform of the Republic Geodetic Institute, the Central Mortgage Register, which was promoted in the law, i.e. in the 2005 law, had more declarative meaning than essential, given that the Republic Geodetic Institute had done much to improve the conduct of a single immobility record. Those provisions relating to the Central Register have been completely deleted. I must also point out that this law gives a special accent to an extrajudicial settlement, i.e. an extrajudicial procedure, but it also proposes a deadline, which is also a period of 18 months, unless there is a sale of mortgaged immovableity by way of a court, that the immovableity register puts a note, and that after that, there is no longer a possible sale in an out-of-court procedure, but the mortgage trustee is indicated to resolve this in the executive court procedure. The Serbian Progressive Party in Voting Day will certainly vote to amend and supplement the law, as this is a further compliance with European standards. With the strategic commitment of this government and the SNS to enter the EU, but this law is also very important from the aspect of the protection and partnership of all participants in the mortgage process and from the aspect of a larger momentum, our economic and economic activity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31213	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a law before us that introduces certain anxiety. Whenever conditions change in the banking market, of course, it causes anxiety and the question of whether our position on the market is getting worse, whether it will require some new additional financial commitments to banks and whether we will remain equal in this partner relationship to banks. I think we have one of those laws ahead of us. There has been such anxiety among some MPs and in their discussions in the previous period and, I say, it is quite understandable, but we are now in a dilemma to decide whether to effectively put an end to the mortgage market, or whether we are going to make some changes, strengthen that market and achieve some perspective in the next period. Given the fact that we are among the countries where the loan offer is quite modest, and not only in terms of developed countries, but in relation to countries that are similar to our development, I think that the Executive Authority, the Government, had no choice but to try to strengthen the mortgage market by amending this law and create conditions to increase the offer of credit on our market, and thus to enable faster economic recovery, greater economic activity for all economic operators, by creating conditions to slowly emerge from the crisis in which we are obviously found, by creating conditions and by making some reform moves, which are expected, in some subsequent period of time easier to implement, to leave an alternative to our citizens that, in the case of staying without a job, they can start their own private business, that they can reach certain sources of funding, and it is much more responsible for all of us to apply ourselves to the obligations that we are able to adopt our own families, in terms and in terms of our own, and in terms of our own. So less consumption, more investment in the future, and in this case mortgage credit has its logic. He can contribute to the improvement of the individual and the entire society. The fact is that only about 20%, something over 20% of GDP amounts to the total mass of credit in Serbia, that in the surrounding countries is 40% and 60%, which does not mean that I call on citizens to take loans, but that we have a rather scarce credit market that significantly narrows our development perspectives. Another piece of information is very important, given that 60% of loans are in fact loans to the economy, and that citizens remain about 30-35%, and this law primarily comes to the hands of the economy. I guess that's obvious. The conditions under which mortgages were previously placed, entered this debt-confidential relationship, this time apparently tightened. A small number of citizens, given the uncertain incomes, will enter into such relations, but also the economy, a small economy will have the possibility that in a relatively easy and easy way, if there is already a serious business project, funds will come into play and strengthen its position on the market. I believe that in the future a much greater amount of mortgage loans will go into business compared to citizens, compared to natural persons, and that's good when it comes to this law. What's also important to point out, I think the law itself is a logical continuation of all that work, all of those energies invested in creating one of the Catastres of immovableity. From this Katastra immovableity, of course, this law draws strength and creates the possibility of a large majority of citizens, who have legalized their jobs and their facilities, so that they can compete, apply to these loans. The fact is, on the other hand, that we have a real estate market that is coming up, that today, at least when it comes to Serbia, banks prefer to mortgage land rather than building buildings. Likely, unlike Belgrade, this law leaves one more serious possibility for insiders to reach financial resources for their future small business, and as far as the provisions of the law itself are concerned, there is a good atmosphere in the Assembly, above all, thanks to the minister for having so much understanding for all fellow Members, which is ready to amend this law through amendments. This is what he has repeated several times, and I am sure that he will know that the MPs of the opposition are using it and will make an important contribution to the quality of this law. Certainly a future message to citizens, more seriously when you take a mortgage loan from the bank this time in about 18 months, as defined by the law, will be able to collect their mortgage if you erroneously pay off your loans. It'll have a lot easier mechanisms to make that charge, it'll go to extrajudicial charge, so if you get into this kind of relationship with banks, think hard and know what you're investing in. However, this law should not be regarded as a law that, first of all, goes in favour of banks. This law still has one good part that facilitates the position of debtors. The one who entered a mortgage means a clearer, more transparent relationship, much more precise, in which banks are obliged to treat citizens, towards the debtor himself. A fair relationship, when it comes to a possible price in the sale of immovable property. This is what is very important and the very possibility of making it easier to collect, in itself, with some measures already done when it comes to the reference interest rate, which is slowly slipping and which allows loans to be cheaper, to make the procedure itself cheaper. So we also have a series of benefits that apply to citizens, those who have given good thought, opted for this kind of business relationship with banks, to make it possible, however, in a more favourable way and more clear than they had in the previous period, to come up with certain funds. So, once again, we have a lot of challenges ahead of us. The transition in Serbia, I would say, is not over yet, this socialist self-government spirit, unfortunately still feels in our people, will need more time to move to the market in the economy, so this law also contributes to that. The very fact that uncertainty is ahead of us suggests that both this law and our relationship to banks, i.e. debt confidence relations, will have to be even closer to regulation. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31215	Thank you. The People's MP Boban Birmancevic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Jolovic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31216	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members, respected citizens, modern economy and finance before this ministry, before this government and of course now and before this Assembly, have set certain tasks that we must carry out through this amendment to the Mortgage Act, because simply by the 2005 Mortgage Act, we cannot properly settle mortgage loans or mortgage claims. It is these amendments to the law that will lead to order which has been resolved in the past years by a judicial procedure, and the fundamentally perhaps most important change in this mortgage law refers to the settlement of disputes by agreement, avoiding long court proceedings, simplifying things and simply that will, and I will remind you of a contract on sale or any other contract, where we have a mortgage guarantee, when it is signed, it is the will of two or more parties, and therefore, this law simply simplifies that the will signed by some kind of contract, or by some other kind of guarantee, whether it is a loan, whether it is a guarantee, whether the funds are cash, but it is important that justice is served. Basically, just like this law, what's signed by the will of two or more parties, will be realised as soon as possible. Of course, the clear rules and clear conditions that define this law correspond to both banks and businesses and anyone who thinks well of this country. If banks are able to activate the mortgage more easily, i.e. to exercise their rights and to get more money faster and quality, they will also have more conditions and more opportunities for citizens to offer more favourable loans, and this simply has a different solution, i.e. the gain is that we will get better quality and favourable products from the bank, which will be viewed in cheaper loans. What everyone knows about finance is that banks don't want the last thing they do is just activate the mortgage. The mortgage is the ultimate necessity so far and before this law the bank is trying in every way possible to get money, and just when it comes to the mortgage, it means there is no other way for them to exercise their rights. Greater legal certainty is what will give banks, including future participants in any other business where the mortgage guarantee is more freedom, i.e. it will be safer to invest and work, will just improve the business environment and allow potential investors to enter jobs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia safer and safer and faster. A long time ago, I hope, when millions of euros were given to mortgages that simply weren't worth anything or were worth a hundred times less than the millions of euros they received on those mortgages. This law will help keep it from happening. What this government is doing and this Ministry is really for every praise, through this law, is introducing legal certainty into something that directly affects both the economy and the citizens and the banks and in general a business environment, that is, the environment that exists in Serbia. Of course, in the voting day, this should be supported by all MPs, because there is generally no reason, there is really no reasonable reason not to accept one law simply expressed by the signatories, speeding up its solution, that leads to a short relationship between one side and the other without a court's interference. Of course, if this cannot be solved in another way, all things can still be settled by judicial means. I call upon everyone to, in the interest of citizens, support this mortgage bill, because it's simply the best at this point. It is in line with European flows and is in line with market rules and is therefore acceptable to anyone who thinks well of Serbia's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31217	Thank you. The word has been issued by MP Nikola Jolovic, so let MP Zoran Zivkovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31218	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, a modern economy whose imperative is a constant achievement of economic growth, rests, of course, on a credit mechanism. With the help of consumer loans, it enables the population to immediately spend its future revenues, which raises the current demand and enables production to grow. The credit plays a crucial role in every market economy, especially with us, since the development and restructuring of the economy is unimaginable without foreign credit. Only an efficient system of security for trustees' claims can create very good assumptions for foreign investment, and given the crucial importance of the credit in economic development, it is clear why they were provided for legislative interventions by countries in transition. For the debtor, on the one hand, it is favourable because it is the cheapest way to get the necessary money to start or develop a business activity, where, as a guarantee of the repayment of the credit, credits are normally their own or family property, and not dependent on the jury, the receipts in the company that may be insecure and that credit has, conditionally taken, realistically acceptable, in terms of interest and the payment period, and for the trustee, on the other hand, because the value of the property is generally more than the amount of the loan granted, so it can be quite certain that it will receive debt with all interest and what is now proposed and hopefully soon adopted legal provisions on mortgages and make it possible. This way of lending has been regulated for a decade by the current Mortgage Act, which in a legal sense has shown a number of shortcomings despite its defined provisions on the non-judicial implementation of mortgages and central mortgage records, and, of course, after considering its application, clearly defines its inability to implement it in the new socio-economic circumstances and to follow the rules in force in the EU, which are linked to investors in terms of their desire to achieve profit and security of investment in our country. The objectives of the proposed amendments and complementarity of this law, and following public debates and respect for the opinion of the professional public, are the following: the introduction of clear rules, the elimination of standards which were unworthy and which proved inapplicable in practice, the achievement of a higher level of legal certainty for all participants in the business, compliance with applicable laws, international standards and best international practice. The status of debtors is protected, except for the precisely defined elements on the basis of which the mortgage is granted, and by setting the value for the sale of its assets in the event of inability to recover the funds granted by the trustee and by Article 34 of the Chapter – The right to sell, where it is defined: that the sale can be effected by auction or free sale, that the trustee is obliged to carry out an assessment of the market value of the immobilisation of the authorised court expert, that it can be sold directly by contract until the moment of advertising of auction sales but at a price not less than 90% of the estimated value, that the estimated value at the first auction sale is not less than 75%, and at the second not less than 60% of the estimated price under this law. The status of the trustee shall be protected by the establishment of mandatory elements which must be an integral part of the mortgage and by the procedure and by the method of collection, and where defined by the following: that the competent authority of internal affairs is obliged, without delay, to provide all necessary assistance in the settlement procedure, including access and emigration from the mortgage facility, that, following the implementation of the envisaged procedure, the payment of the claim may be carried out by an outside court or judicial means, and the trustee whose claim is secured by an executive, non-judicial mortgage, shall have the right to choose the legal path to settle his claim. For the conduct and decision of proposals for enforcement based on an executive non-judicial mortgage, the court of general jurisdiction is indeed in charge, regardless of the party's nature in the procedure of this enforcement. The key part of this bill is certainly set out in Article 26. where the most significant amendment of the law is proposed, which in practice has given the most difficulty to trustees, and as regards Article 49, which was prescribed that after the sale of the property of the rights of late and mortgage creditors remain reserved. inscribed, which dissuaded the application of the law, and almost all mortgage creditors referred to a court procedure that did not carry such a danger and legal uncertainty by the trustee. The new text of Article 49 solves the problem in question, as paragraph 2 found that all entered mortgages, as well as other burdens, cease by law enforcement and the competent registries register shall be deleted by official duty, regardless of whether the claim is settled in full, in part or not. It means that the right of the championship is defined as - first in time, first and right, and that a pointless series of possible mortgages is extinguished over the same real estate. Before these changes, we had a situation where the property over which more mortgages were placed could be transferred to the property of the creditor who had given him credit and which was not returned to him, but which then actually receives a property that is under the burden, i.e. a low-price mortgage provided by other mortgagers and who are now asking him for their credit assets and the solution was found in a really long court fee process in which there were problems, the type of jurisdiction of principled court practice, and the whole process was exposed to manipulations and criminal actions, and Article 57 of the current law in paragraph 2 determines that the Republic Geodetic Institute or the Office of Immobility is not responsible for the accuracy and completeness of the data recorded in the central mortgage records. This bill will affect the mortgage activities of all actors of the process, but it will certainly be able to verify and determine the exact state of the property it is interested in and to consider correctly before taking into account the real estate that is under the burden of mortgages, because according to this new solution, a mistake can only be made by a trustee who will agree to a risky investment provided by a transparent mortgage and a precisely defined method of carrying out a mortgage claim. On the basis of the arguments raised, and with respect to the fact that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Mortgage Act has been adopted after public debates and comments and suggestions, some of which have been adopted and introduced into this bill, I believe that the solutions offered in the proposal are correct and necessary from the aspect of compliance with international regulations and norms that define this area, and that they will significantly correct the economic environment and make our country more attractive for attracting foreign investors, so I do not think there are any obstacles to the adoption of this Bill proposal and in the Voting Day of the SNS Group will vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31219	Thank you. The People's MP Zoran Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's MP Marijan Rističević be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31220	The need to change this mortgage bill is obvious because the law is 10 years old, because a lot has changed, because law enforcement has seen some bad things that need to be fixed and it's perfectly normal, but it seems to me that the law isn't perfect. Of course, it's hard to do anything perfect and it needs to be fixed. Already many colleagues have announced amendments and colleagues Pavicevic and I will join them with amendments to Articles 2, 3, 11, 14, 17, 18 and 20. I don't have time to talk about these amendments right now. It'll be in the amendment debate. What is what the Government has defined in its reasoning as the objective of the law? It is the protection of creditors, protection of debtors and the acceleration of economic activity, especially in the construction and investment work in the economy. I think those are high-level targets. Of course, the protection of creditors will be improved and I have nothing against it. I think it's completely wrong to blame the banks for what's going on in one country. Without any ambition to protect banks from anyone and to talk about them any extreme good, it's not the bank's fault in one state, it's the government's fault, and if something's wrong in one country, that responsibility can't be transferred to the banks. The same goes for loans. The fact that interest is large, that credit conditions are unfavourable, that a small number of people can take credit, and the same small number of people can return it within or at any time, it's all the consequence of a general situation in a country that's been going on for a very long time. Therefore, the protection of creditors is certain, and the protection of debtors is firstly not to enter loans without undue need, i.e. not to enter into loans unless they have a fully clear business plan, if these loans are related to the business of some business entities. Of course, citizens are partly to blame for what happened to them because of their ignorance and most citizens are ignorant compared to bank officials and the administration of the bank, but I think what is a failure of the state and in the earlier period and now, it is that it has not warned its citizens about all those traps that exist in the credit agreements. That is why several tens of thousands of people now are now virtually concerned about whether they will be able to repay the loan, or whether they will be able to remain in possession of their property. Nowhere in the world people who are poor can take credit. Credits are taken by those who can secure the return of credit, and the role of the state is to warn citizens that sweet advertising, that big promises - nothing easier, can be credited in 24 hours etc., that it's just advertizing, and that it doesn't have much to do with what credit obligations are. What is necessary to change this is that in the future state warns once again, not only through the words of the governor, but also through the government's active public relations, even with ads, with one type, to warn citizens of the danger of taking credit lightly. What bothers me in this law and where we haven't intervened, it's a normal language thing, but I would ask the promoters that perhaps in some subsequent change the term “hypothetized immobility”, it's so out of the spirit of our language. It's mortgage property. It's mortgaged really something that's, I can see it's gotten a little out of hand. I don't blame this minister and you besides him for that, but I think it's an expression that's completely inappropriate to our law. If the amendments proposed by Mr Pavicevic and I are accepted, we will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31221	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The People's MP Marijan Rističević has the word, and let the MP Milan Petrovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31222	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, if my fellow farmer and his colleague were to allow me to speak in this House, I would say a word about this law, given that at the last session, my right to speak was disputed, so that it was almost an incredible request to me, and a number of parliamentary groups. Believing that at a certain point, the state would help them, believing that there would be some stability, etc. The entire economic policy and the financial policy they led led led to citizens taking loans from one of the banks, but their businessmen, called the businessmen, were raising loans to banks like Agrobanka, the Vojvodine Development Bank, where the mortgage was an honorable word, the mortgage was a waste, the mortgage was nothing. Then we came in a position to pay the millionaire's debts, and these are, of course, you know for Bogicevic, for his companies, interest-millionaires started paying millions, then the Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks, which is financed from the budget, had to make up for all the minuses made by Vojvodina Development Bank, Agrobanka, etc. There was the mortgage, there was the mortgage, there was the mortgage, there was something that was not chargeable, and simply the citizens came into a position that they had to service their interest and their loans, to lose certain properties, to lose houses and property, and on the other hand they had to service debts so-called. Entrepreneurs, or large businessmen who existed during the rule of the party of the former regime. Their loans are measured in hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros, which have remained unreturned and which, of course, must be returned by those who can't repay their loans already, but are forced to return the loans of millionaires to whom the former regime has allowed. The party itself has made a mortgage of, I think, the Vojvodine Development Bank, the former regime's party, as a loan mortgage in the election campaign, that they will return it in 2012, of course, if they won the elections then, and the only means of security that was -- my mother will return it to me, that's the only thing that she pawned when she took it, I think, a few million euros she spent in the election campaign trying to preserve power. Later, when they were caught on that Sunday, they tried to secure the loan, however, because there was a change in government to provide some of their personal properties, which is also justice, since from that party, from the party of the former regime, it was this group of people who advocated their real estate that had the right financial benefit, and their responsibility for the failure of banks that were not controlled by foreign banks, for the failure of banks where the state had their participation, their responsibility is immeasurable, because certainly that Bogicevic, this Percevic and the other called businessmen did not receive these loans on a honorable note, in vain, in no stock, without the participation of politicians from that period, and their responsibility for this is immeasurable. I don't think that the hand of justice has yet to come to those who in this way have assigned citizens through the Bank Rehabilitation Agency, who have to pay not only their debts, but they have to pay the debts of the millionaire. So that millions of poor, robbed citizens during the former regime's party are now loitering in debt, losing their property, and besides, they also have to return the loans from these so-called entrepreneurs, whose loans have been granted to the unfavorable, but not from banks seeking adequate security funds, but from those banks where the state is, i.e. The former regime's party then had no doubt control. What I'm saying is that this mortgage that we inherited from them is almost incredible, that they spent, I don't know how much money. That money didn't go through production, it went directly to consumption, to supposedly a fictitious increase in pensions, which led us to now have to save, to live off the earned and to return what they left us as a mortgage, what they used to spend when they were living off the man in charge. The main product of the former regime was a debt, and this is the mortgage they left us with, and when the party of the former regime was in debt, the people were mortgaged, the people were signing a note, and I think they were mortgaged by our entire people and our entire state by foreign banks and other financial organisations, while the unfavorable banks they had under state control, giving funds to themselves, their party and their alleged entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31223	Thank you. The People's MP Milan Petric has the word, and let the MP Milija Miletic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31224	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Mortgage Act is needed, and these changes and complement it only fill and make it a serious continent. The proposed amendments and additions, and through the extended powers of banks, avoids going to court in a certain part, and hence the costs that are inevitable in the process, in order to better and faster achieve the right of mortgage creditors and to settle their debt relations. Thus, these amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act accelerate the realization of the acquired, i.e. rights already established. However, the Serbian People's Party is of the opinion that, in the case of access to the sale of mortgage property, it should be mandatory to first approach the sale through competition, or auction, so that if the first auction is unsuccessful, it is only then to access the direct sale. This is also the core of our amendments, because we believe that auction is a realistic market solution and that this makes it possible to achieve a higher amount of demand. We must exhaust the possibility of auctions, primarily because of the settlement of senior mortgage creditors, even though it is possible for all creditors. We should be interested in all mortgages, and we believe that this is the way this change and supplement of the Mortgage Act would actually result in a democratic order. On the grounds of Article 25(5), The Mortgage Act, the Proposer did not specify which of the documents set out in Article 2, paragraph 2, because there are three points in the documents. If only all the documents in that article are considered, and hence the written statement of the mortgage trustee that he agrees to print the mortgage, which he is obliged to give, if the claim is paid in full, as provided for in that article, it turns out that mortgages that are not actually settled in whole, but in part are not obliged to make the stated statement under the law. As the legislator further provides, it is a cadasar's obligation that, on the basis of a request to delete a document, not a certain one, to delete a mortgage, and parallelly remains the possibility for mortgage creditors who are not fully calmed that they do not have to give a statement, i.e. the consent to delete. The question arises as to how the application of this member to the immovable cadastre, on which and which documents will allow the obligation of a mortgage in a situation where there are several mortgage creditors that are not fully settled and therefore do not have to give consent to delete? We think that this is the key part and that this should be the subject of amending and supplementing today's law, and if not, possibly someone next, that you have in mind. We also believe that the possibility of filing an action against the Administrative Court against a final act brought by appeal for a first-degree catastra solution, because the application to the Constitutional Court is not delayed and does not automatically prevent further sales proceedings. Also, the possibility of verifying the legality of both solutions through administrative dispute by the Administrative Court and full protection of rights should not be abolished. As Honorable colleague Neđo Jovanovic has already mentioned and noted that the Law on Mortgage is in collegiate with the Law on Notaries, we believe that you, ministers, are still right, no offense, of course, and that the amendments should be implemented in the Law on Notaries, because you have offered a better, fairer and more professional solution. Otherwise, the Serbian People's Party will present its position on amendments to the Mortgage Law after the amendments are discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31225	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31226	Thank you. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I'll talk about amendments to the mortgage law. Otherwise, the 2005 Mortgage Act has introduced significant newspapers into this area. But in the course of law enforcement, there have been some problems in practice that need to be regulated by changes and additions, which relate to uncertain procedures and too long to implement enforcement. Problems have arisen regarding the practice of courts of general jurisdiction and economic courts. They interpreted the jurisdiction in the enforcement procedure differently, leading to great uncertainty and unequal behaviour in the same enforcement links in question on the basis of the non-judicial mortgage. As a result of this problem, the Supreme Court of Cassation concluded in 2010 that the conduct and decision on proposals for execution based on a non-judgmental mortgage was indeed subject to the general jurisdiction of the court, regardless of the party's property in the enforcement procedure. The main objective of the proposed amendments to the Mortgage Act is to ensure greater economic and legal certainty and the guarantee of the collection of claims secured by the mortgage on immovable property in case the debtor fails to settle the claim. Market conditions for business, change in society and economy, privatisation, change of social property in private property, conditioned the improvement of the credit mechanism, as well as the condition for the development of a modern economy. The loan accelerates investment in all areas, accelerates housing, construction and opening of industrial plants, the development of the entire economy, entrepreneurship and agriculture. Consumer credit allows the population to spend its future income, while at the same time affecting demand on the market and then enables production to grow. This closes a circle, and modern economy accelerates and advances in development. Today, credit is the basic basis of the economy, and the more credit lending is developed in one country, the more the need for more secure credit security arises. This loan security must be effective and tailored to a concrete economy. In all transition countries the importance of credit and all these countries, including ours, had to provide and build modern and efficient security systems for trustees. Credit plays a very important role in the market economy, and this is especially the case with us, because various economies and the process of restructuring the economy are practically unimaginable without foreign credits. No foreign investor will risk their capital or invest in our economy unless there is a safe and efficient way to secure it. We have regulated the mortgage system, but it is necessary that these amendments and additions of the Law make the system more modern and efficient. The proposed amendments will establish a guarantee of the payment of claims, i.e. the security of trustees through the provision of immovable property. These creditors are mostly banks and other financial organisations. This creates a mechanism for citizens and businesses to come up with favourable loans, which is a prerequisite for increasing consumption, and thus also for developing the economy. Enabling favourable loans also speeds up housing, as many families will thus reach apartments and roofs over the head by applying a special type of mortgage on building facilities. The basic amendment of this law refers to further simplification of immovableity, especially those used for commercial purposes through leases. We are thus deleted from the provisions on the consent of the third party and the publishing statement when it comes to the direct holder of the immovable property. There are also significant changes concerning the ban on the entry of new mortgages and other burdens after the entry of the note, mortgage sales, the erasure of mortgages and other rows after the out-of-court sale of immovable property. This new law with amendments and additions will allow for a better position of creditors in the Serbian market, protection of debtors, i.e. mortgage property owners, acceleration of financial and economic activity in the country, especially all types of construction and investment in the economy and an effective demand security system. The proposed legislative solutions will also have an impact on banks and other financial organisations, citizens, companies, entrepreneurs, state authorities. Since I come from a municipality that belongs to a fourth group of underdevelopment, the municipalities that are very important in the development of agriculture, and like my municipality of Svrlig, so are the other municipalities in the area, this law is very important for all of us, because this way we can get more favourable loans, and that the land and buildings in our territories can be mortgaged. In this way, people can provide their resources and make these loans more favourable, and people who mortgage in this way can provide for themselves and their family more quality conditions through investments, by restoring the machinery and all that is important. The United Peasant Party, whose representative I am here in parliament, I will vote in favour of this bill because I think this way we will have the opportunity to speed up agricultural production and thus our agricultural producers can provide new machinery, provide re-promatter, provide new facilities in which they can work and deal with agriculture and not depend on some third party where things are much worse for them. Otherwise, as for the municipality where I come from, the municipality of Srlig, there's a good chance of investing in investors. These investors who come to us would not want to be as they were in the previous period, where, through investing in some existing facilities, they mortgaged these facilities and thus damaged the state of Serbia, and in some of our facilities where some previous businessmen invested the mortgage was an object, and the Vojvodine Development Bank should now repay those debts. Therefore, I think this law is the law that needs to accelerate the development of the economy, and thus agriculture and that all our agricultural producers can mortgage their assets and take better, healthy loans with less interest so that they can speed up their agricultural production. I will vote in favour of this bill, as a representative of the United Peasants' Party, and I am sure that this law will help, as well as other laws, to make our country go a better and faster path for the better tomorrow and for our agriculture and our economy. I think these laws that our government has proposed are the laws that lead our country forward to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31227	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic. Here you go, Dr. Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31228	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as a person who spent her entire working life in the judiciary doing legal work, I will look back on the proposed amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act, but more from the legal point of view. In fact, the completion of the project of the catastra of immovableity at the Republic Geodetic Institute allowed the records of immovableity and right over them to be kept in one place. By further improving the databases and records of immovableities and rights above them, it has been made publicly available to users, and it has ceased the need for provisions that regulate the central mortgage records, which did not even exist in accordance with the law, and in particular given that the entry into such records has only a declarative character and does not assume the accuracy of the enrolment, leading to the fact that users cannot rely on such data. The question arises - what claims can be secured by a mortgage? All claims, including future or constitutional claims. When it comes to monetary claims, of course, money claims can also be provided, and so it is expressed in domestic and foreign currency, of course interest. However, if the mortgage agreement does not specify exactly what interest is involved, only the interest entered in the immovableity register may be the subject of the payment, i.e. the legal tightening interest from the moment of the fall in late. It's changing the form of a mortgage contract. According to the current law, the importance of this contract was sufficient to be written in writing and that the signatures of the parties were certified by the court or by another competent authority authorised to approve the signature. However, according to the proposed amendments and additions, the mortgage contract shall be concluded in the form of a public notary or a publicly certified standardized document. A newspaper in a law or a provision under which a mortgage trustee or several of them may authorise one among themselves or a third party who, instead of all of them, will carry out all mortgages, however, will then be entered in the register by the name of only one authorised person. The out-of-court settlement shall be triggered by a note in writing by the mortgage trustee to the simultaneous debtor and the owner of the mortgage immovableity, provided that it is not the same person and is left to them for 30 days to pay their debt, in which case the procedure will cease to run. However, if these persons are deaf about the first warning, then the second warning is delivered, after 30 days have elapsed. This time, next to these faces, another reminder is delivered to other mortgage creditors, of course, because they too need to collect their claims from the mortgage. At the end of and this time limit, the mortgage trustee will send the immovableity register of the request to make a record of the mortgage sale in his favour, and that will be done within seven days, however, must be accompanied by certain evidence: a copy of the notice of sale of immovable property, a copy of the mortgage contract, a statement that the debtor did not fulfil the debt until the date of registration, evidence that the first and second notices were sent in good time, or received, both by the debtor and the owner of the immovable property and other mortgage creditors. At the end of a further 30-day period, the trustee, based on the solution, can access the sale in two ways – either through auction or through direct contract. However, by choosing one way of selling it does not mean that if it is not appropriate in the course of the sale, it cannot be sold in another way. However, everything has its own duration, so this sale in the out-of-court procedure cannot exceed 18 months, or is limited in time. The trustee can organise the auction sale himself, but he can also trust the person, or company, who is particularly authorized to do so. The law, however, is required to notify the debtor within 15 days of the conclusion of the sale contract. The hypothetical trustee who implements the contract on the sale of mortgage immovable property will enter the mandatory amount of the purchase price, as well as the provisions on settlement, which first cover the costs of sale from the assets received, and then demand mortgage creditors according to the order of registration, as well as the provision by which the surplus of the funds achieved by the sale is returned to the mortgage debtor. All these provisions that provide for amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act have arisen as a need to monitor social changes. Namely, the market conditions of engagement, transition and privatisation, the disappearance of social property and its conversion into private property have led to a modern economy. The modern economy, meanwhile, whose imperative is to continuously achieve economic growth, rests on the credit mechanism, and only an efficient demand and security system for trustees can create assumptions for foreign investment. That is why in the voting day, I will support all the proposed amendments and additions to the Mortgage Act, and I am sure that all my colleagues from the SNS will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31229	Thank you, Mrs. Simic. Now I'm setting a break until 3:45, so we're back to work at 3:45. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Why don't you finish? Mr. Granny, do you want to talk? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I don't want to. Why don't you finish your session on the agenda? Mr. Granny, we don't have anyone else. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: finish the point.) We're done, Mr. Granny. We continue our new session at 3:45 p.m. with government issues. It's over. We're out of word. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Tell us about it.) I'm sorry, you're right, Mr. Granny. Mr. Risticevic tells me too. We didn't get along. I've completed the list of speakers. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled debate on the proposal for a law. Like I said, we keep working at 3:45.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31230	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I would remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, by giving a change of word first to Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31231	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask all 10 questions, if I get there in three minutes, I'm going to ask the Prime Minister. The first question is, in the 2012 campaign, it was promised that the electricity price would be 20% lower, and the prime minister said in August last year that the electricity will not collect until it finds who steals 18% of the electricity in Serbia. My question is, since the current was collected the other day – do you know who stole 18% of the power and what measures will be taken against the thieves? The second issue was a promise in the campaign, so on April 24th, when the new government was elected, the public debt was 21 billion, 50 million, and some million, and today it is public debt over 25 billion euros, and the promise was to cut the debt. Since the debt is obviously not reduced, I'm interested in how does the Prime Minister explain this phenomenon that the reduction of the debt actually appears as an increase? In the 2014 campaign, it was promised that there would be no more party employment, which is absolutely not true and here is an example of this building itself where we are sitting, the Serbian Parliament, where in the last three years the number of employees from 352 rose to over 500. My question is, of course, tens of thousands of others in other public institutions, my question is when will it be stopped party employment? On December 19th 2013, the prime minister promised, then acting Deputy Prime Minister, that Mercedes would arrive in March 2014. Everything's going to be on Google and in the press archives, Mercedes as an investor in Icarbus didn't make it to this day, and I'm asking when it's going to happen because it didn't happen? A helicopter. It means the loss of the helicopters and the people who were in it. I sent 10, 11 issues to the Prime Minister on 17 March about the subject, sorry, April of the month, not March of the month, 10 or 11 issues related to the topic. I didn't get an answer until today, which is usually against the Rules of Procedure, so I'm wondering why there's still no official report on the accident? On September 10th, 2012, the then Prime Minister said, and now the prime minister, we will not wait longer than a few months for the work on Tent 3 and the Hydropower Plant to start on Morava. It's 2015 today, and there's nothing from those two plants. 12. 12. In 2013, then Deputy Prime Minister, now the prime minister said - by the end of June of next year we expect a large aircraft component factory in Panchev to be opened. None of that happened. The same question – why? A year ago, more precisely 16 February last year, you will see in March that "Belgrade on Water" is advertised not on our money but on other people's money, not on our media, but on CNN. There is no advertising for "Belgrade on Water" on CNN or on any other media except domestic media. My question is, why? The ninth question is – what about secret contracts for Fiat, Etihad and Belgrade on water? And, on the tenth question, seven or eight people were arrested a few months ago as executors of money laundering or violations of tax laws with several phantom companies, including the Asako firm. My question is, what about these people, except they're in custody? Is there any procedure against them, and if so, what level has it reached?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31232	Ambassador, you've exceeded your time. I apologize to the other MPs for not reacting immediately. The word is made by Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31233	First of all, I would like to thank the MPs for their attention and for seeing us today to answer all your questions. I apologize that every last Thursday of the month we couldn't answer everything you wanted to ask. We know it's our responsibility. We know that we answer much more often than all previous governments have, but I ask you to understand both the set of circumstances and the gravity of the general political situation that we have found ourselves in, that was one reason, but as you can see, we had time to come before you in the first week of July and to answer every question of yours. I'll try to answer all the ten points you mentioned. It's my duty. Somewhere you're right, most of it's wrong, so I'll try to point out the facts. First of all, as far as electricity prices are concerned, the price of electricity, and I'm surprised that you didn't mention the price of oil, the price of gas and everything else that's cheaped up in this country, but it's usually your manner of just seeing bad things without seeing good things. Then if you were to tell me that the price of oil and the price of gas is going down because of the world market, then the price of electricity on the world market is triple that of our country. Unconnected to that, yes, we tried to recover the entire system after the great floods and after the destruction of our complete electrical power system, we tried to recover it, to recover the entire system without additional burdens for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We've done most of the work. In the winter season we had fewer exclusions and proportional population and in absolute number of minutes and hours per capita, less than one Germany. So, after the total destruction of the energy system, the inability to use coal mines in the West Dark, not to talk about everything we've been going through, through TENT, the inability to produce electricity and everything else. So, we managed to ensure that the increase in electricity according to what we have, I don't like to say it imposed, but as the first part of the IMF programme is said to be important for the recovery of the electricity industry itself and as additional guarantees for the strength of the Republic of Serbia's budget, because, as you know, it is divided into excise and the price of electricity itself. We fought just knowing how hard it is for people and citizens to live to make it as low as possible and we managed to do it. The inflation level in 2014 was 1.8%. One of the lowest in Europe, which is not always good for every economy. We're expecting something higher this year, and I'm afraid we won't be able to secure a higher inflation rate again. As far as public debt is concerned, it's not accurate, I'm telling you today's data, 23,730,000,000. So I'm reading them very carefully here from the computer right now. It's not accurate, but you have to keep one thing in mind that I want, and I'm sure you didn't say it on purpose, to try and explain it to you. In fact, in the euro, our debt has grown formally, but it has grown precisely because of the difference in the rate between dollars and euros, which I'm sure you know, and maybe someone else doesn't know, but you do. So, we're not in the money, and we still have if I'm not wrong, and I'm going to try to get the exact number to give you $681,000,000. That's the money we have on us, and that's the money we pay back the dollar loans. So it costs us as a state, as citizens of Serbia nothing. The other thing is, we're on paper, something we have nothing to do with, and we're not in any way guilty of anything. As far as public debt is concerned, so that people in Serbia understand that part of the MPs understand, that's why I boast certain results, and I think, for the first time in front of you, the honourable MPs today will say something , and that is that we managed to ensure in June that in the end with the June month, the total fiscal deficit in the Republic of Serbia was 26.7 billion dinars and it was planned to be 105 billion in agreement with the IMF, and 126 billion in last year in the first six months. [[Applause]] So, a hundred billion dinars is a better result than last year, and look for yourself, almost 80 billion dinars, is a better result than what the IMF would accept as a good result. What does this mean, that the common people would understand? Just for as long as we're doing better, we'll have less in charge this year. In order for people to understand, not every paper show of value is the new borrowing you'll see in public debt. One part of that is roll over, so where we're trying to get a more favourable debt back to what was an unfavourable borrowing. Always count on us to end up in debt as much as our deficit and not to be told by someone, and I'm trying for the third or fourth time in the National Assembly to say, so our public debt is growing to a sum of 79.80% of GDP, then it's going to go down, maybe even until then, depending on how successful we are in the privatisation process, etc. It's something that, when you have inherited, when it goes down, then you have to stop and slowly turn in the other direction. All the measures we've been taking, all the heavy measures we've just taken for that. The International Monetary Fund predicted that at the end of 2017, this public debt spiral turned in the opposite direction and that the public debt was beginning to decrease, and I want to tell you that I am sure that it will be safe before the end of 2017 and that you will be able to see it, because this year, it was planned, if I am not mistaken, Minister Vujović, firstly, to take, not to talk about the roll over, but to talk about significant resources for the task and where we should pray for the lowest interest rates and the longer "maturity" period. So we're supposed to be looking in February, March, then April, and we haven't asked for that yet. What we've been looking for so far is mostly covering old foreign savings and roll over, so finding, changing bad better loans. So that's about public debt. I think that the results we have achieved, in terms of the fiscal deficit, and I have checked it today, things should be, according to the data available to us, that in the first six months of the fiscal deficit, by the state of the budget deficit, the general state, I do not speak the consolidated state, because of course we have problems at the level of local self-government, but by the state of the general state, in terms of the Republic of Serbia, we are in the first six countries on the European continent, which is another non-EU country, there are only some EU members left ahead of us. I think it's a big, important and serious success that gives us a wide fiscal space that in the coming period we can do a lot more for our citizens in terms of salary and pension increases, but also for other major projects. If we have projects, and I'd talk about it later, because it's the biggest cancer of our country's wounds, if you want our society, in every sphere of social life. As for party employment, I accept that such things happen in many places. In the Serbian government, there was no such thing, even in the General Secretariat and the Joint Affairs Administration, which I checked before this session, is less employees than it was last year at the same time. In the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you said there were 352, now 500, and I got the information that it was 407, and now it's 409. I certainly agree, I got official information, but I certainly agree that it's not good. I absolutely agree with you that it's not good and that we're going to have to work on it. Two things after such good results, I am convinced that you will have that opportunity, if you want me to say, and that honor, that in the coming period of perhaps the most important officials of the world, you will hear what they think of Serbian economic reforms. We haven't done two things right yet. We've run one, and one, I'm afraid, we haven't touched at all. The one we started, which doesn't go at the speed we'd like, is the privatisation process, and it's the process of finishing off the blood sucking from those who have failed for decades, but who probably have this blackmailing capacity that every time you say it's over, they can collect 100 or 200 people and tell you, we're strikein' now, and you're doing what you want with us. It's a rule of our poor economy for years, it's trying to buy political points, and in fact the economy is left to be bad, to be sick, to be seriously ill, and to be hard to get away with. That's one of the things we started. It's going better than before, but it's not good enough yet. The better it goes, the fact that we didn't invest a single dime in a chemical complex, it's three large companies this year, so "Azotara", MSK, Petrochemy. It's said that we didn't give a single new dinar in "Zelezar", and in time we allocated 10m euros at the monthly level, $10m, I apologize, eightm were then, and now it's 9.2m euros. Anyway, huge money. As far as this public sector issue is concerned, I'm going to tell you a secret about how difficult it is and how bad it is. When you talk about it, to report people from certain sectors and ministers from all areas of social life, how many people can fire, which we don't need, because we want to make a more effective state, try to secure these people a job somewhere, or subsidize their education, change of business, anything, when you ask the minister and everything else, there's no answer. No one's up for it, because everyone hears from everyone, uh, they want to fire, no one's going to say, 'cause everyone's going to be hit by their neighbors and their friends and their newspapers and everyone else, because we're all acting unfair. We all act like the worst hypocrites in this matter. No one came to say, sorry, congratulations on your hard work. I repeat to you today, do you know why Serbia today can allow itself to be politically involved with certain things that are happening in the world? It can, because it is highly respected for the difficult and serious and responsible reforms it has undertaken, and everyone in the world respects it. You will hear it, as you have heard from Steinmeyer, Zigmar Gabriel and Gerd Miller, I tell you now, you will hear in a few days from Angela Merkel. They'll criticize us for everything else, but I'm telling you, it's a thing you'll undoubtedly hear from the German Chancellor. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's a question that, regardless of the numbers I've put out, I'm more in agreement with you than with those who tried to deny you the numbers. As for Mercedes, I'm afraid you're not familiar with the fact that Icarbus works very hard. They have already delivered seven ordinary buses, and Icarbus is otherwise a company that has not worked, which we found destroyed and destroyed, which has lost 950 employees from 1,250 to 290 employees, inherited, gave them a job and they are currently working with the support of the Serbian government 46 Mercedes buses. So 46 Mercedes buses and delivery deadlines are September, November and December. All 46 buses will be delivered in time. So, the Zemun "Ikarbus" is doing Mercedes buses and you will soon see them on the streets of Belgrade, on the streets of Novi Sad, on the streets of Panchev, on the streets of Lazaretsa, so, which belongs to Belgrade, but "Lasta" Lazarevačka has also sought, so you will see the results of both our work and the results of the Zemun workers "Ikarbus". As for the helicopter, I think I'm going all the way in the way you've set up. The National Military Commission has examined it, delivered all its findings to the D.A., and the prosecution is in charge of the process, and we no longer have any reports, statements that we are giving to you, and we know who is in charge of it. We who do politics have nothing to talk about anymore. I can tell you something else, thanks to the very serious, good results we have achieved in the first six months of this year, we have a significant fiscal space and we will invest in strengthening the forces of the MUP and the Army of the Republic of Serbia. We'll buy two plus two helicopters this year, so two Russian and two German helicopters, and we'll talk about the possibility of buying and additional German, Italian helicopters in 2016. It's mostly transport helicopters and rescue helicopters, because we're getting ready for drought season. We'll have big problems, of course, we expect it in August of the month, first of all, because of the droughts that await us and the state will have to react there and that's what I can tell you about it. As for energy facilities, so we started building the first important energy facilities after 30 years, everything is going according to plan in Kostolc, and I believe it will be Serbia's new power, but again I have to say, for one thing you are right that I am not able to explain today. It's not what you asked, I can't explain why we haven't raised a question yet or ended the question of Stavlja and the construction of a thermal power plant in Stavlje, I don't have an answer to that question. I have no answer as many answers as I have heard, and believe me, at a seven-day level, I ask that question, and as Prime Minister, I still have no answer to that question because I think Stavalj is a partial solution to the problem for Resavica, a partial solution to the problem for all the mines in Pomoravlje, and at the same time solves significant problems with the supply of coal in the future, and not to say how significant it is not only for the Shadow Community, but I would say, for the entire cave highlands and for the whole of this largely undeveloped end of our country. As for "Beograd on Water" and advertising, of course we had a very good commercial on both SNN and on many other media for "Belgrade on Water", so good that I didn't believe it myself, but as far as I was informed 17 of the 18 families that needed for the first A phase to do eviction with 17 was agreed, with another family to negotiate, we expect that today or tomorrow these talks will be completed, everything will be ready and there will be no delay. As for the secret contracts for "Fiat", don't ask me, ask your partners from the party you went to the election with. They blacked out that contract and we have a problem with it, because since I've been listening to all the stories and fairy tales here in that contract is more money than in all the other contracts that we've mentioned here together, but I can't talk about it and act like someone who's a good host, because we want to keep "Fiyat" here, we want that if there's going to be a recovery of the world market in cars we want to continue this cooperation, we help as much as we can, but only that you have in mind that it's not my fault, but those who signed such a contract, a contract that contains a clause of secrecy. So ask those who previously signed such a contract. As far as airlines are concerned, we haven't been able to finish making Erbas components, but we're talking to Erbas again, with three of their sectors, so with their commercial sector, we're talking to their defence sector. I can't remember the name of the third sector, I don't suppose it's particularly important to you, and we expect their entry and great co-operation with our Momo Stanojlovic on making nine, and you know as a former member of the federal government and prime minister in the Republic government, you know how important it is to do nine of our G4, so, Galeb 4, one should be done in Bavaria, eight immediately here in Serbia, to establish long-term co-operation with Momo Stanojlovic. Our friends from the West also want to co-operate with "Yugoimport-SDPR" in terms of going out to third markets. As you can see, weapons fighting are being fought around the world and tools are being sold well, obviously everyone wants a share in that market and apparently wants to co-operate with Serbian companies, which I think is good. Whether we can use it or not, that's another question, because I'm afraid we haven't been able to use it yet, and we haven't been able to make enough use of our capacities. That's what I was trying to answer. As for the last question and the Sumako firm, I don't know how far it came and how it came. Simply, the Ministry of the Interior, or above all, the Prosecutor's Office is doing its job, I think it's serious crimes, but of course Mr Stefanovic and someone else can answer you. I think I've answered every one of your questions this way, but what's most important, therefore, is that I end up with all these issues, the public debt, we have no danger of any bankruptcy or excessive rise in the level of public debt. This type of geometric progression has been stopped. He's going to grow in arithmetic for a while. I believe already in the first half of 2017 that we will succeed in turning this in the opposite direction, and this will be the historic success of Serbia, not this government or any other government, and I hope that no next government with its irresponsible behaviour will bring Serbia into a situation that has to be treated for years by the severe disease that any government has left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31234	First, Zoran Zivkovic has the right to comment or an additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31235	That's right. You gave me answers to questions I didn't ask and not get into it, but let me remind you anyway what I asked. My question is, who stole 18% of the power? You said until we found out who's stealing it, the power won't pick up. It's true that the price of gas has fallen. It's true there were some oscillations in the price of oil derivatives, but we're more expensive than the environment, but that's not the topic. I asked who stole 18% of the power? We'll cut the borrowing, I'll accept it's maybe 20, I accept that 23 billion is 700 million, but that's still an increase. (Alexander Vukic, from the site: This is a reduction in borrowing. No, no, 21 billion was when you took over the government. That, the exchange rate, the dollar, the euro, wasn't me in debt to the Emirates in dollars, it was your government, and it was already known what was going to happen here. I don't want to challenge you with such reactions, I'm just repeating questions. (Alexander Vukic, from the city: You don't understand that. It's possible, anything is possible, that I don't understand you, it's also possible. Dismissing and stopping party employment, I said since 2012 when it was 352 for the Assembly, that is the least of the problems, the bigger problem is maximum public sector employment, perhaps not in the government's secretariat, but that government secretariat is the smallest part of the public sector, as well as this example for the Assembly. Much bigger problems are those brought not only from this authority but from 2004 to today, and we have over 200,000 new employees, 150 000 – 200,000 new employees from 2004 to today. What about them? If the EPS didn't have extra employees, it wouldn't have to increase the price of electricity because it would cut costs, and what we have is the lowest price of electricity, it's totally natural because here is the lowest standard and it affects electricity prices. About the helicopter, I asked you these questions, I told you, I didn't get answers in April of the month, and I didn't get them now. Forty-six Mercedes buses in Icarbus are being made in Icarbus by a bus with a Mercedes engine for 20 years. You were talking about Mercedes getting into Icarbus in a way that would buy it. Hydro power plants, you didn't tell me, you said you were asking questions for a thermal power plant or a hydro power plant, not the prime minister's job to ask questions, but to answer questions. The airline parts factory...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31236	Thank you. Three minutes. The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31237	I'm sorry that my best and greatest effort to respond in the most beautiful way and try to explain what everyone seems to understand, you don't want to accept. I won't use any hard words or want to attack you in any way, I'll try to answer you one more time. I never said Mercedes would buy Icarbus. I was at the opening when he was director of Mercedes with me, at the opening of the drive that was supposed to represent and which today represents a strategic partnership between Mercedes and Icarbus, not privatisation and purchase by Mercedes. Don't say anything I never said, and Mercedes's buses will see citizens of all major cities before the end of the year, those Mercedes buses will be produced in Zemun, where some who were before us didn't leave a stone on the stone. So it's going to be produced and that's the difference between us and you. Secondly, we still have 16% of those who don't pay for electricity today. I can't tell you everything, I can't tell you everything because, but I'm going to talk about our habits. Do you want to talk about how many of our people in Kosovo and Metohija don't want to pay for electricity, you want me to give you these details, I don't think there's any need. Do you want me to give you details of how much it is when the whole Paracin jumps when "Srbigas" tries to settle its account, although the glass factory is privatized, it carries the Bulgarian money, everything is fine, but the gas does not pay. When you say we'll turn off the gas, we'll take your highway. The same is true of electricity. We were able to raise the power, the level of charge by 4.5%. We'll increase that in the future. Many have stolen, many have kidnapped, and if some steal today, you will see, how much, in a very short period. As for the price change, for the people to see what hypocrisy it is, I will now read the dates when and how much the price of electricity is increased and then people will see what we are actually facing today. On March 1, 2000, well, come on since 2001, 15.04. In 2001, 36.9% was an increase in electricity prices, not 10% or 12%, but 36.9. To that 01.06, only a month and a half later, for an additional 40%, cumulatively 90%, so at one point, 09.10. In 2001, four months later, another 15% increase in electricity prices, 01.07. In 2002, an additional 50% increase in electricity prices, further 15% in 01.07.2003, 01.07.2004, further 13.1%), 01.07.2005, 9.5%, 01.04.2006, 15%, 15.05.2007, 15%. To talk about these last years, in 2010 on 1 March 10%, 1 April, just a year later, so, in 2011, another 15.1% and you give us a lecture, you give us lessons today about why after the biggest disaster of nature that hit Serbia and after the crisis in which we came almost to bankruptcy, thanks to the state in which you left us, how we dared to agree, or if you will, and under someone's pressure, increase the price of electricity after such difficulties we faced. That doesn't make any sense, and inflation is at 1.5% today. So there's no price hike. You can make them up in your newspaper and I don't know where, where they are, on the second stop, there are reductions, and for two years we haven't had any inflation, which was never in our country. Which will say that there is essentially no price hike, perhaps some products, other products have reductions at the same time, but since this is very precise, there is no lie, no fraud. You said it - it's normal because it's the lowest standard. I would not agree with that, but we will wait, of course, for the overall exit from the crisis to see all the numbers, to see these pensions, which are very difficult to survive, are very small than in Romania and Bulgaria, in EU countries. Maybe you'll say it's small. We spend as much as we have, and we don't want to spend more than we've earned, like some others have done, to win the election. We don't care about that. We're gonna make a healthy economy, and the way things are, I think we're moving in the right direction. I want to read to you, this for a debt, to read accurate data, to hear how right I was, not because I was right, because I'm at the source of information, so I can tell you, to see how real we are, for real money, how real the money we've increased our debt in the last six months, so, since the beginning of the year. I'm talking real money, not roll-over, by currency, precisely. That's $28 million, $28.949.000, $35,615,000 and 26 billion. That's what your deficit level is. I'm always telling you, that's exactly our 26.27 billion deficit. So we didn't take anything else. We have money to understand why I said you didn't understand, that you knew how lucky that money was that we got from Emirat. As God, please, as responsible people, don't let us do this against the friends of this country. So please as God. Why am I saying that? So that you, the honourable Messengers of the people, may understand what I am talking about. We keep those dollars. We don't spend it now to cover the budget deficit. We're mostly, as you can see, going to the dinar bonds to cover this little deficit we have. We always go at a significantly lower rate than the one we had in the previous period. We take very careful care of our finances, our government wallet. What is it that we do with those dollars that we got from Emirat, from Sheikh Muhammad at 2% of the age or the deadline for the full commitment. We use it to pay back interest from dollar loans, so we don't feel a fundamental difference in the euro rate per dollar. It's kind of a hedgehog. So we use it as a hedge operation because we have money. That's how we protect our country from exchange rates, and we do it in a maestro way. This is what you can see for yourself. You can't see it in real money. In real money, you can only see how well we're doing, but when they transfer paper or bureaucratic to how much in euros we owe you, you think we owe you more. No, we're not. We're not in the right money. So that's the bottom line, to understand, so favourable loans, now the IMF tells us – if you succeed, Vuker, ask Sheikh Muhammad to give you another billion in this way we recognise you immediately as a result of structural reforms 57 million, and that as structural savings in interest, 57 million euros on an annual basis. So, right now, the second the IMF signs, and we're able to talk nonsense because we don't know anything, I'm not talking about you right now, I'm talking about a lot of other people pretending to know something about it, and they don't know anything, we're saying anything and we're coming to conclusions that have nothing to do with life and we're breaking our position. Serbia has a more favourable option of borrowing. Serbia is not a risky country. No one's dropping the ratings on Serbia. On the contrary, Serbia will be rating with some to stagnate, some to grow, but it will certainly grow in the long term. Serbia is no longer in such troubles and there is no such pain. Every day, as much as our position is more favourable in terms of the fiscal deficit, our ability to be in charge is just to borrow cheaper and cheaper and to change the old loans we took, which were the most expensive. It's a thing that I want ordinary people in Serbia to understand, to know how it goes, to know that we're doing it well, to know that, hopefully, in the first half of 2017, that spiral of public debt growth, and it went like a rocket a year and a half ago, as a rocket literally, that we're going to go down slowly but safely down. It will be one of the greatest historic successes of this government, whether someone likes it or not, whether someone likes it or not. That's true, it'll be written in books, unlike those who triggered that spiral of chaos, that spiral of little bankruptcy of the state. It will also be written about those who are ill or hateful, and it will be written about who are those who have managed to turn both the direction of the country and that this ship is directed to a peaceful port and that citizens can feel safe. After all, we have no problem with returning and fulfilling any obligations today and you know, Mr. Zivkovic, we are fulfilling all our obligations as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since there were different texts and stories about how we're running away from our obligation to keep our deficit down, no, we're pushing. Besides me are two people who do the most, Mijailovic and Vujovic. Every day we push to pay as much as possible, because, unfortunately, to tell you the truth, we're not capable of making projects, so we can spend the money we have. Now I'm talking about something that is our big problem and what I've been dealing with for three months and I still can't solve it. I'm not hiding what's wrong with me. It's a much bigger problem than anything else. With great discipline, great responsibility, serious work, patience and patience of our people, we managed to provide these results, but do we still have many things that we can fix? Yeah, we do, and that's what we're gonna do. Once again, as for the party employment story, the data will be presented by some other ministers. I'm happy and I live for it and I tried to show it to the public in Serbia, and I realized that it was a little someone who recognized it. I saw that neither the people in our media recognized it, from RTS to any other. When I opened this new factory in Ruma, I saw that we were doing something big for that city, because it's the third factory in that town or another factory, now the third one, so the fourth one, "Changri" or "Cingrapa", "Hachinson", etc., and there's almost no unemployment. Six thousand on the desk. When this is all over, with this 1,200, it's going to be less than 3,000. That's how many people don't want to work. That we don't lie, so you always have that number of people, one small part of people doesn't want the others who want to work. So we will be almost or at the level of the most developed countries by the number of unemployed in several places in Serbia. Not all of Serbia, unfortunately, countless problems, many people want to work, many people want to work, they don't have a job, but we have to work together, to encourage this entrepreneurial spirit, that people realize that the exit is in, I would say, private property and private business, that the interviews of our businessmen don't always start and end with it -- the state has to help, but to start and end, I know that you think the same thing as I do, but to be -- I don't want the state to interfere, but we can't fix it in one day, and we can't fix it for a year, not for 10, if you want, because our mentality, our culture that we've acquired in socialist self-management. We've broken our working habits since the '90s and so on, then we've had a robbery privatisation since 2000 and so on, so now there's a lot, a lot, a lot more to change and a lot to do. I want to tell you that there's no reason to be unhappy today, and if you let me, I'll read to you, I'll read to you later, you'll give me some time, data from last year, month to month. Our industry blew up. We've never had this kind of information. We've never had this kind of information. Don't laugh at your country, Mr. Sutanovac. I never lie about data. When you see the data, you should look forward to making your country more successful than it has been, not making fun of your country. It's a shame you haven't even heard the data, but that you're already smiling and mocking... (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: I'll give you the information. ) If I may ask you not to yell, to behave a little, although the time for learning decency was in elementary school and a little bit in high school, it has already moved away. In any case, I want to tell the citizens of Serbia that in May, we have growth in industrial production, month by month, 17.7%. Of course that's the result of the flood last May, but that's how we measured it, with the consequences of the flood, both last April and March and February when we recorded minus 1.8. What's even more important, as a piece of information... Petrovich, don't train anyone who pleases God. As you ruled, while you ruled, there is no bank that has not been robbed of us. Don't teach anyone. What is even more important to you, MPs, who want to hear the data, is that we had a gross domestic VAT in June three billion higher than in June last year. They're red blood cells of the economy. What's more important, the processing industry, May to May, 11.1% is growth. We haven't had that kind of growth since 2005 in the processing industry, we haven't had it in a month. Export plus 15%, May to May. It also started with the import of live cattle. We process, export for Russia and for many other countries more than before. The iron mill pushes the most, of course, from an average of 57,000 tonnes last year, and now it has reached an average of 85,000 tonnes. It's gonna get bigger. Point by point, crumb by crumb, as the great Confucius said - if you carry a bucket of land to one place every day, there will be a hill and a mountain. Slowly, but surely, we advance our country and build, and let everyone else laugh and laugh as much as they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31238	I thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Zivkovic, you have two more minutes to comment, and let MP Riza Halimi be prepared. (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Replica. I was mentioned by the Prime Minister. ) Mr. Petrovic, please do not forget that you are in the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31239	You said the word "hypolymer" around the price of electricity, so I'll answer you so that what you've said, as data, is archilecemers, the greatest hypocrisy. So it's all true except for 2003. In 2003, she didn't collect electricity. Check that out. It was an IMF request, but with the cost cut in the EPS, that's not what happened. Check it out well. Imagine if the current had accumulated all of it, I've collected over 250 percent here, and it's still the cheapest in Europe, and it's still five cents. This could only mean one thing, in 2001, when those purchases started, that the electricity price didn't exist, that, like all other prices, those demagogue prices, like three dinar bread, but the electricity was not there then. That comparison, of course, for anyone in that area, is obviously hypocritical. I'm sure it's the fault of those who give bad information, as well as everything else you've said, about all the indices you've made. Obviously, we're not reading the same statistics. Check with the Fiscal Council. Check with economists who should advise you on whether it's true. Finally, you have great success, that great bloom, of course everyone wants it. There's no doubt it's a wish. At the time I was prime minister of debt, the country was 10 billion, but I'm telling you that your statistics have nothing to do with the life that's going on outside and none of Serbia's citizens, except maybe 180 MPs, believe what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31240	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. You have three minutes to ask questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31241	My question was also addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. It concerns the programme of measures adopted by the Albanian delegation, together with the Coordination Body, and that it was adopted in the framework of the programme on 4 June 2013. After that, we had a chance to talk to, I think, July 2nd of that year, Mr. Vukic, as first Deputy Prime Minister, then Prime Minister Dacic. We spoke with the current Prime Minister last year after the election with Ambassador Camberi. Since the government is often said to be a seven-point programme, it is actually seven topics, which envisioned representation in state institutions, economic recovery, official use of language, letters and national symbols, decentralisation in the judiciary and proportionate representation of Albanians in the judiciary, education, culture, media, health and social protection and security and confidence. After the talks mentioned at the highest level, in 2013, Presevo visited, we had a good meeting with the health minister at the time, but aside from establishing priorities, it can now be concluded that none of these priorities were achieved, and above all I would refer to that the issue of hospital maternity care has not been resolved even though the government, with the help of the EU, has invested considerable funds. However, the maternity home is not yet open. Then, since 2013, there has also been an attempt with the State Secretary of Justice to try to prevent further degradation of the area in the area of justice. It started in January 2010, when instead of basic courts we received units, and then, of course, the court was suspended...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31242	Time, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31243	Thank you. Just to finish, and the prosecution in Presevo, so I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister -- is there any thought of finally moving forward with this programme?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31244	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31245	I want to tell you, Mr. Halimi, that at the cabinet session, we had a special theme of southern Serbia and the situation in two municipalities, which is Presevo and Bujanovac, where the majority Albanian population is. We discussed what it is that the state of Serbia can do, what is it that we can do, first of all, to make you feel better, to be proud of your country's Serbia, to respect the laws of the Republic of Serbia, what is it that we can do to convince you of our good intentions? I'm in part with what you've been saying in agreement and we'll take some action as soon as possible. Some tasks were both given to Minister Stefanovic and Minister Verbic and other ministers. I expect to visit together with EU representatives for the next 15 days and Bujanovac and Presevo, and not only for migrants, but for the opening of schools, or schools and hospitals in the territory and two municipalities, to sit down to see what else we can do and what it is we can do together to bring down tensions between the Serbian and Albanian people. Secondly, to answer about hypocrisy or non-licensy for the price of electricity. You know, you can hear a lot of things from different people, but that's what people tell you that people who invited people not to pay for electricity, and then they increase it not by 250 but by 700%, because it's a cumulative increase, then I don't have any comment on it. A hypocrisy would be too easy a word to describe such behavior. As far as the data is concerned, I want to assure you that we are providing very precise data that the IMF has confirmed. The complete fiscal of June 26th has been confirmed by the IMF, every penny is controlled by us, every dinar, every single one of them checks out. As far as economists are concerned, there is no economist today, except for two members of a political party, while the one in that party is limbo to say something bad about the government's programme, since he is a student of Minister Vujovic, so he knows this is the best thing to do. As for the people of the fiscal council, if you've seen them in each part say it's much better than it was. Of course they see that we're not going to reform the administration, of course they're sometimes sharper than they should, but they always have to say what they see, that the situation is much better than it was. If I could hear such words from Professor Gjuric, and from many others, then I have to say that for the first time, if anything else, the economic profession is almost absolutely united in that and what we do and how we do, it's very good and positive for our country. To see about the default, we paid total in money, 23% more VAT refund than in the previous year, 2014 for the same period. That tells you about the increase in production, that tells you a lot of things. Our gross domestic VAT is 5% higher, our total VAT is 3% higher, our 11% higher import VAT, and that's clean data as a tear, and nobody's ever questioned them, either the IMF, or the World Bank, or the IBRD, or the IB, or the Fiscal Council, or anyone else. Nobody. So I'm telling you very, very precise data. There's no lie and there's good data. What's bad data, what I want to talk about, is the fact that we, and it's not just a matter of infrastructure projects, but it's a matter of serious investment in all other spheres, that we don't have the capacity, we don't have enough knowledge, we don't have enough brains, we don't have enough projects to raise our investments. At this point, we have more money than we need and we keep it. We're in less debt, that's good, that's healthy, but it would be even healthier if we could invest it in big capital things. At this point, we don't have that option, because we don't have projects and because we weren't ready for it. That means we haven't prepared for that kind of thing in years. That is our problem, but I believe that in the next period we will succeed and that we will overcome these difficulties and show people in Serbia that Serbia can certainly be one normal, serious and responsible country. I repeat, whoever knows Gerd Miller knows that a man doesn't like to smile, let alone praise someone. See what they say not only about Greece, but what they say about other EU countries, these people. These people say they are impressed by what Serbia has done in the past year. That's what the Minister of Economy of the Federal Republic of Germany says, no, I don't know which countries, but the Federal Republic of Germany. Lively were we to see, to wait, I believe there will be a lot of objections to our political work, to the situation with Pristina, to many other things, but please wait a few more days and see what Chancellor Merkel will say about what Serbia is doing in the economic sphere, is that good, is that bad. Does it seem to me that in Serbia there are ranks, that pensioners are fighting in Serbia to get their pensions, or is it in certain EU countries. Do we have closed ATMs or do all the banks work with us except for those that some have destroyed by giving their tycoons huge loans they knew would never return? What is the tycoon in Serbia today that can get a loan that is known not to return it? Tell me his name. He's gone. I'm happy and proud that the answer is that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31246	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Zivkovic, I must warn you to read Article 216. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that no replicas and references to the violation of this Rules of Procedure are allowed in this session. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31247	Honorable MPs, party employment in this country began decades earlier, but the government appeared for the first time in Serbia's history that has tied its own hands and does not allow for party employment. On December 7th 2013, when a Regulation on the ban on employment in the public sector was adopted, there were 843,405 employees, of course, of the ruling parties. So on December 7, 2013, when the government decided to tie its hands and not even allow temptation to be able to part-time. On June 20, 2015, there are 807,225 people working in the public sector, a reduction of 36,180 people. Then who did we hire? How did we fire these, hire party buddies, and cut the number by 36,000? Absolutely impossible. Just look at the composition of our ministry, and you'll see how many members you've got, how many members of the former regimes you've got now in our ministries, and go to the AP Vojvodina and find me a SNS official, a Socialist Movement or something like that. But well, that's less important now. What is important and what I want to tell you, on 7 December 2013, a private sector, in the real sector as we call it, was employed by 1,124,381 people, and on 20 June 2015, 1,168,267 people were employed. So 43,886 people are more employed in the private sector. That's how you do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31248	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31249	I think it's great that you mentioned the hospital in Presevo, because it's time to really say that everything that's happened to the Ministry of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been done. Everything required of the Presevo leadership was done. Jobs have been approved, 10 nurses and technicians, two doctors and everything is carried out, it's been given to call a competition and start running. For over a month now, since I've been constantly dealing with this issue, I'm getting confidence from Preshev that in 10 days, he'll be working. So I ask, "Why did it not go away?" In 10 days. There was a Mr. Davenport coming. We convinced him what was done and he himself said that everything else was down on them and that it was up to them to start working tomorrow, that the state had made it possible for them to do so. We introduced, when you said you couldn't find the doctors, we introduced them to help out and that night duty was given to doctors from Vranj. And that's what we've organized. Please tell me, is this true?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31250	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. The supplemental word is made by Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31251	Just for a little while. It's not the answer to Mr. Halim's question. Mr. Zivkovic asked a question about "Sumaku". So, as for Sumakuma, only in the shortest time, a pre-criminal procedure has been completed, detention for three suspects has been designated. There is an end to the previous criminal proceedings, these persons remain in custody. The prosecution ends, let's say, that key part of the investigation, and I expect that the charges will be filed very quickly and the main criminal proceedings will continue. They're in custody.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31252	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. Supplemental response, Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31253	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the matter of the People's MP, Mr. Halimi, I am sorry that what was in the contacts between representatives of Albanians from the municipality of Southeastern Serbia and the justice ministry are not listed in the meetings held with me as a resolution minister. That at these meetings we have identified the problems and defined the frameworks in which we will solve these problems. I will remind you that of the four defined items, two were resolved, and two were conditioned by an estimate of the number of inhabitants in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, after which we said there would be an analysis of the need for a possible establishment of a judicial unit in Presevo. As far as the election of jury judges and Albanian nationality is concerned, we are done. As for the election of the missing judge in the Presevo Criminal Court, that we have also finished the election and that the rest of what we have then seen as problems that remain to be held a competition for the selection of an authorised judicial interpreter for the Albanian language for the Higher Court area in Vranje. As far as equal representation is concerned, that's what you mentioned, that's when we cited the problem and that's the fifth thing, that's when we cited the problem of controlled employment or the ban on public sector employment. I said that I would be busy providing as many seats as possible for the Bujanovac Court and at this point we have on the Government Commission which approves the employment of the request and the Court of Fundamental Court in Bujanovac for additional employment of judicial assistants. I am convinced that we will also realize this, as we did those first two items, and after assessing the number of residents and lists, we will also enter into the realization of what we agreed at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31254	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. Here you go, Mr. Riza Halimi, you have three more minutes to ask questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, I hope that you will make your announcement and promise, that you will finally visit Presevo and Bujanovac, and that this will open a new phase, because so far such visits, at that level, as far as I can remember, were not there. At least in the multiparty system. As far as law enforcement is concerned, absolutely, we're all in favor of respect of the law. Maybe for our area it's a matter of boycotts of individual choices, but as far as I know and practice tells us, I've been here in parliament for eight years, I've been an opposition all along. Minority MP in opposition. We don't even have adequate access to the Coordination Body. It is my impression that those who boycott, by the authorities, certain structures of government are privileged. The messages so far have not been correct by the central government. Then, with these specific questions, I think the maternity home, finally after two years, which is all prepared, but can't be provided overnight. If specializations are not provided in the previous period, one competition cannot be secured. And a year and a half ago, it was thought that over the Vranj health center staff to solve this problem, and here it is, not yet solved. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I think it is, we met with Minister Selakovic, talked, last year about these issues. However, the latest intern at the Presevo-Bujanovac court posts was admitted five years ago. Over five years in this disastrous state of representation of Albanians in the judiciary, and five years, no trainees have been able to receive. Last time we agreed that the competition had to be announced for two judges, as well as for trainees, of course and translators, because, really, except in basic courts, in higher courts, there is no translator for Albanian language. About the count, I think this is really out of line. Those seven areas that we have run for and the government has accepted, most large ones do not depend on whether they know exactly how many Albanians there are in the area.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31256	Time, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31257	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31258	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31259	Mr. Halimi, I told you I'll be with you in 15 days. Shaip, I heard you're paying for electricity. I respect that very much. Well, that's okay, you know, if I criticized him because he doesn't pay for electricity, it's okay to say hello when he pays for electricity, just like all our citizens should do. I think it is very important, Mr. Halimi, that we reach agreements and that we understand each other well about the way we respect the law, and I agree that you are right that we sometimes make mistakes, because we do not treat those who respect this country and those who do not. And that's how we're going to keep that in mind in the next period. I'll come, I'll talk to everyone, but we'll take some moves that I'm sure we'll be satisfied with both the Serbian and Albanian communities, but whatever we do to open the Faculty in Bujanovac and the Presevo hospitals and everything else we talk about today will mean that we provide people with conditions for staying and survival on their hearths, not to be the environments with the largest number of people going abroad. Our goal is to solve the situation in the south of Serbia in the long term, by both Serbs and Albanians being satisfied, not fearing each other, not fearing each other, but living as they wish, both with each other or with each other, but having full freedom in their own functioning and being able to live, in accordance with the laws of Serbia, incomparably, better than they have lived. And as for the textbooks and the setting or appointment to different functions, it was never ours, I'd say, motive to manage the national structure. On the contrary, we've tried our best, but I'm willing to accept every remark that is correct and justified and that things where we can correct and change and improve. As for this second part, about health institutions in Presevo and Bujanovac, Zlatibor Lončar will say something else, and I just want to ask you to make more efforts to improve this life and create greater trust between Serbs and Albanians. As important as this is for Serbs, make sure it is equally important for Albanians. I'm sure it'll mean both for each other and for the relaxation of relationships, and if you want a better life for both of us in the future. Camberi, congratulations again on paying for your electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31260	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word for an additional answer is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31261	I would once again like to tell you in front of everyone that I am responsible for saying that all the conditions have been met to start doing maternity work. I'd ask you to use your influence. Here, we can make a deal in front of everyone, get the maternity office started on Monday. Use your extra influence. All conditions were met, which was up to the state, which was up to the ministry, to proceed with the work. There are no additional problems. These were people from the EU and everyone who invested money agreed when they saw the situation both in the field and the situation in bureaucracy, which was a part of the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31262	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. Mr. Halimi, you have two more minutes to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31263	I think about this last one, Mr. Lonchar, that everything was ready, and in July last year everything was ready, in the sense that the authorities and the inspections gave all the consent. But what you just said, can't be a maternity ward without a specialist, can't just be with nurses. If that can is not prepared earlier, it cannot be solved by a single health home in Preshevo. The ministry's obligation to solve this problem through the Vranj Health Centre remains, otherwise this situation will remain for another year and perhaps more. I hope, what the Prime Minister has announced, that it will work more seriously to prevent the eviction of young people who have no prospects for employment, who do not have a perspective for normal life in this area. If the unemployment rate is over 70%, then it's quite clear why these people are going. In this respect, it must be far more serious than so far that all resources are being used there. Some final answer has never been asked why there is no cross-border co-operation with Macedonia and the use of projects and IPA funds? Last year, the municipality of Surdulic achieved projects worth almost eightm euros. The same are Presevo and Bujanovac of the Border Community, and how many years do we not have the opportunity, here, one such resource to take advantage of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31264	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. The word has a People's Messenger, Mr. Nenad Canak. Here you go, Mr. Canak, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31265	Thank you. From what I understand, anyone who pays for electricity here is being touched, so now it should be an ovation for the Vojvodjans to happen, because they pay for the electricity and don't even ask whether the electricity should be paid. You don't have to touch the one who pays, you cut the electricity off the one who doesn't pay. I don't understand what this is all about, but good. Seeing as there's no one here from the Department of Agriculture, I have no one to ask the question I wanted to ask. As far as land is concerned and renting land to foreigners before domestics, selling land, it takes a special session of the Assembly, and then I wouldn't even talk about it. I wanted to ask the Minister of Agriculture about the African Throats, which was brought in on June 25th, which, for no reason whatsoever, over 400 hunting tourists who are due to arrive in August will not be able to come because they have no reason to come. It's a transitive game, a savage who just flies... (Alexander Wolfie, from the place: What is it? African Throat? It's a hug from Africa, an African turtle that flies across our country, because it doesn't nest here, we don't feed it, we don't feed it, we don't feed it what we're doing, and then the Italians come and leave the money. That's the essence of the story, and that's what's supposed to happen. For reasons unknown to me, however, a hunt for an African throat has been declared, and I think it's a complete matter to be seen as a failure of the administration. I wouldn't keep you any longer. I just have one more question for the finance minister. When an agreed meeting with LSV MPs will take place, where we will clarify the debt of the Republic of Serbia to the AP Vojvodina, i.e. Her administration, based on non-payments 7% into the budget this time AP Vojvodina? So that's the question I want to hear the answer to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31266	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31267	Of course, Mr. Canak has, in his own way, somewhat theatrical, as he knows it, in the best political sense, expressed his views. The Republic of Serbia, of course, owes no single dinar to Vojvodina, nor to any other part of its territory, and these are facts. When are we going to talk about the Funding Act and everything else? As soon as possible. So, when I say as soon as possible, in July of the month. I don't know what an African turtle is, I'm sorry. But if you're right that we're threatening our economic progress, and we're not jeopardizing the survival of any kind, there's no doubt that the government is going to change that decision. So, I don't want to make a final conclusion without the Minister of Agriculture, but, I say, if you're right, don't have any doubt that we're going to change that decision. As for paying or not, and whether someone paid more or not, you'd be surprised, Mr. Canak, if you saw that mostly richer people don't pay for electricity, not poorer. As mostly richer people always make a lot more remarks and complain more than middle class and poorer people. If you could see how much they owe us, you would understand, and there are in Vojvodina, there are in Belgrade, there are them everywhere, in central Serbia, and they are not properly distributed, there are fewer in Vojvodina, and more in central Serbia or Belgrade, on the contrary, very properly distributed everywhere, then you would see that it has nothing to do with geographical origin or anything other than haughtiness. We understand that there are two to three percent, what our calculations are, the poorest people who can't afford it and who are looking for ways to avoid it, but we can't understand that, not in numbers, but in monetary terms, 70% of those in money that don't pay us are richer people than you, than me and most people in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's something we're facing and we're going to be facing for a while. Now it's happening, now it's been ordered to shut down electricity after three months of non-payment. The power plant gave the warrant. Of course, where did we get our first complaints? We got just from a part of the private companies that held the most powerful tycoons and we got from part of the company in restructuring, which they think is business still is if someone else pays the electricity, if someone else pays the gas, and they can pay the salary when they get some grant from the state. As for renting land or certain protests, people, we try and receive people every day. Let's fight it so there's no strikes, there's no protests. Now I'm going to tell you what we're dealing with. And, I'd like you to do it once, Mr. Canak, because I know someone else will never, you know, say, "Well, don't go out and meet someone." For example, we talked to taxi drivers. I've been negotiating personally with IMF representatives and my cabinet for two months. We're fighting to give them a tax debt reprogramme from 2005 to 2013, to give them two new years, 24 months of reprogramme, that they should pay it in six years. So, in those remaining four years. It's hard for the IMF to agree to that, so for days we've convinced ourselves about it, and in the end today, I have to admit, most of these people are responsible, honest and good hosts, one small number of people say – give us a write-off of these debts. Then you hear how everyone's supporting it somewhere. So how do we do that? Then why would anyone pay our taxes for anything? How is that possible? Well, that's impossible to do. There is no force by which you can do it without destroying the state and destroying it. After that, they'll all be looking for it. So you can have that kind of tax amnesty in case of major natural disasters, major natural disasters or war. How can we do that? Unfortunately, we used to do different choices and things like that. You mentioned renting land, I'm not running away from it at all. Don't let anyone talk to us about the Arabs, because it's not the Arabs who said they didn't farm the land. Go see how they handled it. Now go see. It's about the Germans, somebody's getting in the way of the Germans. Someone's got a problem with "Teniz". Well, wait, it's a state country, I guess the state is going to do what it wants with that country. I guess the state wants at the best price to betray her to someone, to make the most money. I guess it's the state's obligation, I guess we should go to jail if we don't. Of course we need to see and we need to sit down with everything, and we're sitting with our farmers every day. You know, some politicians came by order. We've introduced all possible levies. I've been fighting in Brussels for the fourth time since we've been over our levies because they won't let us keep them. We've extended them to the end of the year. It will be a great observation from Brussels about which we will be tortured until the end of December of this year. You know what's come now? We've introduced cheese levies, we've introduced butter levies, we've introduced milk levies, we've introduced fresh milk. Now they say – but you are guilty, you did not introduce the levies to the milk powder. So let's destroy the even more conditorial industry that's jumping the most for us right now. To destroy the conditioning industry and leave people out of work in the condatory industry. It's as if someone wants something bad from us, not to torture ourselves and fight to meet people, suffering the most difficult political pressures from different sides. I'm just asking you to keep that in mind. They don't do that over there, some bad guys who want bad for their people. I don't know what an African turtle is. If you're right, we solve the problem. But I know these other problems well. You're looking for a very correct way to get rid of it, you're going to get even more than you asked for "Electrovodine" about what we talked about, not you, but because it's important that the Republic of Serbia, at your request, can go political points to you. We want, as far as possible, to leave the functional Republic of Serbia. These proceeds have always gone to the Republic's register, they will always go to the Republic's register. For those who thought it was going, I don't know where because Serbia is our one and only country and we'll never break it up into any other parts or I don't know what, but just as Belgrade is Serbia, so is Serbia and Saturday, so is Serbia and Nis. That's how we behave. Just please, don't, Mr. Canak, so someone should have come together or at the same time that Mrs. Merkel is here to sign certain contracts. We're not doing this right now because of the bad atmosphere that's being created around something. Just please don't get anyone out of this country yet, just because we think we can get a certain political point somewhere. This is worth a lot more than political points. Our cattle production, our processing industry will jump in more than 50% in a year, for everything we haven't been able to do in the last 30 years, in a year if we do. Is it possible we can't see it, people? Is it possible to pretend we don't see it? I know you know this, and I know that I'm right, as I'm sure you're right about some African throat because it was some bureaucratic signature, because someone sent a memo there saying it was a endangered species. I don't care what an African turtle is. I can't explain it to you. When you told me - 400 people won't come and get the money to stay in the government register, so I live to get them to keep it in the government register. Now we have to protect the African throat. I don't care about the African turtledove. But as much as I care about making it bigger, I don't care if we increase our income, increase our livestock fund. In 2013 and in early 2014, our cattle fund, now suddenly began, Nenade, to increase and increase, abruptly. He was at a level of 1,000, people, our cattle stock was at a level of 1910. We've brought it down in the past 15 years to the level of 1910. Our measures that we tried to get people to import pigs, to load pigs, to process meat and to export to Russia and didn't produce fruit for five months everywhere, the sixth month exploded. Suddenly, both Juhor and Neoplanta, Matijević and all our other companies take much more than ever and start processing as much as possible and at a higher level of export processing abroad. It's on its way, you can tell. They're huge amounts, they're dramatically increased amounts of pigs. He has re-worked exports to the Russian Federation because the laundry has stabilized. Let's just not stop it, and we don't always have the principle -- there's some villains working against us, so we'll do it. You didn't say that, I'm saying it for the whole society, because that's how they're treated. The information we should have given you, I will ask Mr Stefanovic to, not just for your sake, but for all the Novosadians and people in Vojvodina, give additional information on how much we have increased strength and how much power we will increase, and the ones you see and the ones you do not see. So, in Novi Sad, especially in the investigation and in the fight against drug crimes, therefore, the organized drug market, because it brought us incredible scenes that people in Novi Sad were not used to in the previous period. Thank you again. I'm just asking you to keep in mind that you're talking to people who don't want to be bad, on the contrary, but to people who want to do everything they can for their country. If you think someone else has an interest, because I listen to such nonsense every day, I apologize for telling you, I didn't hear them from you, why give the land "Teniza", that to the Germans, which to this – because we are going to benefit the most from it, because the state is going to benefit the most and because, ultimately, the citizens of this country are going to benefit the most. That's why we're doing it. Tell us, here, since some are rebelling, Putin brought in "Teniza". He didn't mind "Teniz", only to us Serbs, it bothers him. We're the only ones who have a problem with that. No problem, let's stand up like some other country, let's say -- stay away from all of us, we're the smartest in the world, don't let anyone come, and the end of the story. They just want to copy the model they made in other countries. Thank you again. The dukes, like the Belgrades, as well as the Shumadins, like all other citizens of our country, are equally responsible for the law, are doing the same for the budget as all other citizens of Serbia. I applauded Mr. Camberi personally because I know he never used to pay for electricity. Well, when someone voluntarily starts paying for electricity, I think it's a good sign and a sign of decency, of courtoasia, to applaud on such a change of mood. Once again, Shaip, thank you for paying for the electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31268	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31269	Dear People's MPs, relating to security and security in the territory of the Novi Sad Police Administration, I would like to say that since 28 February of this year, we have launched a major operational action that carries out enhanced control, legitimacy, a review of security-interesting facilities, faces and vehicles. During this campaign 1,750 persons, 810 passenger vehicles and 60 catering facilities have been controlled so far. Two people were found in this period, wanted internationally, 35 persons on central arrest warrants, 15 persons on local search, two hand grenades, automatic rifles, six guns, more ammunition, different types of intoxicating drugs were seized, a laboratory discovered for the production of a cane in artificial conditions, a larger amount of cold weapons. So, two organised criminal groups and 26 smaller criminal groups have been identified with a number of crimes. The number of muggings in Novi Sad has been reduced by 36%, the degree of detection of criminal offences, i.e. the lighting of crime, has risen to 80%, but of course there is still room to significantly increase citizens' safety, and sometimes this sense of subjective security is not responding to statistical analyses that show up. So these are data that are easily verifiable. Compare the number of crimes committed, the number of people found for it, those against whom criminal charges have been filed, those who have been handed over to the prosecution. Significant progress has been made to curb drug trafficking. A lot more intoxicating drugs have been seized and in the area of South Baba County in the period from 1 May 2014 to 1 May 2015, 406.964 kilograms of various intoxicating drugs or more than 176 kilograms more than in the previous period, let me say from 2013 to 2014. As far as economic crime is concerned, 337 crimes have been detected, i.e. 53 acts were more enlightened than compared to the same reporting period in the previous period, which shows greater police effectiveness in this regard. So there was no serious breach of public order and peace. One of the most serious crimes of the murder of Nenad Opačić and his wife. It was enlightened in co-operation with the Czech and Spanish criminal police. A person we suspect to be the perpetrator of this crime has been found who died of an overdose in the Czech Republic. There are fingerprints that we identified, as well as DNA analysis found on this person's clothes in the Republic of Serbia. After comparing and exchanging data with partner services in the Czech Republic and Spain, through which this went for some operational reasons and this crime was in this regard enlightened.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31270	I thank Dr. Stefanovic. The word has a People's MP, Nenad Canak, another three minutes to ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31271	Thanks for the answers, with that, I just wanted a few clarifications. I haven't talked about the state of Serbia being able to owe itself, but the state of Serbia can violate its own constitution and it's been doing so for nine years when it comes to Vojvodina and that's what the idea of meeting with the finance minister was about. So that's what this is about. It is not about some kind of debt from Serbia as one union of Vojvodina, as other communities. Secondly, you are absolutely right that the state country is state-owned and state-owned with it can and should do what is best in the interests of citizens, only it would be convenient to not forget that part of the state had old owners to whom no restitution has been made and it would be convenient to do so before the state continues to work for the benefit of all citizens as I do not doubt but also works. On the other hand, you mention good results and I would ask you to keep in mind that the paors were paid less than one-fifth of the subsidies and that it would be very important to pay the debts to these people and cover them. What did you say about paying for electricity when someone wasn't paying for it, and now he's paying for it and that he needs to be welcomed. I would say that it is written in the old books, that the greater joy of a sinner who repented than of 99 righteous men, the greater my joy is that I have the opportunity to speak with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31272	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31273	Mr. Canak, can you imagine my joy in answering your questions? But I'm going to try to answer the last question, Snow White hasn't come yet because she's talking to farmers about this particular topic. We had this point today at the government, and we have information that we have paid absolutely everything. I got other information, and that's why we put the minister together with the strike board people to see if and what's true, so that's exactly what's going on, so we're going to see it and we're going to check it out. We're all we could do, everything we had absolutely paid. So, you know, anything that would say what's in the currency or everything that's come to us as a state we've paid. Everything we have, is that right to Vujovic? We did the rebalancing last year, which is the main reason why we could pay people to pay for the whole of 2014 and all the backlogs. As far as restitution is concerned, it's a big problem as you know about our country and it's one of the laws, and I wish we'd brought it with a different content and we'd been a little more careful about it. I'm afraid we used to bring it back a long time ago, too, because we wanted to pick someone up and get votes. Anyway, we have these laws, we have to respect them. Something we can return to the country, we'll return to the country. What we can't pay back, we'll pay back in money, but for you to know it's such a big obligation for the Republic of Serbia that we're correcting the injustices of 70 years old, that it's not just and just towards this generation. Anyway, we'll keep doing that. As far as this is concerned, it's like when you tell our people -- no problem, let's pay for it, take it for 20 years, that country. I can, but let the state lend me a loan. Well, I can but I can pay for it every year, and if I pay 10 or 12,000 dinars per hectare to give me 11,000 dinar subsidies. The state earns nothing on that, as you know. The state will earn where it can and where it can look to meet its farmers, but the state can't or shouldn't be, it used to be, and that's why we've brought our whole economy, our whole country into this situation, the state isn't a milk cow that can get everything out of it, and when you don't like it, you take a camel and you hit on the back of a cow and whether it gets around or gets around, whether it's hot or not, you hit it out of pure peace. It's something that I wanted not only to ask you, but also everyone else, that when something happens somewhere and someone points out their request somewhere that people first hear what's in that request, then they react to it, so we see if it's possible or not possible and why someone would work against their own interests. Why would someone do something that's against his interest? We now have countless things that we are not satisfied with. We don't have machines for oncology, we have a waiting list. Now, before the end of the year, we'll make sure there's no waiting lists. Are we going to do everything we can to make everyone too happy with all possible procedures, and I know that citizens will be satisfied and that the waiting list in December will no longer be. Because if we stall, it'll take us three or four years to end this problem. We've got all these problems. I didn't get Mr. Stefanovic or you or I answer, but I hope that after our intervention, the joint will be an additional increase in the number of members of the MUP. Everything else is good and everything else is fine, which was only done to make it an additional number of members of the MUP. I am now informed that a new police station has been opened in the new settlement, which is very important for both Veternik and Futoga and Begec. This applauds what I know about geography and the parts of the New Sad, which is not exactly commendable. In any case, I believe that you will be pleased, Mr. Canak, with these results, as all other citizens of Vojvodina will be pleased. Then, who criticises some criticism, but it's important that people feel safer and safer than they do today. Thank you again and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31274	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Mr. Canak, you have two minutes to comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31275	I only have one more thing to say, and that's, if it's true that all these subsidies were paid to the paori, I apologize to you, then I don't have good information. And we're waiting to see. If not, then I will join the parishioners in protesting this government. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Go ahead and we will pay you faster. I'll hurry up and get there. Secondly, I think this violation of the Constitution is a very serious matter, and I think this issue would already be resolved once, as well as the question of financing the Vojvodina are key things that must be addressed as soon as possible. I suggest that it be in the next month and put an end to these doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31276	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31277	Thank you, Chairman. My question has a symbolic connection to Mr. Chank's question. It is about Serbia, though it is about Africa, both Asia and transit, but unfortunately it is about very difficult human fates, the political and economic situation of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the topic I want to deal with is asylum seekers and I will ask Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic for the following reasons. First of all, we have seen the reactions of our citizens in places where asylum camps were or are present and that is a perfectly normal reaction of people who first encounter one mass inflow of asylum seekers, people of other habits, other cultures, another climate. There were also media that published sensational news about asylum seekers bringing infectious diseases, even Ebola, since it was like the alleged fear of terrorism, even the media that published photos of asylum seekers. This way I appeal to all media not to do so, because from the country of origin, in the country of origin of the family of these people who are mostly currently fleeing the areas affected by the war, primarily from Syria, Libya, Afghanistan, then from some other unstable political and economic countries, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Congo, Algeria, Morocco, etc. It's simply a very difficult fate for people. These people are already visible in Belgrade. Here we see them, unfortunately, around the railway station, at the Faculty of Economics, around parks, parks at the Lastin station, we see them on the highways every day. Unfortunately, there seems to be a trade in human beings, a certain kind of abuse. In a political sense, we are interested in this because of Chapter 24 and I have no prejudice on asylum seekers, absolutely, I think, as far as I know for now, the state of Serbia has largely responded, primarily to its human and then to its political obligations. What would interest me, Mr. Stefanovic, if you only have the information to tell us what an inflow of asylum seekers this year in Serbia, how much in economic terms it costs our country, what the state has done in terms of taking care of asylum seekers and all the other measures it needs to take, how many of them are people who have sought permanent residence in Serbia, do these people really commit mass crimes, as is preconvincing in our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31278	Time, Mr. Chiquiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31279	And I would just like, as far as Mr. Vukic is concerned, to say that his view of raising a wall by the Government of the Republic of Hungary, announced towards Serbia and his relationship that he will do everything politically not to do it, but that we will continue to co-operate with Hungary, on other projects, we fully support it politically.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31280	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. The word has a minister, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31281	A complex question, very current and a matter that certainly interests a large number of citizens. What I want to tell you at first is that in the first six months, the first half of the year, the intention of seeking asylum in the Republic of Serbia has expressed 35,712 people, primarily from Syria and Afghanistan, the largest part, some of them from Somalia, Eritrea, Iraq and other countries, but Syria and Afghanistan are absolutely dominant. What I can say is that 20,725 people have also been prevented in an attempt to cross the state border and against 9,279 of these persons, a misdemeanour has been initiated. Of course, I have no illusion that we have managed to capture any of them who has crossed the green border illegally. This is one of the key problems that the government also discussed with the Hungarian government and other representatives, and today in Belgrade, a delegation led by the German police director, the Austrian police director, the Hungarian police director, who discussed concrete measures that our police can take to prevent illegal migration. So what I am proud of as a citizen of this country, not as a minister, is the UNHCR report on the behaviour of our people, citizens of Serbia towards asylum seekers. As a police minister, I can tell you that we have a minimal number of incidents that happen to asylum seekers, and what UNHCR representative told me, Mr. Shoder made me really happy as a man, because I was satisfied, because he told me that our people invite these people to their homes, give them food, water, offer them the opportunity to take a shower, offer them human conditions, offer them one hand of friendship. These people, most of them came from countries that are affected by the war and these countries really do not provide some minimum human conditions, but there are also those who come for economic reasons and that is the issue Europe has to deal with, it is not a question that Serbia itself can solve, because we are only a country of transit. There is a question of whether we can accept anyone who appears at our borders and because of this we have succeeded one great thing and I think it is a powerful thing that the Republic of Serbia and its government have done. We managed to focus the story not on the Serbian-Hungarian border, but on the Serbian-Macedonian border. Today, joint patrols with the Hungarian police, Austrian and German, which will come, and already four thermal vehicles are located on the border with Macedonia and two of us, will come from Austrian border guards and 20 German border guards and symbolically, we defend Serbia as part of Europe. We show that Europe has come to Serbia's borders, to show that it sees Serbia together as a partner country, as a country that participates in solving this problem. I think it is a very important indicator that Europe is counting on us as a country that can help combat illegal migration. It's about huge waves of people. Today, there are between a million and two million people on the Turkish-Syria border, and more than two million people already in refugee status in Turkey and a vast number of people are moving across Bulgaria, and most of them across Greece and Macedonia, through our country, transiting towards Hungary, and a slightly smaller part towards Croatia and a smaller part through Bulgaria, Romania, through Hungary, the largest part transit to Germany and Sweden, France, some other Nordic states. So, a very complex question, as far as the answer is concerned, I can't give you a precise answer, nor do I think anyone has the current calculation of how much it costs us, and certainly it's a huge effort, given how many people with refugee status are already in our country, because, of course, in the 1990s, the Republic of Serbia received, as you know, a large number of citizens living in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and who are in refugee status in our territory. Some are, of course, fully integrated, some have other citizenship, and some still use accommodations, collective accommodations, and some services, some of the help the state provides. We still have a lot of pressure from these people. Of course, we don't see that in the next few months, and I don't even know if we can be optimistic and say, in the next few years, this wave of migrants that's coming is going to shrink. All the numbers we have indicate that a huge number of people will arrive. We have also formed a Republic Migration Headquarters dealing with this particular issue, led by Minister Vulin. Minister Loncar is also overseeing this situation, since you asked a question. So today at our Emergency Staff, I spoke to the people of Batut Institute, and they assure me that there is currently no epidemiological crisis of any kind. So, the epidemiological situation is completely under control and only taking due diligence measures in those people who are in direct contact and who are processing this data, and above all it's about police officers in Presevo, to say to other centres, where it's about accepting these faces and sending them to the asylum center. We are fully aware that the largest number of people, as well as in Hungary, I have talked to my colleague Pinter and I end this, the largest number of these people, who express their intention to seek asylum, never wait for the end of the procedure. They want to move on. Our job is to focus them only on regular border crossings and that is something we are doing with Europe, and of course Europe has to answer the question of what to do with people who have the right to asylum, because they come from wartime countries, which have the right to freedom of movement, and they come in huge numbers, which no country can just receive, because it requires huge efforts in economic terms. So, the Republic of Serbia is very committed, very actively working with all the ministries that, I say, are competent and I think we should really commend these people on the ground who have achieved that we citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not feel the greatest of this pressure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31282	Thank you. The word has been made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31283	Thank you. Mr. Chiquiriz, I checked in in the meantime for those African turtles and masts, but Mr. Canak isn't here, so when he gets back, I'll tell him if he comes back. So, as for raising walls and migrants, maybe all of us are living in some strange time where every day when you think it's more challenging than we expected, or more challenges than we've been prepared, something new happens to us. What I have been able to hear from our Hungarian colleagues and from President Jan Shader and Prime Minister Orban, is that they see it not as a migration movement, but as a great migration of the people. They expect more than two million people to seek refuge in Western European countries in the coming year and to cross the territory of the Republic of Serbia from those two million, at least one million and 900 thousand. Then you can think of the challenge we're facing because so far we've gone all together with some 60,000 that have passed our territory. We prepare for it, we take on a number of activities. We are not happy about raising the wall, but because of this we will not destroy and spoil our relations with Hungary, not because we are weak and small, but because Hungary needs as a friend, because if I may say so, it has more trust in Serbia than in some other countries in its environment and Serbia has more confidence in Hungary than in some... (Employees are getting out of place. I guess I'm not smart enough to understand that kind of humor, but I accept that. So what we heard about gas, Hungary has helped us, insists that the pipeline, that the pipeline passes through Serbia because it wants not only to get from the east, since 2019 it is possible that it will not win, but that it will get from the south, much sooner than Serbia would get from Croatia or Romania. Should we be breaking our relationship with a neighbor like that? Were we allowed to say what we thought about the wall? We said and our Hungarian friends knew that. Are we going to tear down our relationship, and I know that you don't want it, Mirko, and I know that's why you supported it, to tear down relationships with people that would make it unfortunate for 300,000 people in our country or more than 300,000 people in our country who are Hungarian nationalities, who are not particularly happy about the wall, but understand the need of the Hungarian state to protect their national territory. They understand the need and understand everything Serbia has to do and are satisfied with our calm and smart reaction. After all, I wanted to tell you that I was particularly proud when we heard at a joint session of the two governments the President of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians who spoke Serbian as a member of the Serbian delegation and Ljubomir Alexov, a spokesman for the Hungarian government, a Serb who spoke in Hungarian, as a member of the Hungarian delegation. I don't think we've ever had, no matter the wall and no matter what, because the wall doesn't rise because of Serbia and our relations, but because of what they have fear of, from the arrival of migrants. We think there are other ways to fight it, not build walls, but in any case, our relations with Hungary won't collapse and we won't spoil it. I appreciate that you understand that, and I think that yesterday after yesterday's cabinet session, I don't know if anyone from the Duke Hungarian Union is going to speak today, but I think that a very large number of people in Vojvodina have fallen from their hearts, I honestly think that I may be wrong, because they have seen that Serbia and Hungary have managed to agree to continue to go through good neighbourly relations, by increasing trade, by attracting Hungarian investment in Serbia. Prime Minister Orban has offered to send Serbia's most serious and responsible companies to Hungary and that we will have a wide open space for investment in both Budapest and other parts of Hungary. So, I think these are good things for our country. If we're going to be able to provide, make such a political discourse, we're going to be able to make sure, that's another thing, but as you can see for what I was talking about, about livestock production, it took us six months to get people ready, to prepare and then to move on. If you allow me, I will read to you later on, so when you see if we continue to do so, I tell you with all the fiscal consolidation measures, with such huge savings, while being one of six EU countries that can have below 2.5% of the fiscal deficit at the level of the general state, of course I cannot guarantee for all municipalities, but at the level of the Republic of Serbia, I am now telling you that it is possible and almost certainly I am telling you that we will have positive growth this year. I'll remind you, the IMF said -- it's going to be minus one; they said -- it's going to be minus 0.5; now they changed it in April, so they said, it's going to be zero. I'm telling you now will be a positive growth in 2015. I think that, since this is how it is measured across Europe, I think dear friends that at this point in Europe the most successful fiscal consolidation measures, which is recognised by the whole of Europe, the whole of the EU, I believe that this is what the European Commission chief, Mr Junker, will say to the ninth, where I will be the first time on an official visit, to the head of the European Government, I think we will have, along with this, that we will have a positive growth with fiscal consolidation measures. That means we have huge potential in the future. This means that in 2016 we are definitely going to two plus, to grow, just to stop it, to leave the same extent as the fiscal deficit, which means that in 2017, at their estimate of 2% today, we are going to over 3% of the growth. Then Serbia is a healthy and normal country, then I don't think anyone will ever think of acting so irresponsiblely again, the way some of us have acted almost bankruptly. I'm sorry I said so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31284	Thank you. The word is for an additional answer, Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31285	Dearly, it is clear that the asylum problem has not caused Serbia, it is clear that it cannot be solved by the Republic of Serbia, but that it behaves as an organised state, it acts. No one in our territory has been denied asylum, but we have not left our borders. We're not like some states allowed to cross our border as anyone wants past the border crossing, our border units, our gendarmes doing their job. Every night we get a report of how many hundreds of people have been returned in an attempt to cross illegally, but every person who comes to the official administrative crossing, asks for asylum, automatically gets the right, gets asylum seekers' status. So let's not confuse human rights with anarchy. Crossing the border beyond the border crossings anywhere in the world, especially in Serbia is not allowed. We protect our borders and defend our borders, but we have received indeed the most commendation from all representatives of the international community for our relationship with asylum seekers. In Presevo, we formed a reception center very quickly, so that people more civilized can, faster if they can get the proper documents, every asylum seeker gets medically taken care of. You know, when we talk about contagion, there's not every tourist who crosses our border examined but every asylum officer who crosses our border and comes looking for asylum, gets medically checked and taken care of. Every child is taken care of. We've already had several birth cases. We've had cases of hospitalization, but no contagion, they're mostly injuries. All of them are provided with food and water and medical care. I also spoke with representatives of local self-government in the north of Vojvodina, I was in Kanjiza, where there is concern. It's a town of 9,000 people, and every day there's almost 1,000 new people, 1,000 people who aren't from there. We agreed to provide certain resources to make hygiene better, so that they could clean up after them, so that they could provide everything they needed. So the state of Serbia behaves as an organised, good state. Next week we have a partnership conference with our partners from the international community, where under the auspices of UNHC, Minister Stefanovic and other ministers who are in charge of this portfolio, we will be organized a gathering where we will ask our friends what is needed to be even more effective and very respected what we are doing. We're getting ready for winter. It's summer summer, but this problem won't stop, and when winter comes, there'll be people looking for asylum and there'll probably be more. We have to take care of it, we have to take care of it, we have to make sure nothing happens here. So we're acting like an organized state. Another very important thing, we're not helping anyone cross the border. We fight against human trafficking. So, we're not going to, unfortunately, have such phenomena, allow someone to cross the border, make that someone else's problem. We defend our borders both from the outside and from the inside, and there is a special story that we will discuss with our partners in Brussels, we hope, which is not Serbia's first border that these people cross and is not Hungary's first border of the EU that these people cross.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31286	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31287	So, as mentioned, MP Chikiriz also mentioned Chapter 24 and Action Plan, of course this is a question that is a whole EU issue. So, at no time, in Brussels or with our partners from the EU, no one has ignored it. But that's why by mentioning the 24 Action Plan, we've shown and that's one additional motivation to open chapter 24, because actually opening chapters is monitoring the implementation of what we've predicted. In the Action Plan, in Chapter 24, we envisioned, above all, an increase in the capacity to house refugees, a more efficient decision-making procedure under asylum requirements, of course, adequate healthcare and, of course, a high level of overall protection of human rights, although we are, to be quite open, therefore, who, in any case, has shown, even from many EU members, a higher degree and application of European standards, that I am not talking about empathy, because we do not forget that these migrants are the same people or similar to those who helped our citizens during the floods both in Obrenovac and in Šapac and Sremska Mitrovica. That should also be emphasized by our public, therefore, that such a human treatment should continue. We thus show that we are also a responsible partner of the EU, but above all, we are responsible for ourselves. In that sense, from IPA, I have to mention it as a national coordinator, we signed these financial agreements for 2014, yesterday, because they're being signed a year ago, just like that, we've provided 2.3m euros from the IPA, 2014 for another asylum centre, and we don't forget for those of the readmission programme we have about sixm euros to improve their position. That's not enough. We discussed yesterday with the Hungarian partners that incomparably larger EU funds have been focused and given to the Mediterranean region, although it is shown that the number of migrants through this land area and entering through the Bulgarian border, Greece, through Macedonia, is also almost identical, if not greater, and that we will try to distract the EU, our partner, too, that this is also a very big transit area and that in that sense the funds that will be available to us must be greater, so that we too can treat the problem in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31288	Thank you. Mrs. Joskimovic. He has an additional answer for Minister Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31289	I just want, as far as the health situation is concerned, to say that at first there were doctors without borders and there was a Red Cross, who cared about the health condition of these people. At one point, however, there was a regrouping. Some of them had to retreat. I want to assure you that the teams are currently working downstairs, the medical staff of the Serbian Army and the medical team from Presevo's home, that it's covered from seven o'clock to 10:00 p.m., constantly working teams and taking care of these people. Most of the time, it's about exhaustion, the injuries sustained during long hikes, and the events that happen on that road. Right now, the situation is absolutely under control. Extremely large resources are being spent down on these people. There's about 35,000 of them down there right now, according to today's report. Most of them, when they arrive, but usually walk through Macedonia, seek medical help, as well as those who do not seek, because of the peace and the population living downstairs and who are afraid of any infection, our medical teams are also reviewing those who do not ask for help, to have the situation under control. We will do everything we can to keep this health situation at that level and do everything we can to contribute to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31290	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. You have three more minutes to ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31291	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and the ministers for their very comprehensive answers. I think the answers we have received will greatly calm our public. I would just like to ask Mr. Stefanovic, regarding our prejudice that there is a link between asylum seekers and terrorism or that asylum seekers participate in committing crimes, I can only tell you the information that I have come to as president of the Children's Monitoring Task Force whose life and work takes place on the street, well, one of the categories that we follow within this task force, in collaboration with the NGO, are children on the move, asylum children. The data that we have received is exactly in line with what you have brought out, that indeed, except that some corn, potatoes, etc., asylum seekers are quite peaceful indeed. They're troubled by some other concern. They want to get to Western Europe. They're very peaceful. There is no need for our citizens to have that kind of prejudice, even a lot of citizens, and what I think Minister Stefanovic said on their own is receiving asylum seekers into their own house, etc. There are some situations to meet asylum seekers who are very exhausted, who walk thousands of miles, who are tired, frozen, wet, sick, etc. What Mr. Prime Minister was talking about Serbian-Hungarian relations and understanding of our policy, is somehow an opportunity to say something that may not be spoken in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and what the city of Belgrade or the state of Serbia should think about. In 1941, when Hungary attacked Serbia as part of the fascist coalition, the Hungarian prime minister, in protest of non-compliance with the agreement, committed suicide because he had a signed agreement with the Kingdom of Serbia on non-attacks. One such gesture deserves, I think, at least with this late applause in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in terms of good Hungarian-Serbian relations, and I think that such a man deserves at least one street in the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31292	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31293	I support your appeal and it is indeed asylum seekers who want to go through our country peacefully. They usually move around in large groups precisely out of fear for their own safety, because they don't know how they're expected in which country someone's expecting them. Of course, in the Republic of Serbia, the security situation is very favourable. There's not a lot of work about asylum seekers at all. Unfortunately, the largest number of works attached to them are where those victims are, or where they are involved in human trafficking. It's something we're working on intensively with all the police in the region, especially the Hungarian police. We've been working to contain all the smuggling groups and over 40 major groups in the last year we've managed to contain a larger number of faces. We've seized a large number of vehicles. Of course, these people don't carry big money with them, but the money they carry with them is usually taken by smugglers who offer them different stories. We even had a case of a car with Romanian plates and Italian drivers being presented as our vehicle. In the end, it turns out there's nothing to do with us. However, this is primarily our intensity, that in the most peaceful, most effective way we can ensure human rights for every migrant and asylumist. Of course, this does not mean that we should not protect our state border and we, all those who have the right to ask for asylum, but also, we are trying to warn them that first contact with the state border of the Republic of Serbia cannot be a violation or a criminal act of illegal crossing. So there's a large number of border crossings. With Macedonia, we have almost 94km, 93.9km, a state border that is not easy on all parts of it, and therefore I am grateful, once again, for the great support of our partners who, by transferring their forces to the Serbian-Macedonian border, show that this wave wants to stop there and that the Republic of Serbia is a partner country that is part of the solution to this problem. So it's a very big support. I agree that what you said, everyone should treat these people perfectly normal, they should not fear them and they want to go through the Republic of Serbia in the most peaceful way possible. It's their idea, which is why no one should cause any incident. As for terrorism, of course, we must not be naive to the idea that there can never be terrorist threats on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It would be irresponsible to think so, but so far it's not expressed to a large extent by asylum seekers. However, we with partner services in Europe are also identifying these persons through a serious database. All those persons who come to us and fill out asylum forms, who claim the right, which is ultimately our basis for a later reading, if those persons illegally cross the state border or do not have the right to seek asylum or for any reason not to be granted. We thus participate in a wider security system of Europe and try to identify all people. Many of them don't have any ID at all. They come to our border and they say – sorry, we came from Syria, without any document or identity certificate. It is something that the Serbian police are working intensively with our partner services and I think we have made the greatest progress on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31294	Thank you, Dr. Stefanovic. The word has Minister Alexander Vulin, an additional answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31295	You mentioned children, that's a particularly important question. That is why in Presevo, in the transit center, special social workers are provided for the care of children who travel without parents, of course, and certainly for children who travel with parents. We have provided special reception centers, or special accommodation facilities for mothers with children. Our army doctors doing great work in Presevo always check mothers with children and our police first issue documents to mothers with children. So they're not waiting in line either. We have provided adequate reception and accommodation facilities for children without escorts in Subotica, Nis, Belgrade, and we even have special centres only for female children travelling without escorts. In the north, too, our social work centres work specifically with children and no one can cross the border in a legal way without our social work centre being there to control things with children.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31296	Thank you, Mr. Vulin. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Balint Pastor, three minutes to question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31297	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I will have a question for the Prime Minister. A joint session of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Hungary was held yesterday. This was the second joint session, and the first one was a year ago in Belgrade. A total of four interstate agreements have been signed. I think the most important document, signed yesterday in Budapest, is a statement on the intentions of a comprehensive development of infrastructure ties. I don't think it's just my opinion, and it's not just an SVM opinion, and I'm saying it on the grounds that this document was the only one of these four that was signed by two prime ministers. All the other documents are from the resolution ministers. For us, it is of paramount importance that this statement is signed and the question would refer to exactly what projects are in the area of infrastructure connections, in the area of traffic? I mean road traffic both in railways and in river traffic. Do you share our thinking, Mr. Prime Minister, that this is not just traffic, that these projects can start a business, not only in the north of Vojvodina, but in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia? I'll tell you right now and I'll help you out a little bit. I know you know this well, but I want to point out that one of the most important projects is the development of railway infrastructure between Subotica, Segedin and Baja. I think it's one of the most important and unique results of our co-operation here in the Republic government, because a year ago, few people in Belgrade knew about the project, and in a few months, everyone saw in the government of the Republic of Serbia that it was a very important project and joint forces looking for funding to realise the project. We think that the project can bring about economic recovery in the territory of the northern Vojvodina, in that area of the Republic of Serbia and that something similar can happen, as happened in the western region of the Republic of Hungary a few years ago, before they joined the EU. So the question is, do you share our thoughts and what do Serbian citizens have since yesterday's signed statements?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31298	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31299	I thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Pastor. It's true, the two of us signed it in hope, I'm sure Istvan is here, I assume he passed it on to you. I insisted on... (Balint Pastor, from the place: I didn't have time. )......................................................................................................... You didn't have time, then I'll tell you. At the government session itself and in the long aunt-to-be conversation, for an hour and 20 minutes, it seems to me, I insisted on the development of infrastructure projects, I even said, regardless of the different values in the physibilities of studies, so in feasibility studies, which were repeated by the Serbian, Hungarian and Chinese sides. We on July 16th, if I'm not mistaken, we have a joint meeting of working groups of all three countries, to try to bring them closer, to match the price of a kilometer of tracks. I am talking about the Belgrade-Budapest railway, which is of great importance to Serbia. I will try to explain why for Serbia and Hungary, Prime Minister Orban agreed, it is of great importance. It is not just a question of whether we can go to Budapest for coffee and whether more Hungarians will come to Belgrade, visit Serbia, as it was before. That's beyond a doubt. What we get is that both Hungary and we take up space in Central and Eastern Europe, which no one can take anymore. Thanks to the lack of desire among others in our region, and I realized in front of that first summit at Angela Merkel, on August 28th last year, that some wanted to avoid Serbia. I didn't say a word to them. We fought for our projects, and we had five of our projects to go with, and I saw that some were deliberately kicking us out. Two days before that summit, Mrs Merkel made their meetings with the sole goal of removing Serbia from all joint projects, and we made them with everyone together and offered everyone that we had certain joint projects. I kept my mouth shut, but I understood the message. After that, we had a 16 plus one summit. I'll remind you, 16 prime ministers. The Chinese prime minister here in Belgrade and before that we started talking, and then we agreed with the Belgrade-Budapest railway. We agreed that when the work starts, we try to provide all the conditions of the physibilities of the study, from the idea project, and then when you're done with it, you go to the main project and bury the first Ash in the course of this year and that these works don't last for more than two years. In our territory it's a bit easier, regardless of the same length, 188 and 179 kilometers, almost the same length, but we have a slightly easier situation because of the use of Russian credit for the Stara Pazova-Novi Sad stock, etc. Why is this more important to us? Some wanted Belgrade out of the way. Some wanted to put Serbia away. To them. It's their policy and their business. It is our job not to allow it and to position Serbia, our country as the most important country in Southeast Europe, that you cannot bypass Serbia. As we have lost part of the passengers through Arada and building a new bridge on the Danube between Romania and Bulgaria, if we do not quickly finish Corridor 10, we will have even greater problems. Luckily, we're doing it fast. So this is how important it is for us to start rail traffic and it will be from Vienna-Prag, Vienna-Budapest fully directed towards Belgrade, Greece and Turkey. So both arms, therefore, the southern leg and the eastern leg, would in that case go across Serbia. It's vital to us. So whether the price is 100 million, higher or lower. Serbia will enter the project with great enthusiasm. Serbia will also find part of its money, part of Chinese credit funds, to see that we explain it for 20 or 30 years, because it will bring about, as you said, not only the development of the infrastructure, it will contribute to raising our production, it will contribute incomparably to better and faster and freight traffic, it will contribute to our tourist offer, it will contribute to the development of our entire territorial sector, it will bring Serbia closer to Central Europe. And if we succeed it will mean that in a few years we can travel from Belgrade to Vienna in four hours. Well, I'm sorry and you don't travel less, you fly an airplane for an hour and five minutes, but how long do you need to get to the airport, how long do you need from the airport to the city center? Here in downtown Belgrade, you enter the centre of Vienna. I think it's a big deal for our country and, although it seems to me that perhaps with a little less enthusiasm it accepts the Hungarian side, I saw that they want it too and they understand it and they're going to push it. The Chinese side, too, was now Vice President Jank, vice president of the Chinese government here, after President Li, so like Chang and now we've talked about it. So we have the complete assurance of the Chinese side that they are defined and that they will speed it up. As for the Subotica-Segedin-Baja railway, it is very important for the Hungarians in Serbia, very important for the Hungarians in southern Hungary, very important for our economic integration just like "Ipsylon Krak". We understand that in the best possible way. This will attract more Hungarian investors to both the Northern Bačka County and the Northern Banatski, and the Western Bačka District. This, of course, will mean an additional recovery of the Serbian economy and we as two prime ministers will continue to insist. It's about, of course, opening a water crossing on the Tisa River. We'll try to make Tisa water in her flow through our country in general. We will also open three new crossings, so 2016, 2017, I think, in 2018. First, this Reske-Horgosh, which we have closed down on your old road, is primarily because of the inhabitants of both settlements so that they can get out easier, that they don't have to go on the highway and pass in such a way as they have so far, and two more crossings. I think that's good, that's what it says about improving our relationship. And if I told you that I saw that Hungary has more trust in Serbia than in some of its other neighbours, I think that something decent is talking about us. On the other hand, I want to say globally about the policy that we've changed, we used to boast about how we're going to respond strongly and strongly, and today it's not a problem if someone hits Serbia to respond to it, but the problem is to lead, apriors, a negative policy. Today we are trying to attract everyone in the environment and that everyone is coming back to Serbia again, that everyone is coming back to Belgrade. I know I have a problem explaining this to some people, but when we made the greatest successes in football and Partizan in 1966 and Star 1991, it wasn't just Serbs. This is where people from all over the territory of the former Yugoslavia played. We were the Pythons and the most important city and the most important place, all of us coming to see us, none of us were running away. In this regard, our relations with Hungary are very important, such as good relations with Albania. With Macedonia, we have the best relations today, no country has that kind of popularity today, as Serbia has in Macedonia, precisely because of its policy not to interfere with their internal affairs, respect for the people's will. We have excellent relations with Bulgaria and Romania, we will promote them even more. I believe that with Bosniaks we will succeed in making long-term better relations and then creating an opportunity for us, it is all a prerequisite for dear Balint, to have such data and for Serbia to grow economically. What Orban said, I want the citizens of Serbia to hear it, as some may have heard it, at the government's session Viktor said when he saw me in December in Belgrade and when he heard that we were starting with fiscal consolidation measures, he then told me he was sorry and told me – I don't know the next time we see you as prime minister, I don't know how you're going to do it. He was so fair that yesterday at the joint session of the government said – the last time I saw him officially, we saw ourselves informally and after that, when I officially saw Alexander, I was sure he wouldn't last another month or two, since I don't know how I could handle it in Hungary, he succeeded, the deficit was down. What people think is a different thing, but we have managed to change the big thing, not just the picture of Serbia, but to change the state of our state wallet, our public finances. I am also grateful to the Hungarian government for knowing and such things to respect and to congratulate. We need a stable Hungary, such as Hungary needs a stable Serbia, and we will invest everything we can to maintain stable, solid and good relations with our northern neighbour to the joy of all Hungarians, but also to the joy of all Serbs, to the joy of all Bosniaks, to the joy of all Croats and all other citizens of Serbia. I'm sure we'll have your help in the future. Once again, I am grateful to you as a political party for helping us and for stabilising these relations and we have also invested effort and energy, I would also say political courage in these relations, but I think we can now slowly begin to read the fruits of a much smarter policy than the policy we had before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31300	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word has been made by Parliamentarian Balint Pastor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31301	I thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I think it is important that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia also hear that these days also talk to the Hungarian Government about joint infrastructure projects, to open new border crossings, as you said the new Horgos 2 border crossing will open in a month and two more border crossings will open at Serbia and Hungary's border in the next two years. In addition, it develops common forces and road infrastructures and railway and waterways. I'd have one additional question, since you mentioned "Ipillon Krak", he's been building next to Subotica since the mid-80s, if I'm not mistaken. (Alexander Vukic: Since 1982. ) Since 1982, all residents and the city of Subotica, this region expects this project to be completed as soon as possible, and my question would most specifically refer to that – when the citizens living in Subotica, but not just the citizens of Subotica, but everyone driving the truck via Subotica, all those living in the center of Subotica, can expect that project to be completed for at least two reasons? First because of the removal of the freight traffic from the centre of Subotica, on the other hand, due to the development of a free zone in Subotica, which is very important for the economy of the Northern Baška District of the AP Vojvodina, and I believe the Republic of Serbia. We would like to believe that if there will be financial resources that this project can be completed within two years. Many times the work of previous years has been restarted on the project mainly in pre-election campaigns. The last time in 2011, but believe me, the citizens of the city of Subotica expect that this project to be done next time, when the works are launched and completed, and that the next election campaign is not waiting again to work there rather than for the citizens of the city of Subotica to finally experience the completion of the project and that the huge helmets do not drive in the center of Subotica, for example on Zagreb Street. The next time you come to Subotica ask any citizen, the resident of Subotica where the Zagreb Street is and who drives pass there in the center of the town of Subotica. It's simply not normal and we expect this government to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31302	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31303	We've been doing a little consulting here while you've been talking, because I know everybody's been promising, some have been opening up papers, so nothing. So, the value is about 27-28m euros, if I'm not mistaken, because that's how I talked to the same projectors and those who planned to do it. It's about Saturday construction companies. So when we visited them there, we didn't have that money allocated, but that's three billion dinars, something a little stronger than three billion dinars, but we have that money. So we don't need to rebalance the budget. This will be the first year after I don't know how many years there's no need for rebalancing. So, you know, every year we've had, one, two, three rebalancings. Every year since last year. This year 2015 could be the first year without any rebalancing. We don't have any problems in budgeting, and we'd have to go to rebalancing if we were to single out three billion, or redeploy them. So we're going to work and Zorana has to say now, because it's not planned for this year. We'll put it into the 2016 plan because we have the money, but that all plans and projects, everything we need to finish before that and start with the beginning of the construction season. So, March 1st to start with the work. I promise you, it won't stop at all, because we're in a position to pay for everything. If you're asking us if we're able to pay in advance, we're getting up in advance to pay. We've got money. To answer for agriculture. We totaled 32.5 billion so far have spent on subsidies. I speak for all sectors, on subsidies spent on agriculture 12,381,150,118 dinars. Most of it's gone to agriculture. We still have space, we still have a more significant part of the money we didn't spend than who we are. I don't think we spent 62% of the money, even though it's been six months. We only have the money, to tell you the truth, we don't give the money until someone proves they deserve that money. They can be as angry with me as they want. We could never have been able to have a deficit at 1.5 – 1.6% of GDP if there was no discipline and there was no one who would say – I don't give money. Now, we don't give money because these money belongs to the citizens of Serbia, and these money is not for archiving, but it's money to provide work and to provide a better future. That's why we have money to build roads, so we have money to build railroads. As you can see, we don't have enough projects yet. If this, Balint, we can finish, then we won't have any problems. Just give me a little time, because, like when I started, like Orban didn't believe me, he thought it wasn't going to happen, so he didn't believe we were gonna make it, so he honestly admitted it, unlike many others, he showed how great a leader he was. See how the macroeconomic movements go in May. I didn't believe it, I asked ten times to check with the Republic Statistics Bureau. I've looked ten times. They've checked ten times to see. I'm not talking about the fiscal right now. I'm talking about the pimp. Total industrial production has seen strong growth compared to May 2014. I said exactly 17.7% a month a month. The growth of total industrial production in May was dramatically accelerated compared to the previous month 6.2% thanks to the revitalisation, primarily the mining-energy complex and the acceleration of the processing industry, which records a growth of as much as 2.7%. The growth of the processing industry in the first five months of 5.1%, what is very good for us, is dispersive and is based on the recovery of a larger number of export-oriented branches. The strong growth of the processing industry at the beginning of the year was driven by the growth of production capital rather than permanent products for broad consumption. These first ones are 10.8% and these second ones are 6.4%. The growth of machine and equipment production has doubled, and a strong impulse for the processing industry has also produced pharmaceutical products 16.6%, tobacco 89.5% and food industry products, which is very important, 4.3%. The growth in the production of basic metals has been accelerated 18.5%, while the production of metal products of rubber, plastic and paper and petroleum products has contributed to the growth of the processing industry to a lesser extent. Also, for the first time in a long time and after many years, the chemical industry has moved into an area of growth. The recovery of production, electricity production continues 48.8% growth in May. The growth of coal exploitation, of course, has had the most impact on the recovery of production within the mining sector, which, one year after the flood, is 23.9%. A slight recovery of unemployment has been recorded in the labour market, and I think we still need to work on that. The unemployment rate is slightly lower than the same quarter from 20.8% to 19.2%. What? (Goran Bogdanovic, from the place: I didn't tell you anything.) I'm sorry. Foreign trade trade was also significantly improved in May. The annual export growth of 15.6% was mostly determined by the growth of iron and steel and tobacco exports. That's what we've been doing and like I told you, they're slowly starting to see results. We have three large companies to hire between two and two and a half thousand workers each. It's about 7,000 people. One will definitely go to Novi Sad, one should go to Šabac, and one we look at in the King's or the Kruševac. So, I simply think that this is something that will contribute and I am grateful to the individual MPs who have also engaged in bringing investors about people who do not belong to my political party, but also to people who have understood enough how important this is for our country. As you can see, of all things, of all things, I'd say, mockery, of everything we've heard in the past, things are slowly being set up and coming into place. We still have a lot of loose ends, and there's a lot more to go on and on, but it's going slowly on its own. To repeat my assessment which is most important, with the fact that I guarantee you that our fiscal deficit will be less than 3%, not less than 3.5%, and it will be significantly lower than that, and I guarantee you that it will be less than 3% in 2015 and that it will be sustainable and not unsustainable, and in 2016, I can now, except that we don't have some big disaster natural, some big tragedy that happened to us last year, I can guarantee you something that will certainly get into textbooks not ours, but worldly, that during the first year of fiscal consolidation, we are recording a positive growth in our economy. I am also prepared to guarantee it to you, and we will see how much the IMF estimates will be at the end of July and August of the month, and I think it says that Serbia will be able to provide in the years to come, if not for my generation, for those who come after us certainly better conditions and better life than it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31304	The word is Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31305	Dear President, on behalf of the New Serbia Parliament Club, I have a question for Minister of Sports and Youth Vanju Udovic. Our athletes, especially in the last month almost daily lower fantastic successes. I have a privilege, or I may have thought to name some of them. The football team has won the world title almost epically for up to 20 years. The women's basketball team has become Europe's champion. In the national league, women's children train us, Mr. Minister, without enough money to feed them. Our athletes at the First European Games held in Baku won 15 medals, out of which eight gold and thus brought a top 12 place to the Serbian team. So it wouldn't have turned out that I forgot our water polo players who spoiled us and almost got used to it as a golden medal as a good day, as Novak wins these master tournaments, I was obliged, as a great sports fan and a man deeply grateful to these athletes for making us proud, to express the love and respect I have for them, and my question is the other side of the medals. In addition to the concerns and attention given to top athletes, I would like to ask you, as a resolute minister, how many countries are taking care of young people who are just entering the sports system, and what is it that we can do as a state to expand the base and create future champions? What can we do and what is the state planning to do to improve school sport, because that's the base where all our heroes and these athletes have achieved these results, these records and these gold medals? Our children, unfortunately, are getting fatter thanks to modern lifestyles, and I must add that I have often witnessed, unfortunately, watching their school classes, that unfortunately, I must say, a good number of them don't even know how to run. I know you've paid attention to that. We all know that the Americans have calculated that one gold medal of opportunity costs a million dollars to create an Olympic champion. We all know we don't have that money, but I think we have enough to make that school sport bigger, to invest in these young people, especially because of their health, and already the profession and natural talent will determine future champions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank you, sir, for recognising the success of our athletes, because I know how much this means to them, and I know that they will be looking forward to this finding, that here we are talking about the great results that our athletes have achieved. It is no secret that the aforementioned visit to Hungary also discussed major successes, especially the women's basketball team, since the championship was in Hungary. I was very pleased when Minister Dacic and I asked how we got such a result in football in Milan, when Italians, who are considered football geniuses, admired our results from young football players. It's for the respect. When we talk about the essentials, about those generations that they need to inherit, I think it's a much broader topic. I'll try to explain to you as soon as possible what we're doing. We can't expect more results without a base. The state, I must say, is paying off all its obligations to athletes for the first time. Well, for the first time, it's not due to any athletes, when it comes to awards, when it comes to national recognitions, when it comes to scholarships. Camps are being held within the agreed deadlines and I think it's a message to every athlete that and how the state takes care of them. What's more important is that, despite the difficult financial situation, this year, we have identified the means to expand the sport infrastructure. We know that without that sports infrastructure, we can't expect children in the sport itself and that it's necessary where children can deal with sports and recreation. And, despite this difficult situation, I must proudly say that we are going to build an athletic stadium in Novi Pazar, and we are expecting the end of the Belgrade athletic hall. We expect the opening and athletic stadium in Kruševec and we have opened the stadium in Vrsac, launched an action with the Football Alliance on the construction of 22 terrains with artificial grass. Also, we have opened countless open terrains and three paths, because we believe that sport is not a privilege and that it should be absolutely accessible to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If we're talking about younger generations, I think even in the draft of the law on sports, where I sincerely hope that in September we'll be here in front of you and talk about this topic, we turn to the kids of the sport itself. I've been to all the public debates myself, and I've heard in the field that the main problem is membership. We want to cut membership fees. The tendency is to abolish membership fees in the next period. Even those topics that are not often mentioned, which are a lot of sports, we turn directly to young people now, are sports managers. We want to limit the managers and bring sport into the white zone. We want to protect our children when we talk about transfers, about our children going abroad, about giving them all the attention they deserve, not about our children leaving because they're better quality and that we increase the success of some clubs and teams in other countries, but that our clubs do it. We want these athletes to pay all their contributions and taxes in our country, to increase our country's GDP. I think all of these things that I'm saying taxingly, because I think we can talk about this subject a lot wider, are crucial to our athletes. You mentioned a school sport. In direct communication with Minister Verbic, we find some resistance we want to remove. When we talk about school sports, it's directly under the Ministry of Education. What the Youth and Sports Ministry can do is organize, as organized by a number of projects, where we will include all of our youngest citizens. Like the “Sport to Schools” Project, where we have on one hand provided the possibility of additional lessons in physical culture, on the other hand giving the opportunity to hire professors of physical culture, those on the work desk. So we have an example of a Smederov, where we no longer have a single professor of physical culture at the Bureau. I think the Alliance for School Sports showed in the previous year that 250,000 children went through the competition system, because what we can do is only competitions and competitions. We can't deal with the fundamental question of a larger number of classes and the quality of those classes. I think we can boast that more children have gone through the entire system. We have an action "This summer" where school competitions are held throughout Serbia in a number of sports. Those who win will go to Croatia, as did last year, to make new friendships and at one regional level compete and show, as well as seniors, that we are successful in the area. What's very important is that we're not the government taking pictures with the best. We are a government that tries to make it possible for all citizens, especially athletes and the youngest, to be able to engage in sport at will, that it is not an absolute privilege and that no one has to pay for that sport. I want to thank you once again on behalf of all the athletes, because you have recognized the importance and I think I have answered you. As for the school sport and the system change in school sports, I think Minister Verbic should respond to that, and I would not like to speak for him. We can also deliver to them in writing everything we have started and what we expect to have in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31307	Dear Mr. Markicevic, I don't understand how anyone runs, how anyone swims, but all I know is that we've given the task to Minister Udovic and the Olympic Committee to bring at least eight medals from the Olympic Games, and that they're asking us for all the necessary conditions for the state to meet to bring these medals. That's how you do it in serious countries. Sometimes that result will be fulfilled, sometimes it won't, sometimes these goals will be met, sometimes it won't, but in any case it's our duty to provide all the conditions for the Olympics that they can bring such results, because we think it's important for Serbia's promotion, because it's important for our people and because they have shown extraordinary vitality so far and, I would say, more combativity than in some other segments of society that we could show. On the other hand, I want to tell you that we have made a decision to restore most of the schools in the next year and a half in Serbia, to do so with hospitals, clinical centres, and later on with health homes, because fiscal space allows us to do so. I'd also like to say the difference between this government and what makes you hear these words from earlier. I don't know if you know, at a time, let's say, some other government, the Democratic Party, the most important place in the state was your boss. I'll tell you why. And do you know who the chief of the vault is today? None of the ministers know. None of you know in this room, and I'll tell you why he doesn't know. Well, there's no need to know. You know why they knew then? Because there was never any money in the vault. Well, just the one, so now I'll tell you why. Well, here are the living people next to me, so they know who worked at the time. There's no money in the vault but then only those ministers who have political power, their payment orders pass, and those other ministers can't charge anything for two months. Because there's no money in the vault. Well, who's good with the boss of the vault can get the money. If the Minister of Education isn't good with the Treasury, let's go over there, because you wanted to rebuild the school you can't rebuild for the next few years. Now we have all our orders. Every warrant as it arrives goes to pay the same second because the money has and it doesn't matter who's head of the Treasury, it's important to do the job domestically, it's important to do it professionally and professionally and nothing more. Everything goes to sports, culture, everywhere, pensioners. We don't owe any money anywhere. It's small payouts, living people hard but we pay off everything and we have room to increase it. We're about to start negotiations with the IMF. Vujovic is going to Washington, it's going to be his first very difficult conversation, and then the rest of us are going to talk, but we have a very wide space and I think they're going to have to understand the needs of our people. That's what we can do today. To those who asked for these sessions at all costs to break up the government, I just want to say that we want to come as often as possible to the National Assembly not to beat someone but to be able to state what is real, what is real data. Why did I say this? Some come out of this room and tell people that this is a farce, that we don't get to their questions to answer. Well, no SNS MP has been able to ask a question. No MP or SPS has been able to ask a question, and we have answered what you have asked. According to your Rules of Procedure, you brought this Rules of Procedure that you did not respect, and we respect it. I propose that by the end of the year, the largest party in parliament, at least to propose changes and allow for more time, more time to allow us to ask questions, that they can all ask questions, that all people see that they have no arguments, and with what arguments we are facing Serbian citizens, because this is very important. We're not afraid of criticism, we want criticism, but the possibility of answering and nothing more. To finish, I hope that soon we will have, that we Serbs and other citizens of Serbia and all together will be able not to be someone more or less valuable, to agree to celebrate sometime. I said that when this thing with Jelizar starts, first we'll have a little celebration to do when the second high furnace of Jelizari is on fire, and the second big one we'll do if, with this low fiscal deficit this year, we'll be able to ensure positive economic growth and we'll call on it, and together we'll say, we'll enjoy this celebration with our opposition colleagues, members and former regimes, because I'm sure they love Serbia just as much as we do, and they know that these are good and positive results for our country. I thank you all peoples for having the patience to wait for us these seven days to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will always watch that we appear and with the greatest satisfaction of answering all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-02-0.u31308	Thank you. We are finishing work in the session on parliamentary issues and I thank the MPs for their participation. We'll continue our session Monday at 10:00 p.m.
