ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23579	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Suzanne Spasojevic, Nenad Milosavljevic and Sinisa Maksimovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Mirjana Ivić, election member of the High Council of the Judges, Majda Kršikap, as secretary of the High Council of the Judiciary and Vesna Janjic, an independent adviser at the High Council of the judiciary. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint single search on the motion for a decision on the selection of judges who were first elected on 14 November 2014, on the proposal for a decision on the choice of judges first elected on 11 December 2014 and on the proposal for a decision on the election of judges first elected on 26 December 2014. Does the proposal's representative want the word? The word is Mirjana Ivić, election member of the High Council of the Judiciary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23580	Thank you, Chairman. I'm asking for some silence and concentration on what I'm going to talk about. I know you've all got the material, and I'd just like to briefly remind you of what we're going to discuss today. On the basis of Article 47. The law on judges regarding the decision on the number of judges, the High Council of Justice, published an ad in "The Official Messenger", and she and "Politici", in the middle of last year for 12 vacant judges in Belgrade's First Basic Court. On July 22nd, the High Council educated a commission tasked with carrying out checks on applications submitted, to determine their completeness and well-being and to hold talks with all the candidates reported. Opinions have also been drawn up for candidates on expertise, skills and dignity, so that the candidates who come from the courts have received opinions and the court from which they originate and directly the higher court, for candidates outside the bodies and organisations in which they work, and for lawyers of the opinion of the legal chambers in which they are registered. The Commission held talks with all the candidates reported, taking into account the opinions they obtained for them, it found and proposed to the High Council of the Court of Justice of 12 candidates, and the High Council at the meeting held on 30 November 2014 proposed to the National Assembly of the next 12 candidates for the first basic court's election in Belgrade. The first on the list is Avramovic Zorica, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. She was born in 1980 in Belgrade. The Faculty of Law graduated in Belgrade in 2003, with an average score of 9.16. She passed the judicial exam in 2006 and was an intern at the District Court and then at the First Municipal Court. From 2006 to 2009 at the District Court in Criminal Department, and as a judicial assistant in the Special Department for Organized Crime of the Belgrade District Court, from 2010 to the Court of Appeal. The assessment of her work for the number of years she studied in 2011, 2012 and 2013 of the judges she worked with is particularly important. She was a participant in scientific gatherings. She did seminars - loss of life and illegal treatment, alternative sanctions and not to list them all. You have the material in front of you, so you can follow me closely. The next is Barovic Velibor, a judicial assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade. He was born in 1975 in Belgrade. The Faculty of Law graduated in Belgrade in 2000, with an average score of eight. The legal exam was passed in 2002. From 2003 to 2009, he was an assistant at the Third Municipal Court with the appointment of a senior adviser to the judge. Then since 2013, in the first basic, then in the second, and since 2014, he has established a working relationship in the First Basic Court, an independent associate with the calling of an independent consultant in the Parnic department and the labour estimates for these three years have been – particularly pointed out. Barovic Velibor would make it the fourth-ranking candidate in his court to come from, so judges find that he meets the conditions for the first court judge's election. Next is Brajkovic Aco. He's a user of initial training at the Justice Academy. He was born in 1982 in Ariel. In Belgrade, he graduated from college in 2005 with an average score of 8.84. In 2008, he passed a judicial exam and ended a postgraduate academic master study with an average score of 9.50. Since 2005 he's been a lawyer intern. In 2008, he was an intern at the Criminal Court in Belgrade, and then after a court trial and a judicial assistant at the Belgrade Criminal Court. Since 2011, he has worked as a judicial assistant at the First Basic Court in Belgrade. In 2011, he enrolled the Judicial Academy and ended on 3 October 2014. He is a participant in many seminars, conferences, round tables and training, such as organized by the Judicial Academy roundtable on the subject: “Improving the fight against high-tech crime”, and then many seminars on Zlatibor. In Banja, he worked training at the Institute for Intellectual Property, Stamps and Copyright, round table on the subject: "Prisonment in Domestic Law and Practice and Relations with European Standards", as well as many other trainings. He finished improving the skills of writing court judgments and others. The next candidate is Zivanovic Jacovic Jelena. She's a judge's assistant at the primary court in Obrenovac. She was born in 1978. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2003, with an average score of 9.19. She passed the judicial exam and later established a working relationship at the Obrenovac Municipal Court in Obrenovac at the workplace as a judicial assistant. Since 2010, it has been deployed to the Second Basic Court in Belgrade, and in 2014 to the primary court in Obrenovac. The estimates for her work for these three years, 2011, 2012 and 2013, were – particularly highlighted. According to a session of all judges in Obrenovac, the High Court and the Court of Appeals, it meets all the conditions for selecting a judge for the First Court. The next candidate is Ilcic Dragana, a judicial assistant at the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. She was born in 1975 in Belgrade. She graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1998 in less than four years, with an average score of 8.83. The traineeship ended in the 2001 District Court. In 2002, she was a judicial assistant at the District Court until 2009. Then, she was a judicial assistant in the Fourth Court, calling a senior associate. From 2010 to 2013 in First Basic as an independent adviser, and from 2014 at the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. The assessment of her work with the judges she worked with is particularly high. According to a session of all judges, Ilcic Dragana meets all the conditions for electing a judge for the First Basic Court. Dragana was also a part of several seminars and has certificates in the field of child rights and the crimes of young people, as well as a certificate: "International aspects of fighting organised crime". She published several professional papers, but now I'm not going to talk about it because you have it all in the material. The next candidate is Lecic Vanja, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. In 1977 she was born, and the Faculty of Law graduated in 2000. The average score is 8.87. During the traineeship, she was an intern of the Belgrade District Court, and was then deployed to the Third Municipal Court. She passed a judicial exam in 2003 and has since been a judicial assistant at the District Court in Belgrade, and then in the Court of Appeal. He works in the civil department. The evaluation of her work in all three years was particularly high. In the opinion of the session of all judges, her and the High Court, she meets all the conditions for choice. By the way, Lecic Vanja is a participant in a human rights school seminar for lawyers in Southeast European transition countries, organised by the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights. The next candidate is Parezanovic Daniela, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. It was born in 1980, and the Faculty of Law ended in 2003, after four years, with an average score of 9.61. The traineeship in the Fifth Court has been carried out. The judicial exam was passed in 2006. She was employed after being appointed as a judicial assistant at the Fifth Municipal Court, then at the District Court in Belgrade, and since 2010, she has been a judicial assistant with the call of senior adviser at the Civil Court of Appeal in Belgrade. The rating for her work is particularly high in all three years. And she is one of those who according to the opinion of the session of all the judges and the High Court meets the conditions for selecting a judge for the First Court. He is a participant in many seminars and works in the construction of judicial sentences carried out in the Belgrade Court of Appeal's newsletter. Peric Smiljanic Daniela is the next judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. She was born in 1979 in Uzic. The Faculty of Law graduated in Belgrade in 2002, with an average score of 8.83. The judicial exam was passed in 2005. She started out as a volunteer at the First Municipal Court, and in 2005 as a judicial intern for a certain time in the Fifth Court. Since 2010, it has been deployed to the First Basic Court, and since 2013, it has been a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, where it has been engaged in the study of legal issues related to the work of judges. All three evaluations of the period under examination are particularly highlighted, and according to the opinion of the session of all the judges of its and the Supreme Court, it meets the full conditions for selecting a judge for the First Basic Court. The next is Petrovic Stojan, a judicial assistant to the Belgrade Court of Appeal. He was born in 1977 in Alexandrovac. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 2002. The average rating is 7.06. He passed a judicial exam in 2006. As an intern, he was in the Third Court, and then he was a judge's assistant. After 2010, he was deployed to the Court of Appeal in Belgrade in the Criminal Department, calling a senior judicial associate. Also, in 2010, he was assigned to the Special Department of War Crimes and Criminal Crimes, and since January 2011, in the Special Department of Organized Crime and the Department of Judicial Practice. The rating for his three-year work is particularly high. He is a participant in many scientific gatherings, organised crime, state and protection measures organised by the Police Academy, then the Legal Forum, the Justice Centre, is a participant of the School of Natural Rights in the organization of the Justice Centre. He completed training and professional training under both the OSCE and the Belgrade Centre for Human Rights. He took part in the consultation of judges at Zlatibor in 2012 with the theme "Admission as a measure of ensuring the presence of the accused", which was subsequently announced in the bulletin of the Supreme Cassation Court. It meets all the conditions for selecting a judge in the opinion of the session of all the judges of the Court of Appeal. The next candidate is Ramic Goran, a beneficiary of initial training at the Judicial Academy. He was born in 1983 in Belgrade. Law school graduated in 2006, with an average score of 8.42. In 2008, he completed a post-graduate master's study of European communal law. From 2006 to 2010, he was the first volunteer and then a judicial intern at the District Court in Belgrade. In 2011, he enrolled the Judicial Academy, which ends on 3 October 2014. He has participated in numerous seminars, both domestic and international conferences. He held a seminar on the topic "The Protection of Human Rights", as well as a visit to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in 2013. He published several papers in the Belgrade District Court's newsletter, so he has certificates, the skills of writing judgments and so on. You've got everything in the material. The next candidate is Stosic Nikola, a judicial assistant at the High Court in Belgrade, born 1981. Law school graduated in 2005, with an average score of 9.45. The judicial exam was passed in 2007. At the Faculty of Law "Union" in 2010 he completed specialist studies in the course of Medical Law. After a judicial trial, he was appointed as a judicial assistant at the First Municipal Court, a litigation department. Starting in 2010 -- the criminally extra-judicial first grade, and since July 2010, he has been working in the High Court in Belgrade, also in a criminal extra-departmental council. He was directed to a special department for organised crime of the High Court in Belgrade. Ratings for his work in the last three years are "specially high". During a statement of the session of all judges, he received votes in support of his professional, trained and proposed election for the judge. The last in a series for the First Court is Škulic Jelena, a judicial assistant in the High Court in Belgrade, born in 1981 in Loznica. The Belgrade Law Faculty graduated in 2005, with an average score of 8.97. First she was an intern, volunteer at the First Municipal Court in Belgrade. The judicial exam took place in 2008 and continues to be called in the First Basic Court and then in the High Court in Belgrade in 2010 as a judicial assistant in calling a senior judicial associate, acting in organised crime cases under the Special Department for Organized Crime. In 2011, 2012, and 2013, they were deemed to be ‘in particular to stand out’. In the opinion of his colleagues and directly the Greater Court, Škulić Jelena meets all the conditions for selecting a judge for the First Court. Short summary. Since you've heard the short biographies, I didn't want to refer you in detail, since you have the material. You can see it's a mature generation. They're candidates from 1975 to 1981. The average college grade is also impressive. It doesn't have to be a guarantee of quality, but it's supposed to be great. The average score is 8.0 to 9.5. The three-year period under examination is estimated to be "expected". You can see that these are candidates who are participants in many seminars, conferences, round tables, international and domestic conferences. They all started working from 2000 to 2005. So they've already got a long internship. Everyone started working in courts, which is also good. Everyone, I haven't read that part to you, speak one to two languages, which is also good because of these European integrations and regular meetings with them. So these are candidates who are really impressive. Let me also inform you that 398 has applied for that ad for the first court, which means 400 candidates. Of that, 14 judges, 310 judicial assistants, and the other persons, these are persons outside the judiciary and lawyers – 74. Apart from the judges, everyone's been interviewed because it's very important, the candidates are presumed to be written, but whether they're oral. In this direct dialogue and interview with them we have seen what they are, whether they can really do their knowledge and those assessments to justify and to sit and judge. Those interviews are very important. Based on all of this, we've decided and made out of these 400 people a choice of 60 fantastic ones. Then we were in trouble as far as we could, because it only takes 12. We wouldn't be wrong, believe me, if we had suggested any of that group, of the 60 we'd narrowly chosen. But I think these are really the best of the best. So much for now for this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23581	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government want the People's MP Petar Petrovic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23582	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, we today have a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to judicial office. You said the High Council of the Judiciary had a hard job from a lot of candidates to choose the best. I have no doubt that your decisions were professionally correct, that you took care of what you could read about the candidates from their biographies, the assessment they received by working in the judiciary and on the basis of your personal impression of both what it says and whether you believe that each candidate and working with the defendants will be able to fulfill his task in the work of the judiciary. Sometimes, being a judge does not just mean knowing the good stuff, but also means performing, good approach to both the defenders and the defendants, and, ultimately, protecting the reputation, the profession and her honor. You said the average rates during the study were 8.0 to 9.5. You didn't say that, but the biography could have suggested that all of them had finished state colleges, that there were no college graduates "over the night" and that there were no masters and any other knowledge at private schools, "over the night", or how they knew that certain ministers, in colleges which, apparently, they didn't even see, were hard to recognize where they were. However, your objectivity of evaluation, of course, should not be questioned. What I wanted to say today, since it's about young judges who haven't even been able to make a mistake yet, is a context in which they choose both the judiciary and the judicial system that awaits them, which they will face. This is more my message to these young people who will share justice, what is really waiting for them in the judiciary and how their effects or their work will be socially accepted. These young colleagues can expect that persons found guilty, convicted, one day some minister will amnesty and meet them on the streets. Those young colleagues must be prepared to meet some of those individuals who will condemn them again in courtrooms for the same crimes they have convicted them of. These days we have one case of a murderer who was amnested to the government's proposal to this assembly and who committed the same murder, the murder of an old woman. It is possible that the judge who tried this crime will again receive such a case and these young judges must be prepared for such situations. Simply, social circumstances sometimes depended on those young people who were learning law, who were excellent students, the best students, who were among the 400 registered in the group of those 12 chosen. So it's really one selection that shows that they're the best. But do they have the best social conditions in which they will judge? Is it possible that the President of the Republic will be abolizing some of the convicted perpetrators of the criminal...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23583	Mr. Veselinović, when we talk about the law, that's what we're talking about. I took your word temporarily. Mr. Veselinovic, it's about candidates for judges. Leave the president when we discuss it, if you can get enough MPs together, about his mistrust here in the assembly. Talk about the candidates. Please. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23584	I'm talking about candidates and candidates. So, I'm talking about them and I'm sending them a message that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23585	I haven't read anywhere that one single candidate is the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23586	You didn't understand me very well, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23587	I understand you perfectly, and I know what you're saying, but that's not the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23588	I said it was possible for some of their convictions to be put out of force by having the President of the Republic abolize the perpetrator of the crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23589	What does that have to do with the candidate?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23590	There is, because they need to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23591	They wouldn't be candidates if they didn't know. Please proceed according to the agenda, in accordance with Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23592	It may happen to young judges, there are judges here who are elected as criminal judges, that they have before them persons who have hundreds of criminal charges, whose criminal charges are outdated due to confusion in a court that has not worked for four months because of a strike by a lawyer, because of the responsibility of the minister of justice. It may be that they condemn the person and that two years are not carried out a sentence that is justly valid. And that's what we've had these days. And that the person who might have sentenced the lucky person at the sports game to work in security, the person who's had a criminal conviction for two years. All of this can happen to these young colleagues who have a score between eight and nine and a half, through seminars, through education, learning languages, excellent language, world languages, and many of these things can happen to them. I invite them to stay away from the spirit, to bring energy into the work of the judiciary and to rebel against it if something like this happens in the judiciary, if what's been going on for the last two or three years. I hope to have your support at the High Court Council. I have another message for those people who will be chosen. The Social Democratic Party and our MP group "Together for Serbia" and "Green Serbia" will vote in favour of selecting all these judges because we have confidence in your work and we count that they are not selected by any standard, except for their knowledge and quality acquired during education. I call on them, of course, not to bow down and not to judge when it comes to the religion, which are nations, which are professions, and whether they are sons of certain tycoons and whether they are sons of individual ministers, MPs, to judge only by the law and by what is written in the law and not to give in to pressures and to have political trials. Of course, that would be very bad for our judicial system, which is rich in these examples. I want to congratulate them in advance and wish them a lot of success and happiness and, of course, to endure in that very difficult way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23593	The right to reply has been authorised by SNS MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23594	Thank you. I just have to do it for the public and for the sake of the truth, because I expected from a previous speaker who is a doctor of legal science to know the difference between the jurisdiction of the basic court and the higher court. He was talking about the most serious crimes in the jurisdiction of a senior court. Today we choose the judges of the basic and criminal court. Also, my previous speaker showed basic ignorance when he spoke of criminal courts and criminal courts, crimes and crimes. We've been listening to one of the tyrads politically, we haven't talked about candidates at all. I am glad that we agree in one piece, which is that for the judiciary is the most important independent judiciary, but I am sorry that the previous speaker did not take care of it when his colleagues were in power, when they had their minister who in 2010 made of the judiciary what they did, who chose judges for political belongings, who is a member of their party and who is fit to judge. I don't understand why my previous colleague didn't raise his voice and talk about an independent judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23595	Right on line, Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23596	My colleague, apparently, did not listen carefully, and for her as someone who comes from a legal profession and I think legal professions even, it would be very important to listen when speaking to the other side or even colleagues in the National Assembly. I was talking about the legal system in which colleagues enter, so I wasn't talking about the crimes they were going to judge. I hope that one day these colleagues from the primary courts will go to several courts, because, in the hierarchy, they may one day also be judges of the higher court and judge these acts. But I didn't talk about it, I was talking about the system that they're going into and what they're expecting someday. In that sense, I gave one message. I don't think anyone could have understood her, except for the evildoers, differently, but as one message that is a warning to judges what justice system they're entering and what dangers they should be afraid of, and that judicial system is not only created by judges. It is also created by this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia through a supervisory function it has both according to the Ministry of Justice and which it has in control of law enforcement. It is created by the executive power when it destroys the inequality of the pillars of power, legislative, judicial and executive. It is also made by the people's messengers when they give judgments after these speakers and press charges even though this is not a courtroom but a National Assembly. In that sense, this is what I realized was a purely political pamphlet which was pronounced by a colleague and has nothing to do with the expert debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23597	The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Nedo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23598	Dear representatives of the VSS, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the SPS parliamentary group, is primarily primarily in favour of the absolute independence of the judiciary, but at the same time, today we have a situation that we have a kind of obligation. Although we are in favour of an independent judiciary in general and we believe that parliament should not decide on the choice of judges, today we have a constitutional obligation and a legal obligation, to make a decision on a proposal for a VSS to elect judges who are first elected as holders of judicial functions. Therefore, at the very beginning of this discussion, I would like to point out that the SPS parliamentary group will support, in the voting day, all the proposals from the decisions that are today a part of the agenda and that we will vote exactly as the VSS has proposed. The SPS parliamentary group is pleased that the VSS has proposed candidates, who according to those biographies, but, above all, according to the opinions of all the judges in the courts where the candidates worked, gave a positive assessment and a positive opinion on these candidates. Why are we in the SPS parliamentary group taking the view of the session of all judges in relation to everything their biographies contain? It is simply because the judges who are most directly addressed and directly related to the work of their judicial assistants, and at the same time relying on the judge's assistants in their work, and how well they know how much their work is worth, how much they are professional, how much they are worthy, how responsible they are in their work and in this regard, the judges have the highest role, and at the same time the highest degree of responsibility, to carry out such an assessment. Of course, we in the SPS parliamentary group want to believe that there is no false solidarity in this view, that there are no sympathys that are not based on real indicators, on that criterion that implies a measurable criterion and a verifiable criterion, are they really those candidates that are worth or are not? Otherwise, there would be a complete devaluation, not only of the judiciary, but of the destruction of what was already destroyed in 2010 when, as counterpart Bilja said, something was done that implies a huge problem, which implies creating a sick state in the judiciary. So when we talk about the criteria that candidates have to meet to be elected judges, we have to point out something that is very important, which is that, in addition to what their success means during their studies, which is valorized through the average rating, it involves another criterion, which is the criterion, their indicators in practice, their indicators in the work itself, because it is a very common case, a very large number of cases that precisely those candidates, regardless of the profession, whether they are legal profession, medical profession, engineering profession, which have an inconspicuous average of grades, which have shown excellent knowledge, as theoretical knowledge at the university, in practice, could not have been very good at getting along and did not give adequate results in practical work. Here we have come across several examples where we do not have impressive grades, such as in Sjenica or Novi Pazar, but that is why we have to accept what we have to take as measurable and as a criterion, that these candidates who have an average of 7, and even below 7, have shown themselves in their practical work with a very high assessment, that they are particularly good at their work, that they have shown themselves both in practical work and in participation, in education, in the work of consulting at seminars, in everything else that is stated here. I think that's enough to be accepted by this Assembly, by our MPs as a reason for these candidates to be supported. However, it should be said that it is for these people, whom I am sure will be elected judges, and those judges who are elected for the first time for three years, from the day of the election there is both a great burden and a great burden of responsibility. This responsibility is linked not only to their work, but also to the work of the court in which they are elected, and thus to the success of the judiciary in general. Unfortunately, these people will also be burdened by what has been burdening the Serbian judiciary for years, and this is still a problem, ineffectiveness or insufficient efficiency of the courts, and even the judiciary in general, and this is an unequal case law which is one of the generators that cause problems related to the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, and that is at the same time what means a violation of the party's right to obtain a ruling within the prescribed deadline, because it is not often that, instead of a sentence, it is within 30 days, made after a year, and even after a year, it delivers to the party. The question arises, and the MPs here are likely to have similar experiences, and who has so far taken responsibility in the judiciary, if he has exceeded that deadline, and even if he has exceeded it in a month, not let alone those who overstep him for a year. Who has been sanctioned for this, has he been called to account on what grounds and has he brought an adequate measure for this kind of responsibility, which is certainly governed by law? We're not sure there's a lot of cases of such courts and such judges. It is no doubt that these are the indicators of the sick state of justice inherited from the earlier period, which both the VSS and the Ministry of Justice are struggling with today, which we are facing right here in the National Assembly, when we are discussing the candidates' proposals for the election of judges. I will now use a bit of metaphorical terminology, so I will say – to apply adequate therapy for the sick situation in the Serbian judiciary, in addition, it is necessary that just the ones we choose today be subjected to the very beginning of the continuing process of monitoring and monitoring their work, and thus the continuous evaluation of their work. As well as all other judges, and those judges who are working today and who will work, because their continuity of judicial functions is guaranteed by the Constitution. If a permanent process is not established, a permanent monitoring of the quality of their work, we come to an objective danger that, both those we choose today or who will choose for a few days, and those who are already holders of judicial functions, we relax in a situation that can in fact undermine their work under all the negative phenomena and circumstances that I have talked about earlier. Why am I saying this? Dear colleagues from the VSS, it is best known to you that we have been without a rule that objectively values the criteria for assessing the work of judges. The last true rule that was passed since 1993 was brought in 2004, when the process, the judicial reform process, began to form some kind of regulation, but more populist, in order for the total debacle, to experience total fiasco in 2010. I must also mention here with the respect of one of the then Ministers of Justice, Mr Batic, who tried to in the judiciary, I can freely say, introduce order, precisely a methodology that relates to objective evaluation and evaluation of the work of judges. Unfortunately, this has not happened, until this current VSS composition finally recognized the problem of expertise, i.e. intricacies in courts. Why? Well, after that fiasco we had in 2010, and today, a number of midwives, just from that time, show us that we have problems that we created, and they don't remember, have very short and limited memory to remember what was done in 2010, we have to point out something that is very important. Today's candidates, which we are discussing and who, I'm sure we'll choose, must in no case experience the fate experienced by the judges in 2010, when, regardless of who was professional, who was not professional, who was worthy, who was not worthy, who was successful in the work and who was not successful in the work, in terms of the quality and quantity of the indicators of their work, as many as 700 judicial officials from that time were removed from the courts. Based on what? Based on what criteria? Whether the process was transparent or not, many, many relevant, many relevant institutions have given the courts. By decision of the Constitutional Court, or better to say on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision, all of them again, whether they are professional or not, whether they are worthy or not, have been returned to the courts. Today we have a situation in the courts that you gentlemen are trying to bring to some level that implies the level of quality of work of the judiciary and the judicial system in general, which is to finally begin with the evaluation and evaluation of the work of the judges. I think it is finally time to avoid occurrences that are very harmful to the state, because we are in a situation where precisely because of these phenomena, because of the occurrence of a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period, the right to a fair trial, the party after having exhausted all legal mechanisms in our country, in the Serbian judiciary is using its right, as the last right to apply to the court in Strasbourg, and because of these violations, it indicates that its legal interest, that its right is compromised, that it has suffered damage, and that damage is multipled, and that damage is ultimately always linked to the burden of the republican budget, because the decisions of the court in Strasbourg are mainly indicating that the state is obliged to compensate for all those whose rights are violated. Do we have to let that happen? No, I don't. Is that supposed to allow these judges to be elected? No, I don't. Absolutely, the SPS parliamentary group stands at the point that only the profession, expertise, knowledge and quality in the work of judges must be something that is valued in order for the holders of judicial functions to be entitled to those who will make decisions and who will share justice, and justice must be available to all citizens. Of course, in this direction, the SPS parliamentary group provides strong support for the VSS, which has started applying the regulation on assessing the work of judges, because recently the Commission, which as a kind of pilot of the project, has started to assess the work of judges in low-level courts, I mean basic and multiple courts. I have to be honest right now, maybe a little personal, because first of all I come forward of the SPS parliamentary group, but as a man who's tied to the judiciary and whose advocacy as a lawyer, I need to draw attention to the need and how well to consider whether or not to apply the rules on the assessment of the work of the judges of the republican rank. I'll state two reasons why I think they're very well-founded. First of all, who's supposed to judge the Supreme Court of Cassation, or the Court of Commerce? In my deep conviction, if the people of the judges who are according to these criteria, which you have applied, chosen, and particularly elected Supreme Cassation Court, this means that this is a sufficient criterion of their quality and a sufficient criterion for their status to be accepted and recognised as judge parexelans. A judge who's responsible for other judges doing well. A judge who has the responsibility to have the highest degree of profession and judge who has the responsibility that this degree of profession must be practically manifested through the assessment of judgments, and thus the assessment of the work of low-level courts. It's a way of grading. Whether or not the verdict will be abolished or confirmed, that is the way the judges who are hierarchical are evaluated below what they assess in terms of making that decision. But for that we must also take good care of how other judges are judged. Mrs. Ilic and her colleague Ilic, and how well you know that even at the beginning of the application, this rule did not give adequate information that relates to the best way of assessing. I will point only to certain phenomena and circumstances that I am convinced you have in mind and that you will certainly apply them in some further practice. First of all, we all know that when the judge's work is assessed, it mainly binds to two common criteria, quantity and quality. Quantity mainly for a solution to the inflow of objects, the total number of items that have arrived, at which speed is solved. Quality, the number or percentage of decisions it has abolished, and the number of convictions confirmed. However, we must not slave with it alone. Mostly something is happening that should be recognized as a possible or potential problem through unequal court practice. He can't have a judge slaved in court practice. Judicial practice is an evolutionary process and must adapt to circumstances and times. The case-law of ten years ago compared to court practice today is two diametrically different concepts. The judge must be creative. As evolutionary court practice is, he's as creative and evolutionary a judge. Of course, he can't get out of court practice, but we can't slave with court practice. We can't keep covering ourselves with court practice to make the right number of decisions. So what if a judge makes 50 judgments or 500 convictions because he respected court practice, and the circumstances are so changed that even court practice no longer corresponds to what makes it an ambience for achieving a legal-protective search for a party, what kind of judge is that? It certainly can't be a judge who will be properly and well rated, because I don't think it should be assessed that way, even worse than it can be considered positive. Secondly, what's very important is that we finally try to stimulate the judges through the Justice Department. We have a situation where the judge goes beyond norm, even 100%. We have judges who always work within the limits of the norm. He's gone a little too far. Now let's be honest, what is the incentive of those who have exceeded the standard? What's their stimulant? What is it that you, Mrs. Ilic, are stimulated if you have zero objects in your work today? You have the same income as other colleagues who have 100 items or 300 items in their work. Is that right or wrong? The answer is unnecessary, of course not. The next question that must be asked in this direction, should the presidents of the civil departments be reduced by the inflow precisely because of the function and the work they have? They're loaded, and they have to make sure they respect the norm at the same time. The next question, whether the judge's evaluation of the work is worth the recommendations that judges prepare for counseling and education we have Vrnjačka Banja, we have Zlatibor, we have excellent educations led by the economic court of appeal, more than extremely high quality. Where are the judges stimulated for those reports? Where are your reports shown through their evaluation? They only have the satisfaction of helping you with your education, which has helped you to educate us, like those who are eager to learn. Nothing more, that's all. It is a satisfaction to them, but on the other hand, where are the material strongholds in their work and the evaluation of their work? One last thing, the rulebook that needs to be applied, is applicable when you have enough objects. What do we do when there's not enough class? What are we gonna do about it? You, as an exceptional judge, have few cases. Then, applying the rulebook to you will be negative, you will be negatively evaluated. I've got a lot of cases, so I might be positively rated if I'm a judge. All these problems that arise in practice are just mentioned for reasons for the newly elected judges to be properly evaluated and evaluated as they mean the quality of their work, whether they are quality or not. In the end, the last sentence, since I have exceeded time, the SPS parliamentary group truly provides unreserved support to these suggestions, provides you with unreserved support in the work, provides support for everything you do and the efforts you make to improve the situation in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23599	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23600	Mr. Vice President, the distinguished ladies of the High Council of the Judiciary, the esteemed fellow Members and fellow MPs, I will be very brief. I didn't want to report as chairman of the Justice, State and Local Self-Government Committee earlier, but to take advantage of this time that belongs to the JS parliamentary group. I will say immediately at the beginning of the JS parliamentary group to support the proposal sent by the High Council of the judiciary to the National Assembly for the selection of judges for a number of courts in the Republic of Serbia for the first time. At the same time, I want to say that I'm a little reluctant to take part in this debate or maybe I wasn't present when the agenda was established, I didn't know that maybe the issue was added - the problems in the judiciary and how to solve them, because I see that a number of colleagues talked more about it, and less about the choice of judges who first chose to serve as judges for a period of three years. I can say that, since I had this fortunate circumstance that as chairman of the board, I was involved in the work of the High Council of the Judiciary when he formed and established the proposal that we have today, that this proposal for the election of judges who were first elected to the judicial office was adopted on the High Council of the Judiciary unanimously, and that the previous commission formed by the same High Council of the Judiciary was a hard and professional job and came to the proposal that went to the High Council of the Judiciary and it is before you today. What we all need to know here is that all these candidates and candidates that we have before us today are judges or judicial associates five, eight, 10, 12 and I don't know how many years, in basic, senior, appeals or economic courts. So these are all candidates and candidates who have long-standing work in the judiciary. So, they can already, as they say, how many yesterday to take the judge's place and start doing that job, because for years they've been working with their fellow judges, working on judgments, solutions, various decisions, etc., and they're very professional that they can do judicial work. Today we choose judges who, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and according to the Law on the Choice of Judges, we choose the so-called. a three-year term and we call them three-year-olds, and after three years, they will be elected to a permanent judicial office, based on an assessment of their work in the judiciary, or in courts where they are elected. Let's just say that there's a rule on the judge's performance assessment. It has already been passed, but certain objections have arrived from the Brussels Commission, as far as I remember, Mrs Ilic, so the working group has taken into account these objections and here, just these days before the members of the High Council of the Judiciary, is, let me say, a proposal, or a draft of that regulation, which will be adopted in the very near future at the High Council of the Judiciary. As far as the JS parliamentary groups are concerned, the dilemma is gone, we will support the proposal of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, because we believe that all these proposed candidates and candidates deserve to bear the name of the judge, whether in basic, criminal or commercial courts. Today we choose here, that is, in the voting day, we will elect judges for the First Basic Court in Belgrade, for the basic courts in Sjenica and Negotina, Pazar, Ivanjica, etc. I can, on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, wish these newly elected judges to have success in their work, to stick to the Constitution and the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, not to be subject to any political and any other pressures, but to work either by their grandmother or by their uncles, as we usually say in Serbia and to make decisions that will be based precisely on the law and on facts presented before them, etc. It will surely come to a situation that some of their decisions by higher court cases may be corrected, returned to re-determination, etc., but it is life, it is happening today, etc. I wouldn't be spreading the subject. I propose, Mr. President-in-Office of the Assembly, that if we are to discuss all the problems that exist in the judiciary, that we have one thematic session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which will read - problems in the Serbian judiciary and how to address them. We today, and I appeal to all colleagues and colleagues, we should only talk about candidates who are ahead of us today and say – this and this candidate may not be satisfied by someone's judgment and challenge that candidacy and nothing else. The High Council of the Judiciary has made a proposal. The JS parliamentary group, as I said, is behind this proposal, we will vote for it. Once again, I want a lot of success and happiness for the elected judges who will be elected, I hope, in a few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23601	Thank you. The word is by MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23602	Thank you. Dear Chairman, representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have heard what proposals for a choice of candidates today are before us for judges who are first elected to this responsible and significant function. The Serbian Progressive Party unreservedly supports the work of an independent judiciary, unlike some earlier times and earlier parties, who were party-chosen by judges. But unfortunately, we have amnesia in these parties that brought down the judiciary in 2010. The burden of the court is such that we have a large number of pending cases from earlier years, and unfortunately, the lack of judges contributes. We need to choose a lot more judges than we have on the agenda today, and you know it. There are judges who have more than 300 cases in their work. For this reason, there are judges who order trials. Unfortunately, we have examples in the Novi Sad Court of Commerce, only twice a year or executions that last three to five years on the basis of an executive document or in the basic court, where the next hearing is scheduled in February for the main debate in October of this year. When it comes to these proposed candidates, from the attached biographies that you have read, which we have received, it is clear that the High Council of the judiciary has been managed by considering the results of the work of these proposed candidates, the opinion of the college, which is only one of the parameters related to the selection of judges, length of internships, quality in the work so far. In the context of all these facts, the High Council of the judiciary has been guided by the desire to choose the highest quality candidates. It is important that the High Judicial Council proposes the highest quality candidates who have been in the judiciary for a long time, in order to speed up the work of the judiciary, to make everything possible for the judiciary to be more quality in the coming period, and for judges to be more transparent, more efficient, more professional, but more responsible. I hope these proposed candidates, when elected judges, will judge within a reasonable period of time, that they will not suffer the pressures, that they will end their cases in time, that there will be no disciplinary applications and that, as my colleague said, there will be no influence on them, that they will only deal with the rules of the profession. We have also heard that, in accordance with the Law on Judges, the High Council of the Judiciary for all candidates has obtained opinions on professionality, competence and dignity for the performance of the judicial post. We will agree that in order to perform such a function, it is significant that the candidate fulfils all these conditions, that he meets all the conditions to be professional, qualified and worthy to raise the level and quality of justice in Serbia overall. I point out that it is important that the candidates who are professional, which you have assured us, these biographies we have read, that all candidates are responsible, safe, worthy of judicial functions, that their choice for the courts they have applied for and for which they have been proposed at this session of parliament will raise the level of both the work of these courts and the judiciary in Serbia, which they meet back several years, but are successfully trying to deal with all the problems. The Serbian Progressive Party will support this election. We will vote for these candidates in the voting day. I really wish them good luck in their work, to endure work without pressure and to judge by conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23603	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23604	Mr. Chairman, ladies of the High Council of the Judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our authorised representative in the Assembly said that we as a parliamentary group would support the proposal of the candidate who, independent of this assembly, did the High Council of the judiciary. We as MPs, no matter what we did, what we do, what we do, what we do, we have not participated in any way in the selection of these candidates, we have not proposed anyone, we have not weighed anyone, we have not intervened for anyone, we have not given any suggestions, we have not called anyone on the phone. We've left you, as one expert body, to decide. What I know is a competition that could be heard by all those who meet these conditions and all those who want to perform this honorable and very difficult function. All of them answered, gave their biographies, the High Council of the Judiciary formed a commission that examined each candidate, each paper, requested the opinion of the courts in which they were working, asked for their assessment, and then had an interview with each of the candidates. I know it's a very difficult job, but it's the only way to get to, from a huge number of candidates, from a large number of people who wanted to be judges to be elected, number 12. You said you made a selection and you chose 60 of the best, and then out of those 60 you had to, there was simply no more room to choose the best of the best. The grades you've given here on them say it's about people and candidates who proved themselves first in college, with an average score of 8-9.5, which in state colleges, you'll admit, is not easy at all. It is easy in these colleges where Mr. Veselinović teaches, who is now not in the O.R. and who talked about everything in his presentation, and at least about these candidates. It's easy to finish law school there in two years, you don't even have to show up. When you have professors like this, such as Mr. Veselinović, it is very important that you teach such professors, rather than end up in a state-run law school, and that is a sure sign that you are a good candidate. After that, each of them, somewhere, started their careers, of course, as trainees, some were in law enforcement, some by basic courts and others, and in three years back, according to how you received the report, were particularly prominent. This “particularly pointed out” means that they were the first to come to work, that they were the last to leave, that they were interested in every store in that court where they were, that they went to all possible seminars, that they had received all possible certificates, that they had studied foreign languages along the way. That, of course, they haven't learned in three years, but obviously there is one general education that they acquired through high school and later in college. That's what I'm very grateful for, as a folk MP, knowing how this High Council has been working for the past three years, knowing that no affair, no stain, no objection could be told to you. You have not heard today in the assembly, nor will you hear from any MPs any objection against the candidates you have suggested to us. Because there is no stain on their careers, because the Serbian public knows that the most transparent choice is made by these judges, we will vote in the Voting Day, as a parliamentary group, to vote for your proposal, to support what you have given us. I underline, in the earlier period of 2009, judges were elected in this way. There was a coffee shop in Nis, a lowly cafe, there was a chairman of the Justice Committee, who at the time cheered and dressed in Serbia, who decided who would be the judge and who would not be the judge, had a war headquarters. The war headquarters developed flags and geographical maps of Serbia with arrows, marking courts that were municipal until then, so they were renamed basics. The number of these basic courts has been reduced. The county's been renamed to several courts. That's where the hatiters are written, it's written who can be, and who can't. Whoever was close to DS, who was close to the then minister of justice, was able to pass. One for whom DS municipal committees gave their agreement and opinion, those candidates for whom DS MPs gave their opinion and the view that they could be judges, such judges passed and no one else could pass. That's why we had over 800 judges and prosecutors who lost their jobs. There were a lot of people doing the job for over 20 years, even 30 years, who haven't repented at all, who were completely independent of politics and of all political parties, but it was their biggest distraction, they weren't close to the DS and they couldn't get through. It is only to remind Serbia's public that it was once chosen, so that we can make a parallel between what was and what is today. What my suggestion is, as a man who's been in this profession for more than 25 years, is a lack of judges, a lack of number of judges. In many courts in Serbia, by verticals, you have a huge number of cases, a huge inflow in all matter, and you have a small number of judges. According to the system, there are still a few judges in each court. My appeal is to the High Judicial Council to solve this matter as soon as possible. Since you have a huge number of candidates, which you have now listed and will report to each of the next competitions, even go to a place where they do not have a place of residence, in order to perform the function that they have been trained for and for which they have given their whole self. I think you need to think that way, and as long as you work this way, make sure you have full support for both the SNS and its parliamentary groups and the entire professional public in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23605	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23606	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, how much time does the parliamentary group have?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23607	You've got about 155 minutes. Will that be enough for you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23608	I'll make sure it fits in, since my fellow farmer isn't here, I'll have to speak for two. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say something, not only about Belgrade judges, but also about the 11th and 12th agenda, as the debate is united. So, about judges elected in Kragujevac, Ivanjica, Novi Pazar, Sjenica, etc. I am very fond of candidates who will be elected and their biographies, and I will not hide it, although I have never been a supporter of particularly the third branch of the government, because reformation was carried out in 2009, better said deformation of the judiciary, that by political basis, by political likeness, a large number of judges were chosen, while all others who were unsuitable were rejected from those functions, because they simply did not join certain political parties in time. As far as I can see, these candidates are all alive, I believe, and I'm sure that what happened to those who, by party principle, chose judges, now if they die, they don't delete him from the political party he joined and they choose him as a judge by membership, then it turns out that the dead man was elected judge. Such a failure must never happen again to any choice of judges in any reforming or deforming of the judiciary. We choose a few dozen judges here. I congratulate them in advance, but I still don't think it's enough to correct everything that was a coat of arms, which was born in 2009, 2010. So it's a judicial system that's been found and citizens have a lot of objections, precisely because of the way it's been implemented, so-called. The reform of the judiciary. As MPs, we receive complaints every day about the various actions of certain judges who were most likely not satisfied with their quality, but who were with the membership of certain political parties and how they satisfied. There was, of course, nepotism, especially in Vojvodina, I no longer know which judges are of the kind, it is almost impossible to make marriages in certain courts in Vojvodina because most of them are related to each other. So it's almost impossible for them to enter a marriage union because of a close kinship. This is the way a formerly elected judge, or elected judge, was particularly expressed in 2009 and 2010. I will not talk about amnesty, who is how amnesty, regardless of what 2,000 criminals were amnesty in 2001 and has been amnested even by brothers along the river and the main terrorists at KIM. Unlike my colleague, I won't say it, but I have to say that he's had an objection to private colleges, regardless of which he's a law professor, I don't think it's nice to talk like that about private colleges, since he's the one who talked about private colleges as very bad educational institutions, that he teaches himself in private colleges and doesn't need someone to appreciate education in private colleges by himself, if he teaches there, if he doesn't think he's good enough, that doesn't mean that all private colleges are bad. Since there are no candidates here who have passed the right in Novi Sad, I am almost certain that a colleague who teaches at the Faculty of Law did not teach them and thus their quality is far higher. So there's no danger that they're in some kind of uneducated situation, as far as the law is concerned. So, given that they did not lay it before such a professor, I believe that they are also of sufficient quality, which he did not teach them, they do not come from the party which he belongs to, so these candidates are already far better than those candidates who were elected in 2009 and 2010. I also want to say that, as far as we're concerned, most of the MPs here, we're going to try, regardless of how it was done before, to preserve the independence of the third branch of power, that it really is independent, but we also have to take care, not only to be independent of this current government and of this current government, but to help these judges to be independent of the former authorities, but I think, unfortunately, and the vast majority of my colleagues confirm it on the ground, that our judiciary, which is in 2009 and 2010, is chosen, where even dead people are elected for judges, therefore, this judiciary, that part of the judiciary is not independent of the authorities, of today is not from the former, and hence many of the charges returning to doping, hence the inaccurate, hence the judgments which have no relation to some rational thinking, of so many citizens. They are mainly the product of what was done to our judiciary in 2009 and 2010. What should never be done again. The judiciary must indeed be independent, it must not happen that a person who is in a party, in a working relationship, will be elected tomorrow, let's say in the war crimes prosecutor's office, performs a certain function there. What kind of independence is it when a minister of justice allows himself to be employed in a party, it is kind of understandable to me, which suggested him to be a minister of justice, and the next day directly from the party's post went to the prosecution, and thus the prosecution showed the reception of such a party's staff, the former minister of justice, showed its dependence on the former government, which is mainly the generator of bad decisions, the poor solutions in the execution and all that our citizens face today, where in certain places there is also a clear combination of crime and justice because it was not taken into account when reforming judicial reform, mostly due to party obedience, the deformation of this judiciary in such a way, and therefore, as a product, we have various decisions and judgments that differ from both justice. I want to congratulate all the candidates and I want them to be what the former government failed to achieve in 2009, so that they are truly independent of both the current and the former authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23609	Thank you. Right to the replica of Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23610	Since the previous speaker mentioned a law professor who spoke before him, I thought he was referring to me, but just to correct a lie that wasn't the first time heard from the SNS parliamentary benches, I don't teach at any private college, not one private university, I teach a lecture at two state colleges. I graduated from the state college, master's degree and doctorate at the state college, and when I talked about private schools, I talked more about those who finished them and they are in the executive authority, and less about the quality of the lecture and the quality of the professors at those private colleges. There are also high-quality professors in these private schools, some of whom are even more quality than professors at state schools, some have gone from state colleges to private schools, and in that sense I have not entered that part. However, there is a very, very controversial fact that some high-ranking officials, in a very strange way, have completed certain private colleges. I wanted to do it this way to resolve any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23611	Right on the replica, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23612	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I do not know what the previous colleague has identified himself for, apparently, recognized himself in my discussion where I spoke about certain law teachers who have a very poor opinion of private colleges. I didn't invent private colleges, they weren't created during the reign of the SNS or during the rule of the People's Peasants' Party. So, these private colleges were created during the government of the former regime and if they are not good enough, if they do not do their teaching well, it is not the fault of the current government that will in any way try to control the work of such colleges, it is the fault of the previous government. I can't believe the previous speaker allowed himself to suspect some graduates of some statesmen who graduated from colleges just during their rule. So the colleges they established ended them during their reign. I can't believe that they had colleges that sold diplomas, but if he claims that such colleges were educated during their government and that they were selling diplomas during their authorities, I mean, since the judicial authorities are here, that some prosecutor takes and invites my colleague of the previous speaker to document his statement, because he won't file any criminal charges, which are officials, state, former, present, etc. bought diplomas, ended up in those bad private colleges, which were established during the former government. Especially those remarks for those students who graduated from the private colleges they established and ended them during their reign. So, finally, to conclude that I don't, they're all a little impatient, here I am almost thrilled that none of these candidates passed their rights on to my previous distinguished colleague of law who spoke before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23613	My colleague Pavicevic is not here. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Since no one is answering, I am concluding a joint single search on the motions for decisions in points 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda. So, the president, when she opened the session, continued a joint single search on the motions for decisions set out in points 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda. [[Mirana Ivić addresses the chairman, but is not heard.]] We've just finished and concluded the debate. Well, you could have done business when I called. [[Mirana Ivić addresses the chairman, but is not heard.]] I can't help you. I've concluded the debate. We're moving on with our work. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic - the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. Before the search opens, I remind you that it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Marko Djurisic, president of the parliamentary group want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? We don't have a word for it, so I'm closing a single search into the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. We move to the 18th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You received a proposal for a decision taken by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group on 2 March 2015. Before the search opens, I remind you that it's consistent with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Zoran Babic, president of the parliamentary group want a word? (No) Since we do not have a word on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a single search into the motion for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motion for a decision. This concludes today's work and continues on Tuesday with a start at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-06-0.u23614	Informally, at 10.00 a.m. on Tuesday, the special session begins with the address of An Brasser, and right after that we will continue with the amendments. Just so there's no confusion. Thank you.
