ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question was addressed to the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I believe it is in our country's interest that there are as many departments for studying Serbian language abroad as possible, given that there is a Serb national minority living in this country, that there is about 20,000 of our countrymen and that there is a great interest in learning Serbian language, not only among Serb minorities but also in Romanians. But there are problems, and I believe that the country of origin should protect, help and improve the study of Serbian language and literature as a study programme in as many countries as possible, as well as in Romania, where there are the following problems, because our Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development should indeed, after the accelerated process of resolving the issues of regular approval of the scholarship of Serbian students, i.e. to allow them to attend summer seminars of Serbian language and literature in Serbia, to get the opportunity to stay at one-month scholarships at universities in Serbia. I think it is necessary, and that is something that has been transferred by the General Consul of the Republic of Serbia to Temisvar in talks with the National Assembly of Serbia delegation, in order to restore the funding of the Serbian language lecture at the Western University of Temisvar, i.e. the state finds the necessary means of education through the Ministry of Education for the work of the lecture, so that it will not definitely be shut down, given that the lecturers receive more than minimum funds for their work, of which they cannot survive. All this affects both the quality of teaching and the decline of the number of Serbian students. It is also necessary to sign a new and innovative programme of co-operation in the area of education, science and culture between our country and neighbouring Romania, given that such an agreement from 1956 is still in force. I also refer the second part of the issue to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and concerns the work of the Serbian Theoretical High School "Dositej Obradovic" in Temisovar. I believe that our ministry should allow for the promotion of Serbian language teaching in this very important school facility. It is necessary to consider the possibility of sending a professional study staff to Temisvar from Serbia, which would raise the quality of teaching, given that there is a problem, that there are not enough quality lecturers to teach in Serbian at Obradovic High School, and therefore there should be adequate lecturers from Serbia, because it affects that fewer fewer children are enrolled in this school and that the level of lectures is reduced. The ministry should also allow at least every year 10 graduate high school students from this school to continue their studies in Serbia, with the appropriate scholarships they will receive from our ministry, and I also think that the parent country should send help to this school and when it comes to obtaining lessons, school textbooks, which would be valuable and welcome. The next part of the issue concerns the privatisation process, or further, of the fate of the news publishing company "Dnevnik". My question was addressed to the Minister of Economy. I am interested in what happens to the property-legal status "Dnevnik" from Novi Sad, or whether the fate of this house will be resolved in the package with "Politicals", because "Dnevnik" is of exceptional importance, both at the country level and in general for information in the Republic of Serbia? These are old, respectable, printed media, and I think it's an obligation for the state to inform us what's going to happen to the fate of the Dnevnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23439	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23440	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, one of the most quoted statements in these two days, in addition to what is happening at the "business Forum" in Kopalnik, is the statement by our prime minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, which refers to last year's floods, and what does that make the state stop such ruthless images and events? I'll quote what our prime minister says. Namely, our prime minister said yesterday that it is extremely important to work on flood prevention because, he said, each dinar invested in prevention is equal to seven dinars spent on recovery. Serbia lost 130m euros annually due to floods, and even more to the drought. "Serbia last year's catastrophic floods cost 1.7 billion euros," Vukic said, adding "that this could change with serious behaviour and planning". That's what our prime minister said a year after the relentless floods that hit Serbia in May last year and left what they left behind. As a state, we tried to resuscitate it, with our strengths and the assistance of the international community. I ask the question to Mr. Vukic, as Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture and Director of "Serbia", when will the rash on the Sava River near Sapca be over? A 5.2-mile-long rash, if you remember correctly, where the Sabbath was defended. If you remember that press conference where it's said that Shabac can't fall, and this year he's a problem, because here's a year from that flood and he hasn't been touched and nothing's been done on that embankment. To make it clear to our citizens what I'm talking about, I'm going to remind you of the respected citizens of Serbia that from 2007 to 2012, a 18km ring was made around Sapac and that the 5.2km remains disputed to close the complete defence ring from the floods of the town of Sapca. The tender was launched in 2012, the money was secured, the tender was completed, the contract was to be signed and the contractor introduced into the works. The artist was not introduced into the works. The money has been withdrawn, and here for three years, the text has not been completed. I ask the Prime Minister - why doesn't this end? If we really want to approach the flood problem, why don't we do it when it's time, but now when this rain starts and we have a report from the Hydrometeorological Institute on the increase of water supply on all rivers, the border of defence against floods is, then we're talking about Serbia being defended and we need to be more responsible. The citizens of Sapca and the citizens of Serbia, because it concerns all of us, because every flood directly affects the budget, and the budget is filled with all of us, is interested in why nothing has happened in a year? If there are those responsible to hear who is responsible and how will he be sanctioned? My second parliamentary question is again addressed to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Health. I asked the question on 28 October last year – why didn't the Institute for Palitative Care and Gerontology in Nis, which was planned to start working on all the acts in 2013? I got an unmistakable answer, as I get all the answers from our government, that no one is responsible and that it's local self-government. I am responsibly saying that the local government of the city of Nis and basic health has done everything in their power and all that is up to them in order to get that office in motion. What still needs to be done, registration in a commercial court has been carried out, but the problem is with the ministry and the fund. The ministry did not give a staff plan and agreement on the proposal of the staff plan to the Gerontology and Palitative Care Institute. Secondly, the fund should therefore sign a contract with the institution. Beyond any policy and past any story what interests the citizens of Nis is when will they get that kind of health care? A thousand answers and excuses we can get, but what matters is that health care is in a function in which it should be, i.e. to provide services to the citizens and repeat the question once again, not for what it is not, but when will the Institute of Gerontology and Palitative Care begin to work in the city of Nis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23441	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23442	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I refer my questions to the address of two ministries, the Ministry of Industry and Mr Sertic, as well as the address of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Mr Ljajic. It concerns the company "Lepterija" from Soko Banja. This company has been owned by the state for five years, owns two hotels, a restaurant in an exclusive location, even one bathroom. As of a few days ago, this company is in bankruptcy, and 92 employees are employed at work, no job, no salary, no severance and no social programme. I refer the first question to Minister Ljajic – why has the Government not appointed a management body all these years, more specifically a three-member assembly, and thus in some way tied the hands of both the Director and the Management Board to run this company in full capacity, because without the managing authority, it is not possible to make any strategic document, or any strategic decision. That is why I am once again referring to the question and asking for an answer – why has the Government of the Republic of Serbia not appointed a management body in this company all these years? The second question is referred to Minister Sertic, in my opinion, even more important – why did this company "Lepterija" from Soko Banja not appear on the list of 502 privatisation companies? According to the new law last August, the Privatisation Agency issued a public invitation to submit letters on investor's interest in privatisation of 502 companies. The company "Lepterija" from Soko Banja was 503 and did not appear on this list, although the state owns, although it has a positive capital that far exceeds the debts of this company? If "Lepterija" from Soko Banja was on this list, both the Government and the Privatisation Agency would promote "Lepterija" among domestic and foreign investors knowing that the Agency has issued a public call even in the Financial Times. I am almost certain that at least one letter of interest in privatisation would arrive at the address of the Agency and the company "Lepterija". Even if no investor had taken an interest in this company in that case, then the state along with the other 188 companies would have introduced bankruptcy, but at the same time, workers would have the right to a social programme as part of the government's action plan. Again, today 92 employees are at the jobless employment bureau, no severance and no social programme. I most well-intentionedly ask Minister Sertic and Minister Ljajic to get involved in solving this problem, because if the entire government, domestic and foreign experts, external firms could be involved in solving Smederev's "Gelezzare", then at least two ministers could be involved in resolving the issue. As far as I'm concerned, from me as the MP from Soko Banja and from the local administration, Soko Banja will have full support and full co-operation to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23443	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23444	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question today is addressed to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, which refers to the work of the Vračar City Municipality. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government shall, among other things, carry out the tasks of the state administration relating to the system of local self-government and territorial autonomy, guidance and support to local self-government units in ensuring the legality and efficiency of work. That's where my question comes from, and that's where it's addressed to them. Accordingly, I ask – what will the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government do about the abuse of the appointment of assistants of Vračar municipality? In 2014 alone, the president of Vračar municipality signed the solution 16 times, i.e. the appointment of Vračar municipality assistants. So 16 times in one calendar year. The document in front of me, signed by the president of the Assembly, Dr Tijana Blagojevic, is testifying to a committee issue. Since the Statute of Vračar City Municipality has established that no more than three assistant presidents can be appointed, we are in a position to constantly abuse this institution where the President of the City Municipality has appointed an assistant for a few days or for a few weeks, and then resolve it, and then put a new one in a circle. The one who's been relieved continues to receive his salary for another three months under the law, then a new assistant, by the rule of party soldier, by the rule of the DS and so on, and all on the burden of the citizens. Data about this are very rarely published on the Vračar City Municipality site even though it is an obligation of local self-government, and it is no secret that the salary of the assistant city municipality of Vračar is greater than 100,000 dinars, even somewhere figures that it is about 115,000 dinars, and therefore it is not difficult to calculate how big the money is. That what I just said is the truth to testify and the solution to the setting. I will now read only one solution on the setting of Jovana Mejandzic Djurdzic as assistant president of the town's Vracar municipality for the field of sport and youth for a period of four years, i.e. until the next local elections, starting on 21 July 2014, to start on 29 August of the same year, less than a month, or perhaps more than a month, the President of Vracar Municipality has reached a solution on the resolution of the same person, Jovana Mehandzic-Djurdzic. My question, I repeat, what exactly will the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government do about this, would it not in any way prevent further abuse of this institution by setting up assistants of Vračar City Municipality? Furthermore, I ask the same Ministry a question on the same subject - is it true that the councils of the Vračar City Municipality are appointed as assistants although this is a direct conflict of interest, although it is directly prohibited by the existing law? The example was also Jovana Mejandzic-Djurdzic, which he spoke of just a little while ago, as well as Djordje Delamaric. Furthermore, when I took the word and already potentiated abuses in the work of Vračar City Municipality, I have to ask - did anyone answer for the DRI findings that in 2012, the public company "business space" had claims of 500 million dinars? So he failed to collect his claims. And if the DRI ordered the municipality to exercise control over the business of public enterprises, the National University of Bozidar Adjije and the Sports Centre “Vračar”, the local self-government did not exercise control over the operation of public enterprises, resulting in a decision to liquidate the National University of Bozidar Adjije cultural institution. Is such fate expected by the Sports Centre "Vračar", since it has been doing business with the loss for a long time, since employees do not receive salaries regularly, and that the director plans investments that are directly contrary to the law, i.e. directly comply with the law, but if you ask me also with common sense? Thank you for your attention. I hope I get an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23445	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23446	I thank the chairman. As a member of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I ask the question of the Minister of Education, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Health, because of the problems in the work of inter-resor committees. On the basis of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System and the Regulation on Additional Educational and Health Policy, as well as the Social Support to the Child and Student, the Inter-minister Agreement of then Ministers of Education, Health and Labour and Social Policy of 2011 has educated a joint body to support the work and coordinate of the supervision of the work of Inter-Resorship Commissions for the Assessment of Needs, to provide additional educational, health or social support to the child and student. In the period from 2011 to 2012, the Joint Body held four meetings and launched several activities relevant for the work of inter-resor committees. The last time that body held a meeting, according to the information I had, in November 2013. The task of the joint body is to provide support in the work of inter-resor Commissions for the assessment of needs, to provide additional educational, health and social support to the child and the student, in particular with regard to the organisation of training, support to coordinators in relevant ministries and other aspects of expert and technical assistance, to coordinate the tasks of monitoring the work of the inter-resor committee and to establish a monitoring plan. This body is the basis for effective inter-resorship co-operation in order to improve inclusive education in the Republic of Serbia. However, the current Regulation on the work of inter-resour commissions and the legal framework that regulates their work is not sufficiently resolved. The Commission does not report on its work and the financing of the measures it recommends is inadequate in the largest number of municipalities. That is why my question for all three ministries – when will the work of inter-resour commissions be renewed to better regulate the situation in the field of inclusive education in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23447	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Pavicevic, we haven't even started the session yet. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Let me announce myself. Wait a minute. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Gordana Komic, Susana Spasojevic, Nenad Milosavljevic and Ćorilić Milena. We continue a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in point 4. 5. Six. 7th and 8th agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23448	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr Arsic, respected Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic and respected guests from the Ministry, I believe he is a injured member of 87. The Rules of Procedure, in whose position 1 writes – sessions of the National Assembly are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10 to 18 hours with a one-hour break. We continue today the session we had yesterday on this agenda point, Mr. Arsic, and I don't understand why yesterday's session was interrupted at 15 hours and 20 minutes when it was fine writing in our Rules of Procedure, and yesterday was Wednesday, that we were working Wednesdays until 18 hours? We started the session yesterday, a break was made, as it says here, from one hour to 15 hours. I was preparing for the speaker's order to speak yesterday. I came to this hall at one point and found an empty room without any notice – why was this session interrupted yesterday? I found out that one of the MPs was speaking after the break. We had a series of registered MPs, and I don't understand why yesterday's session was interrupted at 15 hours and 20 minutes, and why haven't we done as the Rules of Procedure has been scheduled until 18 hours? So we decided here yesterday, someone decided that two hours and 40 minutes were not working, and the assembly was supposed to work. As a MP, no one has even informed me that this session has been postponed for the day, and I am not clear on who it is and on what grounds it decides that one session that should be suspended until six o'clock at 15 o'clock and 20 minutes yesterday. For me, it is not only a violation of article 87, but also a member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the MPs and our Assembly, Mr Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23449	Mr. Pavicevic, the session has been interrupted about 16 hours. It says in the Rules of Procedure, as you read it. So, it is not binding, and the reasons for the interruption are that we would respect the dignity of the National Assembly and that during that session, especially while participation in the discussion would be attended by representatives of political parties who do not support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister would be present. So, I don't think there's any particular problem here. We have informed of this, and MPs have an obligation to participate in the work of the National Assembly, and I see no reason why you were not in the O.R. during the 15-hour period. If you were in the O.R., you'd know about the problem. Would you like to go to Parliament's voting day to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. All right. I give my word to Parliamentarian Mariana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23450	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my fellow MP, Miletic Mihajlovic, will talk about other laws that are part of today's united debate, I will focus primarily on the laws confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine on cooperation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria in the area of animal health, as well as the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on veterinary co-operation. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the cabinet of ministers of Ukraine, wishing to continue and expand co-operation in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection, as well as to ensure co-ordination of state phytosanitary measures, have signed an agreement on co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection. The Agreement is in accordance with international standards for phytosanitary measures and the International Convention on Plant Protection and, inter alia, provides for: the taking of necessary measures by the parties to prevent the entry of harmful organisms and quarantine harmful organisms from one another into the territory of the other Contracting Party during the import, export or transit; the exchange of information on the occurrence and spread of harmful organisms and quarantine harmful organisms in the territories of the Contracting Parties; the provision of mutual scientific, technical and other assistance; the procedure in the event of the detection of quarantine harmful organisms in the course of phytosanitary checks. As a reason for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in Plant Quarantine and Plant Protection, the proposer stated that the law should establish a legal framework for the co-operation of the two countries in the field of plant quarantine and plant protection, create conditions for improving the co-operation of the two countries in this area, to step up the co-operation of the two countries' respective ministries, to create conditions for the education of experts and contribute to the development of economic and trade relations between the two countries. In order to achieve its full purpose and awareness of the importance of co-operation in order to prevent the introduction and spread of harmful organisms and quarantine harmful organisms, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support its adoption. The agreement should contribute to a safer and easier placement of our products on the Ukrainian market, and a small geographical distance is a fact to be used for the maximum placement of our products on the Ukrainian market. It should be said that the potential of mutual exchanges is not sufficiently recognized or used, but in recent years there has been a visible shift. In the first half of 2013, a surplus was first recorded in the exchange of two countries. Since then, the growth in exports of sunflower seeds and hybrid corn has continued. In the period January – September 2014 the total exchange of goods and services between Ukraine and the Republic of Serbia was $218.4m, which means an increase compared to the same period of the previous year by 16.7%. Exports of goods and services to Serbia were $102.7m, an increase of 24% and imports of goods and services from Serbia of $115.7m and an increase of 32.1%. The presidents of Serbia's and Ukraine's chambers also signed a memorandum of co-operation on 7 June 2013 to contribute to a better integration of the two countries' economies. On this occasion, it was said that Serbia has a great potential for investment, above all in the area of development of seminary and vegetables, because the possibilities of Serbian agricultural and scientific institutes are great. As regards the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic and People's Republic of Algeria in the area of animal health, it was signed to facilitate the transport of animals and products of animal origin, at the same time to prevent the introduction of infectious diseases and the health of harmful products of animal origin, and to develop cooperation in the veterinary field. Confirming the two countries' cooperation agreement in the veterinary field should give them a legal framework, creating conditions for facilitating transport and increasing the volume of the exchange of agricultural food products of animal origin. The agreement should contribute not only to the co-operation of the competent veterinary authorities of the two countries, but also to the scientific institutions and representatives of the agro-industrial complex. According to data from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, Serbia's total foreign trade with African countries is taking place unequally, slowly and with a permanent deficit on Serbia's side. From 2009 to 2012, exports to the continent ranged from $50m to 125m annually, which was 0.6m to 1.5% of Serbia's total exports during that period, while imports were 130m to 250m dollars or 1 to 1.5% of total imports. In 1982, the trade with Algeria amounted to $500m, and Serbia had a permanent surplus. Today, the situation is such that Serbia and Algeria's trade in goods is symbolic. Serbia has an interest in improving the high level of political relations we have with Algeria in the area of economy. The Serbian-Algiers Business Forum in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce noted that the trade between the two countries has stagnated since the 1990s, but little progress was made in 2012. With the efficient use of potential and a good legal framework, which creates conditions for further development of economic co-operation, we expect in the near future to restore sustainable and consistent co-operation between the two countries. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on cooperation in the veterinary sector has been concluded primarily in order to facilitate trade between animals and products of animal origin, to increase trade in goods in the agricultural sector, and to establish stronger business links between representatives of the agricultural industry. The agreement addresses more issues than the importance of co-operation in the veterinary field, creating conditions for the cooperation of competent veterinary authorities. Co-operation in the veterinary area is being given a legal framework, and thus conditions are being met for other segments of co-operation in the area of agriculture. The agreement should also create a basis for establishing business links between the two countries' representatives of the agricultural food industry and increase the volume of the exchange of agricultural food products. As regards our country's relationship with Uruguay, it should be said that there is a traditional friendship between the two countries, but current economic co-operation is below the possibility of the two countries and it is expressed interest to improve it, especially with regard to increasing external trade and investment investments. Uruguay is one of the strongest economies in South America and this agreement is one of the opportunities for closer economic co-operation. In order to ensure quality and smooth work of veterinary and customs authorities and to ensure traffic control, we need continued co-operation of the two countries' competent authorities. The agreement should contribute to the development of the two countries' scientific and technological ties, since it provides that the signatories of the agreement will seek to organise annual meetings of experts. It is also important to point out that quality, timely and effective veterinary control is a necessary condition for the provision and preservation of animal health as well as for the citizens themselves. In particular, taking into account the adverse effects and the inexplicable adverse consequences of imports of hygienicly invalid products, and in particular the infected and affected animals. Given all these reasons, especially that the application of these agreements should contribute to improving the economic and trade relations between Serbia and the Contracting States of these agreements, as well as to enabling traffic control and greater access, i.e. Exports to foreign markets, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support the adoption of these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23451	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23452	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr. Arsic, respected Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic and respected guests from the Ministry, the MPs of the New Party will, of course, vote for the adoption of these two protocols and three international agreements, but I would like to use this one occasion here now to direct two notes on certain issues that are on the agenda here today, with one previous reminder from Minister Boskovic Bogosavljevic that today is Thursday and that it is time to find out whether you have accepted our four amendments to those two draft laws we discussed on Tuesday. Two days have passed and I think it's okay to find out if it's accepted, maybe even a little bit better to prepare for the amendment debate, Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic. As far as these two protocols and three agreements are concerned, I would like to make two remarks here, not only to Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, but also to all the MPs who are participating in today's debate. First, we are talking here about two protocols under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development. One protocol concerns sustainable tourism and another sustainable forest management. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I read those protocols that we now need to confirm here, it seemed to me that the contents, here at least one of these two protocols -- one picture of a terrible collision with our reality and that we should do much more, that something that is the ambience in which we live is much better than these subjects, gentlemen. Here, let me try to confirm that here. For example, in this Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management, along with the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, I think that a culture of shaming is very clearly promoted. Do we need to belong to that? Of course we should cultivate that culture. Here, I see Article 8. Specific measures in Chapter 3. Article 8 concerns the conservation and increase of areas under forests. Here, in two attitudes the following is said – it is very important that we hear it. It says – each side will take action on its national territory, through sustainable forest management and space planning, in order to preserve existing areas under the forests, as a key component of the karpathic work. The second attitude, which I think, is what I'm talking about even more important now, says – each side will take action on its national territory in order to increase the area under the forests of the Carpathians, etc. What am I noticing now? Here, based on some data, and based on our discussion on the Committee, it tends here and promotes the culture of shaming, and our practice, as far as I can tell, is completely different, we have a culture of cutting the forest. How did I think now? Of course it's okay for us to confirm here a protocol that directs us to a different practice and a different culture, but I was wondering what would happen if we couldn't meet some of the obligations we're taking, for example, based on this protocol. In Vojvodina, as I understand it here, and I'm not from that area, but I've been a little informed about this debate, we have 6% of the territory covered in forests, says the European minimum is 14%. Are we going to succeed in these obligations that are here to be fulfilled, and if we don't, what's going to happen? Have we thought a little bit about whether we are able to meet all the obligations we make under some protocols? Or, I need to make an extra note here about these three agreements. Look, we have three agreements, one signed with the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on 20 September 2011, that is, three and a half years ago, 13 February 2012 with the Republic of Algeria, 6 June 2013 with Ukraine, and all three are looking here, after so long, to be confirmed by the urgent procedure. Why, Mrs. Bogosavljevic Boskovic? Why don't we stick to what the law says, let's say -- how an emergency procedure, when it's been three and a half years since the second two years, from one year and a half, and now, after all this time, we have to do exactly the urgent procedure here to confirm all this? It is important that we stick to some procedures, some good customs, and, of course, rules, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23453	Time, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23454	Of course, I'm waiting for those four amendments that Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic says if they've been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23455	Mr. Pavicevic, while mentioning these amendments, you yourself are violating Article 106. Rules of Procedure. I draw your attention to your adherence to the agenda theme. There is no need for you to mislead the public and citizens of Serbia because these laws are addressed by an emergency procedure, but the National Assembly has removed an emergency procedure from them, you need to know that. These are procedures in the Serbian Parliament, you have to take care of it. You also got the word past the Rules of Procedure, because that's what you wanted. Thank you. As you asked us to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, from now on, we'll stick to it. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman today, Mr. Arsic, respected Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic and respected guests from the Ministry, was injured by a member of the 104th Rules of Procedure, I think, in two ways. First of all, Mr. Arsic, taking down the emergency sign does not mean that the government did not refer these proposals to the emergency procedure and it says so on these documents. Mr Arsic, I did not send this note and criticism to you personally, nor to the MPs, but I sent this criticism and a note to the government today in our Assembly - Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic. I think, Mr. Arsic, that the obligation of the MPs is not to protect the government and the representatives of the government at all costs, but that we here need to fulfill one of the functions of the National Assembly, to control the government, all together here, regardless of whether we are MPs of power or opposition. That's one thing, Mr. Arsic. Secondly, it was not my request that I speak to others at today's session, but it was a request from the representatives of the SNS, who proposed here that because of the opposition's obligations, we, the MPs, speak a little earlier, so that the minister could fulfil her obligation to the MPs now, first and foremost, from the opposition, and that in that spirit we would try to arrange the order of the reported, so that we could speak while the minister is here. In no way have I broken the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic. Please tell me here that you were wrong when you gave the assessment that I acted in such a way that I did not follow the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of our Republic, Your Honor, Mr Arsic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23457	Mr. Pavicevic, it's you again right now, I didn't want to, because advertising is the Rules of Procedure, to distract you. Article 104 refers to the right to a replica, nothing more. As far as procedures are concerned, the government is referring to an emergency procedure, or to a legislator, it is the National Assembly that declares whether or not it will. Some of the 2011 assembly said it wouldn't. I don't see what's going on here. Some other assembly in 2013 also said it would not follow the urgent procedure. I don't see what the dignity of the National Assembly is ruined in. So you're saying yourself that procedures have to be respected and we respect them. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23458	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a respected minister, respected citizens, for the sake of the public, I was yesterday the last speaker to speak about these points of the agenda. Since no respected opposition colleagues were present, it was not possible to hold the debate further, so Mr Arsenovic postponed the session to this day. Just because citizens know that the session is not interrupted because of the absence of MPs in the majority, but because MPs who were in the order of speakers were not present in the hall, there were perhaps two or three. For this reason, Mr Arsenović, quite justifiably, wanting to meet the opposition MPs, has postponed the session for today, and so has my esteemed previous colleague...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23459	Please return to the discussion, in accordance with Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23460	For the sake of the public, I have stated that the session has been postponed in favour of opposition MPs, not for some other reason. Also, it's said here that we shouldn't be forgiven for their mistakes either. This is where the previous speaker said that ratification goes according to an emergency procedure, according to some procedure. Now I ask - why these agreements and protocols have not been ratified, since they were signed on 27 May 2011 - two agreements and a protocol, an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Uruguay was signed on 20 September 2011. The agreements were signed by Mr. Ciric and Mr. Jeremic. If the previous speaker wanted to object to these agreements, he should have resented it to his executives during the former regime's rule. So, the agreements were signed by Vuk Jeremic, Mr Ciric, and if something was wrong in the suspicions, the agreement and the protocol was signed on 27 May 2011. So today's ruling set, today's government, had no role in protocols and agreements, had no effect on the Carpathian Forests Protocol, nor did it play any role in sustainable tourism in Karpatima. So, these agreements on shaming, as the previous speaker said, were signed by representatives of the list, representatives from the list on whose list he was elected. If there are any objections to protocols and agreements, he should refer them to his own electoral list and ask some of his colleagues what kind of mailing agreements you signed. Speaking of expertise and academic congratulation, I thought that the representatives of this organization were experts in the vine and not in the woods, but apparently that the diapazon of their interest had crossed from the vineyard, from the vine vine, that it had moved to the woods and I am afraid that some subsidisation for shaming, as they were shared on the Frustian mountain for reason, i.e. for planting the vine. Also, the previous speaker, when he touched these topics, had to talk a little bit about the wind and ask his electoral list -- how the swine fever, the classical plague of pigs that is already being prevented today, because of this phenomenon prevents our country from exporting pig meat to the EU, not only can we not export it, we can't even drive pig meat through EU territory, because classical swine fever has not been suppressed, or to explain to us how they did it in Surcin to their party friend, I think the Ecoorganician called the farm, as instead of destroying classical swine fever, has been crushed from several times, so a certain number of throats ended up in the market of those years from 2008 to 2012. Speaking of agreements with the Karpats, etc., we should have talked about small farms, they should have told us something, especially the speaker who spoke before me, should have told us the reasons why pumpkins were allowed to import into Serbia. I believe that except that they are experts in the wine line that they are very professional and for fur, so I don't understand why it is during the government of which the electoral list has been selected, why it was allowed to import pumpkins and to prohibit the production of furs, chinchillas, nerva and nutrients, why have they banned it, while allowing it to continue importing pumpkins uninterruptedly and ban domestic traffic and the production of fur in our territory? This put hundreds of farmers at risk who made significant incomes to this country and demoted other breeders to join this small farmers' investment business. These are the answers that he could provide us with the former regime, representatives of the election list which were selected in the last elections in 2014 together and instead of seeing for themselves, look at and read that the agreements and protocols that are now on the agenda and ratification have been signed by the representatives of the party on whose list you have been selected, they, I'm afraid, will not forgive us their own mistakes and find objections to the agreements they have signed, find mistakes and try to attribute to the government that did not sign those agreements. In my view, it is, in a way, unacceptable to me, given that my esteemed colleague, a previous speaker, is highly esteemed in academic clubs, academically honest, it is unacceptable for me to present the facts in this way and that the mistakes of a government are trying to put themselves in context and say that these are the mistakes of the current government. I think at least they owe us an explanation for some of the procedures that I've already stated here, so I believe that the citizens understood that they resented us and that their amendments cannot be found in these proposals. As far as I know about the agreements, and I've been an MP for seven or eight years, this kind of international agreements are not allowed to propose amendments, but our citizens need to know that someone very cleverly rhetorically tries to express in such a way that the mistakes that his party councils have made are attributed to another party, to another government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23461	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Biljana Hasanovic Korac, and let the MP Aleksandra Tomic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, under this item of the agenda, has been united to discuss two draft laws confirming the protocol and three draft laws confirming the agreement. I'm not going to name full names because it's been done several times since we've considered this agenda point. All five draft laws on the agenda are related to the area of environmental protection and are attached to the previous agenda of this session. Environmental protection is of great importance and therefore deserves commentary and analysis. I will keep my attention on the first two draft laws, on the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism under the Karpat Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management under the Karpat Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development. Both protocols are based on the Karpat Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, adopted in Kiev on 22 May 2003, covering seven countries: the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Ukraine and Serbia. Both protocols contain general objectives and principles to be implemented in the Karpat area, through the application of these protocols and which must be followed by signatories in the implementation of the protocol. Obligations of signatories to the protocol are systematised in chapters, general obligations and special measures. A few priorities have been set. As the first one, I would cite the development of this area and the development of sustainable tourism, as well as an increase in forest areas and forest quality. The second priority is the harmonisation of policies, which means that signatories are obliged to consider and use tools and methodologies applied at the international level for planning, development and tourism management, especially in vulnerable areas that are limited to cost-effective use. And, to harmonize national tools and planning frameworks as well as that signatories are obliged to exchange information between government institutions at all levels and among all stakeholders in the best practices achieved on these issues and in this area. The third important priority is the integration of objectives, preservation and sustainable use of the biological and landscape of Carpathian diversity in sectoral policies, as well as sustainable management and protection of the Carpathian forests. This implies that signatories undertake to take into account the objectives of these protocols when making their own policies, not only on spatial planning and land resource management, conservation of biodiversity and landscapes, water and river basin management of agriculture and forestry, transport and infrastructure, industry and energy. This could be of particular importance to us, especially to the development of the economy, and especially to the development of agriculture, because it represents a chance for our country, to defend against the pressure to introduce genetically modified products, to produce healthy food and fruit from nature, medicinal plants, honey and the like, then, to maintain healthy and unpolluted pastures that would produce pastures from which we could get healthy and organic milk and meat, with which we could cover both our market and apply for export. But, first of all, this should be implemented in order to come to this, and I will use the presence of you, dear minister, to ask the question, is it true what I have heard now that milkers are now buying 20% less milk and producers are spilling extra milk, because someone was interested in introducing milk powder and milkers have to, or are taking that milk because it's cheaper? I think that, especially when we start to apply these protocols, and otherwise, if we take care of our producers and the development of our economy, especially agriculture, this situation should not happen. Knowing how the ministries function, I would also like to ask you a question – are the ministries ready for mutual co-operation and coordination and do you have a plan to realise this co-operation and co-ordination between the ministries in all these areas that I just cited? Honestly, I think the realisation of the integrated goals will go pretty hard. The fourth priority is the participation of regional and local authorities of communities and other stakeholders. This implies that each signatories are obliged to include relevant regional and local authorities, as well as other stakeholders involved in policy preparation and implementation within their institutional framework. Do you have a plan to ensure that all of these factors are involved? Local authorities have a significant role to play in this. They have the opportunity to provide funds for the implementation of these protocols through border projects. I think that's why it is necessary to coordinate between local authorities and state authorities in order to ensure that protocols are implemented as best possible. These cross-border projects can draw significant funds from the EU. As for the participation of other stakeholders, I am very skeptical, knowing the relationship between the ministries and these governments towards public debates, public hearings, and especially towards the civil sector in which there are the most organisations dealing with the right to protect the environment. The fifth priority and fifth obligation is to promote the objectives and results provided for in this Protocol. Then, as the sixth task, education is also envisaged, both entities that will work on the implementation of the protocol and the entire population. It is necessary to start with education on the importance of protecting the environment, from kindergarten, through preschool and school age, students, through organisations and jobs where people work, through local communities, and of course through the media, as well as through holding a seminar of round tables and other types of direct contacts with citizens. The ruling majority now often criticises and even mocks the action "Let's Clean Serbia". If someone has also misused funds intended for this action, there are competent authorities who need to investigate it, and if there are culprits to punish them. But we can't argue that this action has produced good results. During the implementation of this action, work actions have been maintained that have been employed by both young people and schools and employees within their businesses where they work, to clear their environments and thus create habits to live in a clean and healthy environment. It's not by accident, and to me, it's not funny that they were set up and billboards on the streets, going videos on television and on electronic media, which were ads in written media, because they were constantly reminding citizens and it was visible on the street that when someone usually wants to throw a cigarette or paper, a bag of gum, from chocolate, so look at the billboard, or remember the video, look at the trash basket. Many wild dumps were cleaned up at the time, and they did not charge quickly enough. The canals were also cleaned, however, as the action stopped, and the awareness of the population began to fall back to the lower level and again was buried with all the wild dumps and created new and buried all the canals that contributed to the floods we had last year. Yesterday, in the morning program at "Study B", I was just watching a contribution to a wild dump on the Avalon road, next to an unfinished house. Many times the city’s cleanliness and other competent authorities have been cleaning and taking garbage from this wild dump, and it is again very quickly created and citizens living in the environment constantly appeal. This shows that it is necessary to work educationally and to increase citizens' awareness of the necessity of maintaining the environment and, above all, hygiene and cleanliness, and this will also help to implement these protocols. The Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and the U.S., supports the signing of ratification of these protocols, but we have real doubts and we are calling for everything to be done to be implemented and implemented, because by implementing these protocols not only by signing but by realising it, we would raise the standard in our country and draw closer to the countries of the EU and other developed countries in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23463	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23464	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for having felt the need to ask a few specific questions to the MP who had previously spoken and answered. You've raised more questions. We talked a lot about some yesterday. I agree with you that it would be a good idea to have the funds and the money as it used to be in the Fund again and to have such a good action, as you call it, a good action. You've had enough for education, but education obviously took a while. Anyway, I don't want to open up the hard questions again and the hard issues since yesterday, but we know exactly what could have been done if you'd left us something in the register. Nothing like this now, we have to look for new funds. On the other hand, I would, when it comes to the problem of importing milk, or milk powder. It's a question that gathers our attention and a question that has somehow been caused by you again. How? In 2008, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed, and I spoke about it yesterday, the deadlines were not well assessed when we will be ready to enter the competition with European farmers. When will our farmers be ready enough? Since they were scheduled, we now see short deadlines, there has been liberalisation in the trade in agricultural and food products, and that is one problem for us now. We also have an additional problem on the European market, globally on the European market, which is caused by political developments and the trade embargo between Russia and the EU. Since the EU has placed significant quantities of milk and milk products towards the Russian Federation and the Customs Union, now one part of that quantity is also coming to Serbia's market. It comes because we have weak protective measures, but that doesn't mean we're looking at it with peace and not doing everything that can be done at this point. Since October, we have already been discussing the inter-resort trade minister, the economy minister and myself, milk producers and milk processors, together with our professional services, how to absorb increased quantities of milk that could significantly threaten our and so sensitive sector, the dairy sector. Here, I can let you know what we've done and what we've done. First of all, we respect the agreement that was signed. We respect the provisions of the agreement and we know of one possibility in this agreement that in certain conditions we can also introduce safeguard measures, so we talked to the representatives of the European Commission and told them that an increased amount of certain dairy products on our market is now, among other things, the result and their high subsidisation of these products now that it has occurred at their level of disturbance, given that their products cannot now be placed, as they previously seemed. So they protected their production, but on the other hand they made a problem for us and we managed to arrange it with them, that we now in our own way, as we can now protect, to do so. In that sense, we agreed on protective measures, levies for certain types of cheese and butter, and for butter from packing to one kilogram. Now you'll probably ask why up to one kilo, why not the total amount, or larger packaging? Because we have to protect now and the conditioning industry, you know? The conditioning industry also has a problem. If it buys more expensive powdered milk than the EU connectors, then certainly their product will be more expensive, since the market for this type of product is now fully open. So now we're practically jeopardizing them. All of this I'm telling you to understand how complex the problems that we're facing right now are, how much we need with all the other problems, but not just problems, we have to go forward, how much we need to look for solutions and save what can be saved at this point. So we do as possible, I believe that we will succeed, and I believe that as much as possible what is not well planned, we will manage to protect, because I am quite sure that like you, like most of our citizens, that we must at all costs defend the food security of our population, our citizens, and that every responsible country protects that food security through domestic production. So much when it comes to milk and our citizens to make sure that we really are all we can and will do to save that sector and save it. The other issues you raised are these regional co-operation issues. We have indeed done a lot in the previous months, and in this international plan and especially in the region's co-operation plan, we are very concerned about this co-operation being at a high level, we recognise all these opportunities in terms of application for projects that encourage and use EU funds as much as possible. So you can be totally calm and carefree on that side, and believe that we know and recognize them, that we know and our colleagues from the region are also interested, so in this good mutual synergy, we're going to pull out the maximum again. I hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23465	Thank you, Madam Minister. (Blagoje Bradić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Blagoje Bradić according to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23466	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Here, for the second time in my MP's career, I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think Mr. Becic has been injured by article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly; when you did not warn the Minister, that he did not educate the Messengers of the people. I, as far as I know, all those who come in...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23467	Say again, I didn't hear what you said last?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23468	That he doesn't educate the Messengers of the people. So they're here in front of the government to defend the bill adopted by the National Assembly. It's ours based on their design, based on their arguments and arguments to accept or refuse. I appreciate your academic calling, I appreciate Mrs. Minister's academic calling, but it's all about agriculture, and for the rest, there's no such high academic knowledge. In my area, you are on the level of information from Vasa Pelagic, and I would ask Mr. Becic to continue speaking to the National Assembly, i.e. To us messengers, turn away from educating the Messengers of the people. One piece of information, you were supposed to give to the Minister, is created from January 1st to December 31st. There's no money left behind. So, the budget is not in the savings system, it is formed every year, the positions are predicted every year and what my colleague was saying, and you responded, i.e. The lady replied that there was no money left, that the government should anticipate in the budget for the current year, so there is no leftover money, it does not exist in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23469	Mr. Bradich, I'm asking you now, will the Assembly be able to come forward in the voting day? (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: There is no need. ) There is no need because you are aware that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and that you have used reporting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to Ms. Ministerial, so I have no other comment. Here's a word from Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23470	Just for a little while. Mr. Bradic, if you've listened well, I've been answering questions that have been asked directly by the People's Parliament. She asked these questions as part of her discussion on the laws on the agenda today. She talked about how important cross-border co-operation is, how important it is to have a good relationship with the environment, activities in terms of applying a protocol on cooperation in the veterinary field, etc. So I didn't go beyond the context of asked questions. I felt that when she asked me questions, and the questions were very life-threatening, as far as our viewers are concerned, it was my duty to answer them. I can't use this speech to politicians, and I can't use it for any other purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23471	Thank you, Madam Minister. I have just been commenting that Mr. Bradic has abused the Rules of Procedure, used it as a replica, has just answered the question and its conclusion that Mrs. Minister is trying to educate the MPs, not but Mrs. Minister is like a minister who in a constructive debate answered the questions asked by the previous speaker. Thank you. The word is Dr. Diana Vukomanović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23472	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I'm also joining your intervention, but simply, I answered the reflex immediately after my fellow MP's presentation and I call for Article 106, 102, in particular, which says that no one can warn a speaker or a participant in the search, paragraph 3, which is just the government's authorised representative, or minister. I really don't think it's right for us in this assembly to allow someone from the parliamentary bench to take office as chairman and to introduce order and decide who will educate and who will speak. I also stress that the MP also stressed that this is not only about the minister but also about the expert, or the professor, the doctor from the given area, and I really think that this is a space for a collegiate and civilized dialogue so that I would really ask that anyone from the parliamentary bench not be allowed to be disciplined by government representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23473	I thank you, Mrs. Vukomanovic. Just what I said, Madam Minister, is what is expected of the minister and of the proposed representative, to answer all the questions of MPs who MPs in their presentations of the constitution, but we will still not understand some of the representatives of the opposition. Sometimes they say why ministers do not answer questions, and on the other hand, when ministers answer, they say why they answer and try to educate MPs only to give answers to asked questions. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Dijana Vukomanovic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23474	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Boskovic, distinguished fellow MPs, apparently today in this debate on protocols, even very important agreements, perhaps some, Madam Minister, do not respond to the level of debate, or response, because it is much easier to speak to a ground floor dictionary in which, perhaps some words are not, as I say, acceptable, so it is interesting for the media. Yesterday, in a conversation with journalists, I was just discussing that these are important agreements today, although perhaps the topic is not so closely followed at all and eventually we get answers from certain journalists – today we have nothing to report from the Assembly. No, today we have very important things to do, which is that this Assembly is ratifying agreements with the help of which, here tomorrow, it will begin to solve many important things. Today we have a continuous rain that may cause a certain kind and level of flood. Yesterday, the Serbian government adopted a National Risk Management Plan from natural disasters with the help of the UN and the World Bank. So this shows the government's responsible approach, but also this Assembly that needs to ratify certain types of protocol based on the Carpathian Convention. First, it is located in the society of seven countries, which are Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Ukraine, meaning, in the heart of Europe, which covers around the Carpathian mountains, and protect, in the end, the region in terms of certain species and plants and animals and find ways to protect and be part of a group of countries that will protect, and thus establish certain conditions, that you will in some way promote sustainable tourism, promote forest reforestation in one country, raise, after all, certain economic activity is in any case a privilege. They don't have all the states. Romania has 40% of the territory of the Carpathian Mountains. One third of the territories practically affect these mountains, and of which two million people live in that part, there are 700 settlements, and we as parliamentarians have had opportunities in Romania to hear that this is of great importance to them, that these kinds of protocols and conventions really exist and that seven countries can do a lot of things together through this regional approach and co-operation. And what my predecessors said, if 6% of the forest is in the Republic of Serbia, and about 14% is in other EU-developed countries, it means that we have a big job in the forest. In doing so, certain financial resources are needed. It is much easier when you have protocols signed to withdraw funds from both the EU and countries in the region on joint projects and do the job, rather than just do it. We're simply on a path where we need to set goals that are certainly high, but we have to go that way. After all, what I would say about protocols themselves is that this protocol isn't just about the environment. It includes even sustainable development. So, for all of this, it also involves the sustainable economic use of all resources, but it also involves the part relating to both industry and energy, but it also involves cultural heritage, but it involves both maintaining and preserving traditional knowledge, but also the part relating to education and public participation. There is certainly a great importance of the NGO sector, namely civil society, and this as an important area in the heart of Europe is one of the instruments of helping sustainable development. Therefore, Serbia is of great importance in all what is under the patronage of this Convention and what is found in the association of these seven countries that will really have a way to deal with all the challenges in the future, especially when climate change is under way, and we will also be witnessing these days as the Serbians face all these challenges. Therefore, the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism under the Convention relating to the Carpathian Convention and the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management must certainly be adopted and certainly as much as possible in public talk about it and the importance of such conventions because I do not think that the society understands at all the importance not only of environmental issues but of sustainable development at all. Somewhere it all comes down to some budget and some money. Yesterday, the prime minister explained it nicely. The prevention of a single dinar involves seven dinars of solving the consequences. So it's better to stop than to heal. If this applies to human health, it should also apply to the sustainable development of our economy and our economy and our business activities in general. What must be said for sure is that the Minister of State is certainly in the veterinary field more professional and therefore the answers we have received really show the degree of problems Serbia faces and simply the manner in which the ministry solves many problems which are also in the veterinary field today all witnesses, and we are here to help. As MPs, we can help if we really support such agreements between the Republic of Uruguay and what concerns the protection of plant quarantine and plant protection. You know, when you have a certain type of disease when it comes to plants, then you also have animal nutrition disorders, and that's why you get into people's health problems, because it's a diet. As you can see, that's one problem that's not isolated at all. So all segments in society one multidisciplinary approach in this problem solving is needed. I wanted to ask one question, and I don't know if it's able to give that answer now, but when we talk about rural development, in general the third component and the IPARD programme, we have this rural tourism and now we have the initiative of the European Parliament and the Union in general to develop this sustainable tourism that is related to the environment. Rural tourism is more connected to the so-called rural tourism. tourism, i.e. for rural development at all, and I can say that it is also related to women's entrepreneurship, because somewhere in the country, women are farmers who carry that job somewhere. I wanted to ask if there is any co-operation with the Ministry of Tourism, Mr. Rasim Ljajic, and is there a certain need for education to be done by people before they apply for IPARD funds, because somewhere in the first and second components of the agricultural production itself will be given priority? It seems to me that this rural tourism, of course, in line with sustainable tourism and in general with tourism as an important economic branch in Serbia, I think that the need for this intersectoral co-operation to be stronger and better, and in some ways to come out with that education in front of agricultural producers, or women entrepreneurs who would be engaged in rural tourism, and somewhere to prepare ourselves as a state until competitions are exchanged, until we are able to withdraw funds from the European budget on the IPARD programme, because it is exactly in line with this protocol when we talk about sustainable tourism. We were usually guests in Zagreb at a European conference concerning sustainable tourism, which was attended by 22 countries. The European Union is really interested that when it comes to sustainable tourism, much greater importance is given. Serbia is a member and indeed one of the important states that participates in many projects related to sustainable tourism and many resources when it comes to Balkan spas, for example, taking part in a long period of years, then when it comes to the roads of Roman emperors, but I am interested in this part of rural tourism whether we are able to really co-operate with the Ministry of Tourism, since our Committee which I chair includes and the work of the Ministry of Tourism, to somehow make this stronger co-operation to make it easier for agricultural producers in Serbia to deal with this job. I'm sure in voting day we'll support these protocols and SNS and all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23475	Thank you. The word is from Ms. Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23476	Thank you. I thank Parliamentarian Tomic for such a fine question. I am pleased to respond in this time at my disposal. I'll give you a quick answer. The IPARD program was adopted, as you know. In the coming period, we will promote it in the coming months throughout Serbia. It will help us both scientific and professional organisations of our agriculture, professional, advisory services, civil society organisations and all citizens who are interested in helping us show this programme and prepare as best as possible for our farmers and all those interested in the use of funds from this programme to be prepared when the first calls are made. I expect the first calls will be at the beginning of next year. In fact, the IPARD programme defines support in all sectors of agriculture and defines the support that you now mention and potential as extremely important. When we prepared it, we ourselves had in mind the importance of the development of rural tourism and the importance of the development of rural tourism in the country from the aspect of agricultural production itself and it was one of the areas that the IPARD programme recognises and supports. In particular, rural tourism is supported in those areas that are today defined as marginal areas, i.e. areas with difficult working conditions. There will be a return of funds in this area up to 70%. So, apart from primary production, other than processing capacity, and rural tourism development is one of our objectives that we want to help with the IPARD programme and which is as such presented and positively assessed by the European Commission. Many of these days are asking why we're waiting, why doesn't it start right now? We are now not to wait, we will now work intensively, that as much as possible, we will shorten this period for the establishment of the operational structure, i.e. to provide administrative capacity for the presentation of the IPARD programme and for the preparation of agricultural professional advisory services that will play a special role in direct contact with agricultural producers to give them what they can compete for, to help them prepare their documentation for the competition and to apply in time, i.e. to fulfill all these procedures to ensure that this process is safe. Among other things, we needed this time and because we had to make some mistakes in the past to correct it. The Agrarian Payments Administration in Šapec, it was not easy and it was not easy to find an adequate location and execute the migration of the administration. And that's what we managed to do. We are now working on strengthening administrative capacity and on presentation and preparation. We'll work as fast as possible and expect to finally be able to use these funds as early as possible next year. So, as well as you, the honourable MPs, who are always active and who always support all the issues that concern not only the environment, but also the issues in the area of agriculture, as well as all the other MPs, we will have in March 25th a large presentation of the IPARD programme, and, of course, we will have all over Serbia, and in smaller and larger places, and we will be extremely pleased to introduce you to all these details, so that you will also help us to make these resources available to us, and are already available to us, and we will make the most of it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23477	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23478	The Honored Chairman, Mr Bečić, the Honored Minister, Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as our National MP Marjana Maras has already announced, I will talk about the protocols, that is, the proposals of the law on the validation of two protocols, sustainable tourism with the Framework Convention and the sustainable development of Karpat and, secondly, the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat. The Karpathian mountain system covers, as is known, seven countries, including Serbia. There are Romania, Ukraine, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary. Here, when we talk about such a relationship, where several countries are involved, these international and interstate relations are certainly important and that the realisation of certain programmes depends not on one or several countries, but depends on the concerted relationship and functioning of all the countries covered by one agreement. It says that environmental issues and problems have no limit. They're not local character. They are global and involve the participation of everyone living on this planet or in one region, if the issue is a rope that is being considered. The Carpathian region is the most important forest complex in Europe, which includes the largest remaining forests and natural forests outside Russia. It can be said that the Karpathian forest region is the largest forest treasure in Europe. The main problem is, but it is not only in the Karpathian region, an illegal cutting, which is present drastically in some countries, for example, in Romania, although we have the same problem. We can rhetorically now build our own discussion or our speech towards criticizing something, but I will say that the EU is actually dealing with this problem and it seeks to cut the forest through laws even better and better quality regulation, because there are such problems everywhere. It is also a global problem in one negative sense, which is present. We have a fact that, for example, From 1950 to today, more than half of the planet's forest has been destroyed. It's one catastrophic piece of information, but it's real, it's like that. We have to face it. Two-thirds of the Latin American forest was also destroyed, one half of African. There's an even more drastic situation in Asia. In the U.S., the exploitation of the forest was rapid, hasty, ruthless, and has existed for a long time. In the last 200 years, it's been a really hard thing to do. When said for 200 years, it's a small period compared to what nature and this living world has produced, evolved for billions of years, and then practically in a relatively short time half of it or more than half of it is destroyed. The consequences of deforestation are really great. First of all, in the composition of the atmosphere, it increases the amount of carbon dioxide, and it disrupts what is the effect of the glass garden, or ozone layer. The destruction of forests reduces the amount of oxygen, the most important resource for living life, the resulting erosion, floods, climate change, and biodiversity change in the living world, which is the greatest sin that can be committed to living nature. In the context of this, I would like to mention something that impresses humanity, which is an example of the reaction of the chief of the American Indians. It's about Chief Seattle, who sent a letter or addressed the American president, Mr. Franklin Pierce, in response to the US president's offer to house some 8,000 km2 of the Indian tribe, led by Seattle for about $150,000. Those were the prices, the relationship or the value, so to speak, at the time. You won't mind me saying some parts of his address here, because it's really educational, and it's important that we go back to the sphere of thought, not just us, but the whole public about what today is a global problem of environmental protection, as the most important conditions for the survival and progress of humanity. Thus, the chief says in his address: “How can one buy or sell the sky, the warmth of the earth. That thought is our side. We don't own fresh air or clear water. All this land of the world is for my people. “ Next, he says: “If we sell you our land, you must know that the rivers are our sisters, but they are also yours. You must teach your children, as we do ours, that the land is our mother. Whatever she finds, she'll find her children. If a man spits on the ground, he spits on himself. We know that the earth does not belong to man, the man belongs to the earth, which will say that nature does not belong to man, but man belongs to nature and is part of it. If we sell our land, then you love it the way we loved it. You're protecting her, just like we were protecting her. Never forget what condition she was when you took her over. That's the most important message. With all your strength, your power, and your heart, save it for your children and love it as God loves all of us. One day you will know that your God and our God are the same. “ In the end, almost desperately, the chief asks certain questions, but with the intention of selling the country to the President of the United States, because if he did not sell it, there would be no peace, there would be destruction of his people, and with his head he could not go through the wall. Desperately, he notes: “I don’t understand why the buffalo is being killed, why the wild horses are being tamed, why is there so much human smell in the forest, why is the view of the green banks torn apart by the wires they say, where the deer are, where they are no more, where the eagle flew away? The real life has come to an end, the struggle for survival begins. “ So this last thought — it begins to fight for survival, not in the sense that Darwin was building his theory — a struggle to survive living beings, as a mechanism for natural selection and for further evolution. This is about a man coming out or his hunch coming out of what is a framework of nature, disrupting what is a biological balance and endangering that living nature, and thus endangering itself. When it comes to the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism, along with the Framework Conventions for Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, the Parties here will take measures to promote sustainable tourism in Karpat, providing well-being to local people based on exceptional nature, landscapes and the cultural heritage of Karpat, and to that end will strengthen co-operation. Otherwise, eco tourism is a new form of one of the world's largest and most advanced economic performances. It was started in the late 1980s as an attempt to reduce the negative impact of traditional tourism on the environment, which is to deplete natural resources, pollution and change of the eco system. The international tourism organisation defines eco tourism as a responsible journey through natural goods that does not disrupt the environment and provides well-being to the local population. It is also important here that the educational component which implies that all users of such a single service are interested in the question of a healthy environment and that, by using and consummating such a need, they participate in improving and preserving the environment. In 2002, it was a turning point in the development of this new type of tourism, and the UN declared it a year of eco tourism. So if in a single comprehensive, comprehensive way we are considering all these environmental issues, then we see that all of humanity is somewhere in five minutes or even a minute to 12, that all the bells should ring and that all of us together on a global level have to deal with this issue in the best possible way. These issues and these problems are priorities ahead of all priorities, because solving such a single priority is a basic condition for the survival of the future healthy life of our children and future generations. Of course, considering in this context, we will be happy to continue to take part in this problem, and when the voting day comes, the SPS parliamentary group will certainly vote to adopt these laws on the validation of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23479	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23480	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministry colleagues, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, today we are discussing several different agreements. I think each of them is very important in their area. When it comes to the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism with the Framework Convention on the Protection of Sustainable Development of Karpat, the main objective of this Protocol is to achieve a very ambitious task, which is on the one hand to develop tourism in the right sense of that word, but with full respect for all environmental principles. It means they don't suffer any negative consequences, no locals, no nature. As I have already said, it is a very ambitious task, but not invaluable and to achieve it requires one regional co-operation. It is precisely this regional co-operation and co-ordinated work of all countries belonging to the Karpathic system that is necessary and necessary in order to make everything provided for in this Protocol truly practical. What is foreseen is that all foreign signatories exchange knowledge and experiences, how to improve the tourist offer. Also, something that is very important is how to provide conditions for work and out of season, something that is very important. Benefits from sustainable tourism are indeed numerous and significant. It is something that Europe has recognized for a long time, and I am very glad that our resolution ministry recognized this need and recognised this huge potential and recognized that it is very cost-effective and useful to invest in the same for a number of reasons. This tourism helps, on the one hand, to enjoy some untouched beauty of nature with a tendency to keep the same and the other, allowing life in those areas. It enables life in these areas by allowing locals to live and work and can earn, in different creative ways, where education is needed again, and by having different offers to whom to offer, because there are people who are, and how willing to pay for organic products, for organic food, because it really is something that will not have a price in the future. So, on the one hand, poverty is reduced, migration is reduced from places like this, which is very important. So once again, I am very pleased that the Resort Ministry has seen the need to continuously invest and improve this area, and this protocol is exactly one of these ways. Also, the related protocol is the Sustainable Forest Management Protocol, with the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development. Again, as I said before, it's about regional co-operation. So, there's an accent everywhere on regional co-operation because one state if it works in that direction doesn't mean anything, unless, right now, it needs this joint work and that coordinated work. Here, in this case, when it comes to the forest's preventive action and preservation of the Carpathian forest. Once again, I would like to emphasise the importance of preventive action. I'm not going to say that, so I'm not going to say it because my colleagues have already talked about it, and I think it's more than clear why it takes maximum protection of the forest, but it's a very important preventive action, because when it comes to the damage done then it's too late and it's a lot more effort to make. Then there are two agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic Republic of Algeria in the area of animal health and agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on co-operation in the veterinary field. These agreements will significantly improve veterinaryism in our country. Again, signatories will be able to exchange knowledge, experience, as well as the latest scientific achievements that are constantly growing and greater. So they'll be able to warn themselves and act preventively on many infectious diseases, when it comes to animals, so it's always about finding new drugs, just like for people, anyway. So it will greatly improve veterinaryism in our country, and thus improve export opportunities, which is very important, the placement of our products on the foreign market, which is, of course, more than a lucrative job. Then, the last agreement we are discussing today is between the Republic of Serbia and Ukraine on co-operation in the area of plant quarantine and plant protection. This agreement allows one legal framework for the two countries to make money for each other in this area. I think it's very good that it will also facilitate the placement of our products on the Ukrainian market, which is very good. Thus, it will encourage many, meaning that they are beginning to do this work, many have already discovered, practically, that this can be and how lucrative work, many families live from production, for example, medicinal herbs. So these and similar agreements certainly seem encouraging to these people, because as soon as there is a market, as soon as some new opportunities open up, of course there will be people who will always be interested in working in the area. At the very end, what I would add is that all these protocols, agreements very useful for our country, is always good to have as many such agreements as possible, the economic co-operation of all signatories countries is improving. It is known that nothing brings people closer than the economy, as my respected colleague has already pointed out, it is very good that we have such protocols, such agreements to have access to EU funds, it is also something that is very good and useful and I hope that we will use it in the best possible way. All these are the reasons why all these agreements should definitely be supported in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23481	The word has a folk emissary of the Jellysavet the Beacon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23482	The Honored Chairman, the Honored Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable People's MPs, is before us today a set of draft laws on Karpat, and it concerns the validation of the Protocol on Sustainable Tourism and Sustainable Forest Management, along with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, which was signed by seven countries, a member of the Carpathian Mountain Chain, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia, Ukraine and Serbia. We know that Carpathy represents a very important reservoir of biological diversity, one of the largest eco-systems, which makes them particularly important. They represent a haven for many endangered mountain species, but also the last habitat for some large mammals. The aim of confirming such protocols is, above all, to promote sustainable management and protection of karpathic forests, through improvement and activities particularly to preserve and increase areas under forests, to promote rational use of forests as ecological and renewable material, to improve the role of the forestry sector in easing climate change. What is very important is the improvement of the protection function of the forest, such as the prevention of floods, soil erosion, rinks, because we know that they in themselves improve stability and resistance to natural disorders. Taking into account the high value of forests for tourism development, it is clear that this can also be done by promoting the Carpathian region as a sustainable tourist destination, which can present a chance for the economic development of less developed areas and a significant potential for improving the social, cultural and economic development of local economies. The objectives of the protection of conservation and sustainable management of Karpat's resources can only be achieved in the co-operation of all countries signatories of the protocol, each of which must develop and implement policy on its national territory in order to manage the karpat forest sustainablely. As regards the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Eastern Republic of Uruguay on Co-operation in the Veteran Area and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Algeria in the area of animal health, it is important to point out that they deal with issues relating above all to the legal framework of co-operation in the areas of exports, imports and transport, i.e. the transport of life and products of animal origin, respecting all veterinary sanitary measures. The exchange of reports on the occurrence, condition and movement of infectious diseases in animals is thus carried out, taking measures to prevent the same, suppressing, eradication of infectious diseases in animals, notification in case the consignment does not satisfy veterinary sanitary conditions, as well as the resolution of issues in question. In this way, conditions are also created for facilitating transport and increasing the volume of exchanges and agricultural and food products, products of animal origin, which contribute to improving the economic relations of these countries. The reason for the adoption of a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Co-operation in Plant Quarantine and Plant Protection is also the establishment of a legal framework for the co-operation of the two countries in this area, which provides for the taking of measures by Contracting Parties to prevent the entry of harmful organisms from one another territory, the exchange of information on the emergence and spread of harmful organisms and quarantine harmful organisms, the exchange of experts in order to carry out occasional phytosanitary checks on plant, plant products, as well as facilities at places of production, planting and storage. In this way, conditions are also created for the education of experts, information is exchanged, experience from scientific and professional achievements in the area. What I would especially like to note, and to praise the Resort Ministry, is that it has given itself and set itself very high standards in the field of not only the protection of plants and animal health but also very high standards in the field of environmental protection. Once again, all praises for the work of your ministry and in the voting day of the SNS will be supported by all these draft laws, protocols and agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23483	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23484	Dear Chairman, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to try to make a small contribution to today's work. Much has already been said in favour of accepting these protocols and agreements. By adopting the Bill on Confirmation of the Sustainable Tourism Protocol with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, Karpat has great importance for further development of tourism, both indirectly and throughout the economy, and this will also affect improving Serbia's economic status. At the moment when serious and difficult reforms are carried out, which should bring us a better, both for us and for future generations, our duty and obligation is now to use our security work every chance to improve. International, mutual co-operation of seven Karpathian countries opens up the possibility of co-operation in the field of tourism, and what does that mean? This means the development of local communities, the construction of infrastructure, the development of agriculture, the construction of accommodation facilities, the promotion of old crafts and crafts, the transport of agricultural products and the provision of tourism services. The above facts conclude that the possibility of reducing unemployment and rural development is created, especially in mountain areas. By adopting laws, sub-legislative acts, protocols and agreements both within the country and between countries in the nearby environment, as well as overseas countries, we want to protect ecosystems, agriculture and ourselves. Namely, the originators of plant and animal diseases, which are bacteria, viruses, rickets, parasites, insects, as well as polluted air, do not know the political or state limits. It must be on our mind all the time. This requires constant professional cooperation and education with other countries on all issues, especially in the area of health, both human, animal and plant. By signing, agreement, protocol and agreement with other countries, we are trying to reduce as little as possible to plant and animal diseases with a tendency to exchange professional experiences and root them out. This is of course offered by agreements between our country of Serbia, Uruguay and Algeria in the area of veterinary and animal health. I, as a veterinarian, support all protocols and agreements, especially related to the export, import and transport of foodstuffs and products of animal origin. These protocols and agreements give us a greater development opportunity in both the tourism and agriculture areas, i.e. in livestock, because we already have a good predisposition for that. These are still unpolluted natural resources for the production of healthy food, experienced and valuable farmers, known and recognised experts. In Voting Day, I would call on all the mind and wisdom of this home, and there are, regardless of political orientation, to support all these bill proposals and agreements discussed these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23485	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23486	Thank you. Chairman, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, respected Serbian citizens, distinguished fellow MPs, I am Milija Miletic. I come from the most beautiful municipality of Srlig and I will talk about veterinaryism, about these two agreements with Uruguay and Algeria, but I will also touch this for tourism, these tourism protocols concerning the Karpat masse, where seven countries are signatories of this protocol. I think tourism is a great opportunity for us, and our country Serbia needs to participate in all these things and always sign and co-operate with those countries where it can promote our environment, quality agriculture and agricultural production, which is said to have fallen quite a bit in the past, but saved our country from Serbia. As far as this Agreement is concerned between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Uruguay, the veterinary agreement, this part will be the most reflected in the turnover of livestock, animal trafficking, monitoring of regulations, monitoring of goods, and all that is important to us. Uruguay is recognizable by Montevide where we were once champions of the world and I can say, surely I can say that Serbia can be the champion of the world and agriculture, in quality food. For example, I come from the Srlig municipality that can compete and be the best in Serbia and in the world as far as charm is concerned. It's the highest quality of the garland lamb, the grizzly cheese, the shrewd whitefish, the haystack cheese. We can be champions here, and that's why I support this agreement normally. We can be champions in pigmaking. We have very high-quality pigs, but we have a little bit of a problem, and I hope that the D.A. will be able to solve this problem with our people who have a problem with pork, which is happening in Machva where it's really a very difficult situation. As far as this Veterinary Agreement is concerned, I'm sure it will contribute to the quality of our animals, our cattle and our meat being much better, to better control. I know it is necessary to provide a number of field veterinarians, veterinary inspectors, who must be more present on the ground. I'm sure this government of ours, headed by our prime minister and the competent ministry, is already monitoring enough the problem with the current swine flu, with the current bird flu of the so-called. The aviary infloenze in Bulgaria, the bird flu H5N1, and in Hungary, it mutated where H5N8 is, and I'm sure our Veterans Authority is already following it. It is forbidden to import meat from Bulgaria, and it will be, I'm sure, from both Hungary and the surrounding countries, but I think it is necessary because of these diseases to protect our production, our pigs, to ban imports and live pigs from all the surrounding countries so that we can save our agricultural producers who are engaged in pig farming, who are engaged in dairy, because we just heard from our minister that certain steps have already been launched. But I'm sure it can be even better, and I think that in the next period, the competent ministry together with the Department of Commerce should be able to initiate a procedure to immediately buy these pigs that now have over 60 grand in the Sword and the environment. On the other hand, what I just said about these diseases, to ban the import of animal meat and pig meat and other products from them. As a national MP, a man who fully supports this government and represents the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Parliament, elected on the Serbian Progressive Party list, I am sure that the competent ministry will be able to address these problems in our agriculture. On the other hand, I would once again call on the competent ministry to help our agriculture in some way, because we are coming to IPAR projects, to IPAR funds, but we must previously help small landowners survive to live and be competitive. I will vote in the voting day for all these laws now proposed by the government and I am sure that this government of ours will succeed in all these problems that are there to solve and that our agricultural producers will be people who will be much more appreciated than they have ever been. Once again, as a representative of the United Peasants' Party, I will vote for a set of all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23487	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić, and let the MP Mladen Lukic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23488	The esteemed chairman, distinguished co-workers of the Ministry of Agriculture, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as far as the Serbian Progressive Party is concerned, has no doubt that it will support all the protocols and agreements that our country needs to sign and which, of course, should be realised. In my speech, I will focus on two protocols, and it concerns the sustainable development of the Carpathian region. Otherwise, the Protocol on a Sustainable Sustainable Development Agreement of the Carpathian region was signed to Kiev on 22 May 2003. I will rely on the Protocol on sustainable development of forests and the Protocol on Sustainable Development of Tourism, first of all, which in some way I estimate that it is a normal trail of perhaps yesterday's and yesterday's debate here in the Assembly, which, for the purposes and purpose of protecting the human environment and protecting human health. First, I will refer to the Sustainable Forest Development Protocol, first of all for the reasons that forests and how they have great importance for the conservation of the environment. We know that in the process of photosynthesis the forest releases oxygen into the air and, according to some estimates, four trees of noise forests in a 100-year time period can produce the oxygen needed for man's life, for an age of 80 years for man. Also, I would like to stress that the high forests on the surface of a hectare annually produce about 800 tons of oxygen. Forests are also of great importance to prevent erosion, to prevent gliding, to prevent floods, and it is known that those sloping areas that are located under the forests, which have grown in the forest, that their water supply is lower by 30% to 50% than those areas that have not grown in the forest. Therefore, it is directly concerned with the protective function of the forest when it comes to floods, soil erosions, slides and other weather disasters. Of course, forests also have a major impact on global warming and global climate change, primarily because forests absorb in large amounts of carbon. Climate change and forests are essential and directly linked. What I particularly want to stress about the Carpathian region in the territory of the Republic of Serbia is that the forests and mountains in the region, including the Homolian Mountains and the Kuchatska Mountains and the Old Mountains, forests with an extremely preserved plant and animal world, are, of course, the goal of this protocol is to sustain the biodiversity and sustainability of this plant and animal world. I must also point out that in the Kucati Mountains there is the only forest in the Republic of Serbia and in this part of Europe, which is Vinatovačka pršuma, whose most frequent visitors are students of the Faculty of Forests. I must stress that in this forest there are beech trees of forests that are over 350 years old, that these trees are otherwise tall and up to 40 years old and that they represent a real natural reservoir of intact nature. Also, I want to highlight the enormous hydrological wealth of this part of Serbia, such as The source of Mlava, or the hot Mlava, which is known to be crystal clear about clean because transparency on the heat of Mlava is approximately four metres. According to some of my information, it's also the deepest heat in Europe. I would like to point out that in this area there is also a Homo-Secret, a specific river, that springs, flows, then drains, and after a while it goes away again. By the way, the Homolic secretion springs in a pyramid between three trees, including beech, oak, and prey. So, as far as the forest wealth of this area is concerned, it is indeed one of the most preserved and diverse. By signing this Protocol, the State is bound to work to preserve biodiversity by its strategy, its plans and its programmes, because this area also has forests that belong to the so-called forest. the category of untouched forests, i.e. intact nature. What I particularly want to stress is that by signing this protocol, the state will agree that and how it takes legislative measures on the illegal cutting and destruction of forests through illegal cutting, as well as to take all measures in the legal protection of illegal trade in such cut-off trees. Of course, except for the preservation of indigenous varieties, I must stress that this protocol obliges the state, and I find it very important, to establish a unique information system regarding protection, namely a unique information system concerning some kind of inventory of forest goods that exists in this Carpathian area. It is also very important and very important interregional co-operation, interstate co-operation between our country and other neighbouring countries. Tourism and sustainable tourism, above all, recognises the signing of this protocol as very important from the social economic aspect, i.e. from the aspect of improving the economy and improving development, especially rural areas in this part of Serbia. Rural tourism is something that should represent our future, i.e. the future in this part of tourism, and I must especially stress the high participation and high percentage of women in rural tourism. Also, I want to point out that these rural environments are almost the best keepers of our cultural tradition. Thus, sustainable tourism, of course, implies both maintenance and maintenance, namely the transfer of tradition, the transfer of culture, the transfer of customs to certain parts, and we know that these countries and regional co-operation of these countries and the local population are, in fact, their cultural heritage and that they are very close. I would also like to point out, in the tourism section, that countries have committed themselves to establishing standards concerning the use of services in tourism, and these standards refer to accommodation capacities, refer to the assessment of the satisfaction of users provided services, etc. I believe that both protocols are of invaluable importance for the maintenance of the plant, animal world and for the development of sustainable tourism. I've already said we'll support all the agreements in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23489	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf the students of the First Belgrade High School who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. Please welcome the guests. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23490	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dear Ministerial, with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the context of today's presentation, I will refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management, under the Karpat Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In May 2003 in Kiev, at the pan-European Ministerial Ecological Conference, respecting the fact that the Karpat area is one of the special values in the heart of Europe, not only the treasures of the largest area of untouched forests, the richness of nature, the beauty of landscapes, and therefore the ecological values, was adopted by all present delegations, including our presence, the Carpathian Convention. It is a follow-up and an elaborated long ago adopted in 1991 by a strategic document called the so-called "Strategic Paper". Dobris deal, i.e. European Pan-European Initiatives "The Life Environment for Europe", initiated by then Czechoslovakia Minister of Ecology Mr Varvusek, preparing the basis for the sustainable and uniform development of the entire continent, the ecological but also socio-economically mutually-conditional space. After successfully initiated and implemented the Convention on the Protection of the Alps, the Carpathian Convention, seen as a continuation and successful replicability of European countries' co-operation, which share so significant two European mountain ranges, which are, in addition to the wealth of biodiversity, significant and in the context of the global initiative to protect mountainous areas and water resources, as one of the most endangered of today's development-existent resources of humanity. This area, apart from the ecological region, is also a very important economic, cultural and potentially recreational space shared by several major European countries and their peoples, with particularly diverse and rich cultural traditions, but also significant traditional ways of life. As such, this area represents a huge potential for interregional co-operation, especially since it is located as a bridge on the edges of today's enlarged Europe, and in a functional sense, in the future of the necessary organic, ecological and economic-cultural ties to the continent. At the same time, this area is the source of several large rivers of medium and central European flow, and, as such, directly affects the implementation of another major pan-European strategy related to the Declaration on the Environment and Sustainable Development of Karpat and the Danube Basin, adopted in Bucharest in 2001. This Convention, in addition to the aforementioned support of the European Union and possible co-operation with the Alpine countries, shall be defined in its basic objectives and strategic management and protection measures for the implementation of the principles of prudence and protection, in principle - pay contaminant, public participation and inclusion of so on. the holder's glass, cross-border co-operation, integrated with the management of territory, land and water resources, for the principles of programme initiatives and protocols, the principles of ecosystem approach. Additional support has been provided through the establishment of the Carpathian Convention Secretariat in Vienna, with which our country, through the UNEP, has exceptional co-operation. The decision by seven Signatory countries of the Carpathian Convention will contribute through the Forest Protocol to protect Europe's most valuable forest complex, which includes the largest remaining forests and forests outside Russia. Thus, the governments of the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia and Ukraine signed the Protocol on Sustainable Forest Management of the Carpathian Convention on 27 May 2011 at the Third Conference of the signatories of the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development – the Carpathian Convention. The Protocol aims at sustainable management and protection of karpathic forests, as well as identification and protection of natural forests, especially those intact. The protocol also aims to maintain or increase the area under forests, as well as improve the protection functions of forests, such as flood prevention, ice-skating and even water-flow regulation. In the international year of the forest, the governments of seven Karpathian states have committed to protect and preserve Europe's largest forest treasure, including the largest remaining areas of natural and intact forests on the continent outside Russia, which require urgent protection. There are believed to be some 300,000 hectares of old or forest complexes in the Carpathian mountains, including over 10,000 hectares of magnificent forests run away in eastern Slovakia and western Ukraine, which are included in the UNESCO World Heritage List, as well as areas in southern Carpathia, Romania, which make up the European largest integrated forest area. Unfortunately, many of these areas are collapsing and the woods are cutting down. Only 18% of the 250,000 hectares of Romanian old forests are within protected areas. In Slovakia, only 0.47% of forests can be considered old forests, according to a basic field study conducted during 2010. Before conducting the study, it was thought that at least 2% of forest terrain could be considered old forests. For Serbia there are still no precise data on the area of the old forests, i.e. The forest. The complexes of old forests are complex systems that provide numerous benefits to people, and this includes important services such as regulation of local climate, water and land management, as well as carbon deposits. The Protocol on the forests of the Carpathian Convention combines a large number of legal mechanisms and political obligations, including new European Union legislation on illegal cutting, as well as the European Union's habitat and bird directives, to take account of the loss of that forest treasure. It is essential that these obligations are applied now and in practice. A strategy for the development of forestry in the Republic of Serbia is one of the important objectives of preserving and improving biodiversity in forest areas. Serbia is a country with rich biodiversity, especially in forest ecosystems and the concept of sustainable development of the forest sector and sustainable forest management contributes to the preservation of our country's natural resources. The new EU legislation, which deals with the problem of illegal cutting, requires EU member states to take specific measures to deal with the problem of illegal cutting, which is the main problem in the Carpathian region. One tool for online monitoring of wood construction, designed by the Romanian Forest Agency "Romania", can support the implementation of the EU Forests and Law Protocol and provides a good example for other countries. Romania was also among pioneers in the Karpata region, promoting responsible forest management, with some two million hectares of forests awaiting certification of the Forest Care Council. This law that we are talking about today confirms the protocol on sustainable forest management with the Framework Convention and the protection of sustainable development of Karpat is of paramount importance for our country. Sustainable tourism is based on sustainability criteria, which means it has to be long-term, environmentally tolerated, economically sustainable and ethically and socially fair compared to local communities. The parties undertake to take measures to promote sustainable development in the Karpat area, thus benefiting the local population and, on the basis of the exceptional nature, landscape and cultural heritage of Karpat, and to cooperate more intensively to achieve these objectives. The Carpathian Convention accepts natural and cultural heritage in Karpatima, including areas of the basic characteristics of tourism. In fact, the aesthetic value of mountain areas plays a huge role in their attractiveness for tourists, and exceptional karpathic resources undoubtedly provide opportunities for tourism to develop. The parties undertake to lead a policy aimed at promoting cross-border co-operation in order to enable sustainable tourism to develop such co-ordinated or joint management plans for cross-border or border-protected areas and other locations of tourist importance. This law that we are talking about today also confirms the protocol on sustainable tourism under the Karpat Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development and is of paramount importance for our country. In voter day, the SNS will vote for the proposed legislative solutions. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23491	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary group or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? If not, I'm concluding a joint single search. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the proposals referred to in points 9, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the Parliament group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 92(3) but with Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: the summary list of candidates for the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education, with an amendment of 26 January 2015, the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the JS, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of DS and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the National Assembly of the NS. Do the proposing representatives, MPs Zoran Babic, Petar Petrovic, Vesna Martinovic and Miroslav Markicevic want a word? (No) Does the committee's rapporteur want a word? (No) Just one question for colleague Jerkov, do you want to be authorized or representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23492	I thank Mr Arsic, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society. We delivered to the National Assembly on 26 January 2015, a report with an amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is a summary list of candidates for members of the National High Education Council, which expired on December 29th last year. It is a list sent to the Committee by authorised representatives of the proposings, namely the Conference of the University of Serbia, whose lists are selected by 12 members, the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, whose lists are selected by two members, a list of six members and a list of the competent authorities of the AP Vojvodina, the Regional Secretariat for Education, whose lists are selected by one member. What the Committee has done is it has found that all the proposings have been authorised, that they have all proposed the required number of members, and together we have sent a letter to all authorised applicants, except the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I, as chairman of the Committee, signed with a request to take advantage of their legal opportunity and to propose more candidates than it is elected, that indeed the Assembly in this case would not be reduced to the body that confirms the lists proposed, but rather that we would have an election role in this process which we all in the Committee considered to be extremely important. In the list submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on January 5th, a mistake was substantiated and after the Committee established this summary list, the government found that one of the proposed candidates, or candidate Branislav Belic, was in conflict of interest, given that the Vice-President of the Vojvodina Assembly, and proposed Professor Milan Jovanovic instead. So now there is actually a summary list of amendments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had in front of the MPs. What was the general grudge of the scientific community was when it came to this summary list, and we got it with a few urens, is that it expired its mandate to the members of the Committee that we are choosing today, December 29th, and the government of the Republic of Serbia did not deliver its list in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23493	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Ninoslav Stojadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23494	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Arsic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, such as the prime minister, the chairman of our Board of Directors Aleksandra Jerkov, has already said, is quite late in forming a new composition of the National Council, which, at the end of last year, expired its mandate and is simply unacceptable. In view of the state of higher education it is not only the opinion of us from the opposition, Mr. Verbic's special adviser, Shuvakov, who says there has been a lot of legal patching, that he, the Law on Higher Education, is practically unusable. Everyone was late to propose candidates, especially the government that delivered on January 5th, but still everything in accordance with the law and we will, regardless of certain remarks we have in the voting day, vote for this composition, but I feel the need to point to some problems. As Alexandra Jerkov has already mentioned, the deadline is not respected, and that is a big problem, because we haven't had the National Council for nearly three months, two and a half months, exactly. Other problems that all the authorised promoters have proposed unique lists so that our role, the role of MPs from the Serbian Parliament, has been reduced to just verifying what they have proposed. If we are talking about the composition of the National Council proposed, there are several problems that have been identified by a number of colleagues from the academic community. First of all, the observation refers to that all scientific areas are not evenly represented. The example works, among 21 candidates, we have three mathematicians here. Well, if we have three mathematicians and some other people from fundamental disciplines, surely the other disciplines of science and education are not represented. Furthermore, there are a lot of current deans and promoters and a lot of former deans, promoters and members of the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Control, which we believe is not good at least when it comes to current managers of scientific educational institutions, because this is too serious work, takes a lot of time and I'm not sure how much they will be able to meet these requirements. Furthermore, there are a lot of pensioners here, and I don't want it to be understood that they are not good quality, but if about 50% of the pensioners' members think there will be a lot of problem with the modern law that Minister Verbic and his associates are talking about. They say that the current law, I will repeat it once more, is so patched up that it no longer meets the conditions and that it must be urgently proposed a new law in line with the 2020 development strategies. Further, Aleksandra Jerkov cited problems in the proposal, it is unacceptable that the government of the Republic of Serbia has no insight into it. He proposes six candidates for six available positions and has no idea that one of the candidates is already ten, twelve years old, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly. In the end, I have a particular dilemma, among the candidates is my ETF colleague, a retired professor who has been extended by one year, Miodrag Popovic, so I'm afraid there is no conflict of interest in his case as well. Here is a stenogram I will read from the session of the Serbian Parliament since 4.9.2014 and from 9.9.2014, when we discussed amendments to the Law on Higher Education, where he was called by the President of the Assembly on the proposal of Minister Verbic, as a professional consultant at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. So if in this capacity it appears absolutely and this is about conflict of interest or this is some way to compensate for his position in the Ministry, through elections to the National Council, where, you'll have to admit, compensations are not small at all, and this time of austerity, I don't think that's right. Finally, I would like to say that despite all the problems, despite all the mistakes that the Ministry of Science, Education and Technological Development has made, because of the dramatic situation in higher education, the problems with accreditation, with the recognition of diplomas, with some objections to some acquired diplomas, masters, PhDs, etc., scientific papers and all that is happening these days, and especially given that only the Ministry feels that the law is not good and that there is a new law to be made, and there is a role of the National Council on Some Foundations in line with the development strategies, we will vote for this composition, noting that there are also great candidates among the proposed candidates. I wouldn't mention names now. There are also members of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, some respected professors and foreign universities, well-known universities in the world, so I think that with all the problems, this National Council will meet our expectations and will contribute significantly to this relatively thin composition of the Ministry, in creating a new law on higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23495	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23496	I'm on behalf of the MPs' group now. A delay that I also spoke of and respected counterpart Stojadinovic has caused the National Assembly a lot of problems and has affected its reputation in a few, and we in our committee have been exposed to criticism by those who have been waiting for this appointment, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been late with its proposal even more than other proposings, i.e. the government is the only authorised promoter who has waited until the mandate expires to the National Council for Higher Education, to propose new ones, so that the proposal itself has come too late. Later, it turned out that the government's proposal itself and the government's only proposal made a mistake that we later corrected, on January 26th, the Committee established this list with an amendment that came before the MPs today, yet it took a month and a half and more than a month and a half, that this summary list was on the agenda, despite my efforts as chairman of the Committee to make it happen earlier. When we adopted the urgent procedure of amending the law that we were correcting, Minister Selakovic, we saw that the session could be scheduled for one day when the minister wanted it to be the way he wanted it to be, and when it comes to the National Council for Higher Education, we saw that there are numerous indeterminate obstacles to the adoption of the list. Given that the President of the Commission for Quality Control and Accreditation has sent a letter to me as chairman of the Emergency Committee, which has made me extremely uncomfortable both because of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and because of the ruling coalition in this Assembly and asking that this be on the agenda as soon as possible, but not for some reason, given that he is also on the candidate list, but because of this delay, and because of the choice of members of the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Control, whose mandate stands out on 15 April. I understand why the ruling coalition is not in the interest of the commission being formed and started working in some new capacity, because, among other things, the commission in its work description, which has been established by the Law on Higher Education, has control over the work of some universities, where senior officials of the ruling coalition have acquired their doctoral titles and all the other academic titles they have. If that's the case, then you should just say so. If the wish was to be late first with the government's proposal, and then the mistake was stolen, and it was corrected, so it couldn't be formed commission, so it couldn't be found on the agenda for a month and a half, it's all legitimate, it just needs to be known that it is. I think that, if nothing else, even if the Government of the Republic of Serbia owes the Assembly an apology, because because the Government of the Assembly was reluctant to do so was subject to hastening, the subject of condemnation, and we received an exceptional, academic community, negative assessment of the fact that the Assembly did not adopt new members of the National Council for Higher Education. However, I say, this later turned out to be true, because even if the new amended proposal came on January 26th and the Committee addressed the president of the National Assembly on January 26th to adoption, it took us a month and a half to get him on the agenda. Mr Stojadinovic spoke of a conflict of interest found in one candidate, I find it one of the few candidates proposed by all the authorised applicants, so that our application was that, apart from taking care of the professional, evenly represented candidates to take care of all the bodies we choose as the Assembly, a sufficient number of women. The university is not a place where there are not enough women, or a person less represented, who could be members of the National Council for Higher Education, and that's exactly where our application has been made to all the authorised promoters and the National Council itself, that when they form committees, they take care of it, because we all noticed that there are unusual and disproportionately many mathematicians in relation to other professions where there are very many men in relation to women and that was our request. What I think we should do is make an effort all together when we change the law that determines this, and when we may change the Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational System, which is determined by the National Educational Council, it is to kind of strengthen the electoral role of the National Assembly, that what is now possible in the law, and that is to propose more candidates, so that the Assembly chooses between these candidates as much as it is elected, to make this a commitment in the future. This list that we've got seems to be the role of the Assembly is solely a verification. The only thing we can do is that the list, the whole, or accept, or refuse, we can't choose between more candidates, we can't accept some, we can't accept some, and because of that, simply to strengthen this election role of the Assembly in this process, I think we should consider that when we change this law and other laws that are governed by national councils, we just impose the obligation on the applicants to propose more candidates than is elected even though there is now exclusively as a possibility. That's about all we wanted to say in this first report. I'll see if there's still a need to answer. So, the delay in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and afterwards the impeccableness of the ruling coalition in the Assembly, have caused great damage in the process of forming a new accreditation and quality control commission, and we can only guess why someone is not in the interest that the accreditation and quality control committee is formed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23497	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, the Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I use the right to replication, given that some irregularities, or so on, have been mentioned. "a great shame," it seems to me, first of all, in a tone whose goal was to be critical towards the government, regardless of what the subject is like, and we will talk much today on this subject and hopefully be able to point out why it is important and why the solutions that are on the agenda are good, and deserves to be dealt with first and foremost, it seemed to me that the previous exposure, first of all, was intended to deal with criticism works, once again by who knows which time. I have a few questions about that. The damage that has been mentioned, if I had understood well that in some violation I would have asked for concrete examples, but possibly very specific and formal procedural things, correspondence, public statements, therefore, something that would be reduced to the level of personal contact, because I really don't know about such information, and it would be interesting to hear them if there were any. As for other deadlines that may have anything to do with the deadline set for forming this council, the Accreditation Commission is mentioned and April 15, if I am not mistaken, the beginning of March comes today, so I would like to get some comment on what we missed out on, and we are still more than a month ahead of every possible deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23499	Right on the line, the folk emissary of the magistrate Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here is a letter from the Commission on Accreditation and Quality Control, presidents of the Committee, Aleksandri Jerkov, on 25 February 2015. This is, therefore, the moment at which the mandate of the National Council for Higher Education has expired for two months, and our corrected proposal with all delays of government, government corrections, etc. has been in the Assembly for a month now. So, the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Control, it tells me as chairman of the Committee, or I don't know the urgency, they called it a letter expressing concern that the National Assembly did not adopt, reminds me and reminds me as chairman of the Committee that the mandate of the National Council for Higher Education expired on December 29th, as if we don't know and says that because these members are no longer in the mandate they can't start preparing for the selection of a new Commission for accreditation and quality control. I believe that you SNS don't know that in the academic world there's something to be prepared, some deadlines exist, so there's something to be done. You're early one morning, so you're doctored, but believe it or not, people in the academic community are seriously preparing things because there were no members of the National Council for Higher Education. They began to be late for preparations to elect members for the accreditation and quality control commission and to warn the National Assembly that the deadline had expired. Here, an official memo, nothing private, no private correspondence, seduced at the office of the Assembly, seduced by the board, and that's what you asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23501	Right on the replica of Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to actually thank you very kindly for getting the answer and actually confirm that the damage if I understood correctly was neither could it be, nor will things be, since I remind you of the date we're in. When we discuss this, I remind you that we will soon be able to officially plead. We'll end everything more than a month before that deadline that was mentioned here. So, it's a kind memo and a reminder, not a damage, not a disdain of the academic community, not a violation of some dignity of the National Assembly, so I would certainly ask that, I believe, it's an accidental mistake. We choose words because there's no need for them to be different. A small note on my part for an esteemed colleague, not one, many times in the morning to be doctored, I can confirm on the basis of some random personal experiences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23503	Thank you. Right to the replica of Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23504	You're right, Mr. Orlic. It doesn't matter what the mandate of the National Council for Higher Education expired three months ago and there is no problem for the Assembly, nor for the rule of law, nor for the respect of law, nor for any honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23505	Thank you. I ask, do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, this time in front of the parliamentary group, I'd like to put the focus of this story where it should belong today. I hope that we are a kind of mini duo and every need that seems chronic exists and that every topic, including these and these, reminds me quite a bit of the situation when we were able to talk about candidates for members of the National Educational Council, that even these topics are turning into polygons for political reckoning, someone's desire to literally in everything, even where it's necessary to imagine with a lot of imagination, sees some problem related to the government. So, to deal with today's topic that is important, since it is about selecting candidates for the National Council for Higher Education. It is an extremely important body, a body whose responsibilities are great, a body that, wanting to underline once again the importance of the work it is doing, I will quote some of its competences and mention what everything should be done in our society, which, above all, is formed to ensure the development and improvement of the quality of higher education in the Republic. Article 11 of the relevant law defines its competences: The National Council monitors the development of higher education and its compliance with international standards, proposes to the ministry responsible for higher education higher education policy tasks, gives an opinion on the policy of enrolment in higher education institutions, gives an opinion in the process of adopting rules governing issues of importance for higher education, proposes to the government normative and labour standards of higher education institutions, prescribes standards for self-evaluation, assessing the quality of higher education institutions, standards for external quality checking. Important competences include the setting of standards and procedures for accreditation, which, at least indirectly, have been referred to today. It sets standards and procedures for accreditation of study programmes. It decides in the second degree of appeal, in the accreditation process, to determine the minimum conditions for selecting teachers, determines the list of professional, academic and scientific names, etc. There are still a dozen very important responsibilities, very important questions for our society, of course, in the sphere of higher education. I think it's undeniable why it's important to form this body. I am also informing interested colleagues, since they are clearly there, that, according to all the information from the Ministry of Education, this deadline that we are accomplishing is precisely with dynamics that implies today's debate and voting for the other day is fully in line with what is expected to happen and that the Council for Higher Education expects. So, all that's planned to be realized in the state is a being, I assure you, and in that sense I'm trying to calm down possibly concerned, done on time. You've seen the list of candidates, distinguished colleagues and ladies and gentlemen. It is a complete list – 21 names, with accompanying biographies in the materials we received for the session. You'll let me say, 21 more than clear, outstanding professional biography. And it's normal to be that way. It's to expect us to get such suggestions. I find that, as the Committee president has told us, the necessary number of names have been delivered, each on their part, and I realize that, as we have been able to agree together and when we discussed candidates for members of the National Educational Council, this is one of the opportunities when we can all be satisfied with the outcome that will follow. We will plead in terms of support for people who have achieved professionalism, top lecturers, proven scientific workers, creators in their field. No one can in any way repent of the decision to support such solutions and such people, once again, in a Council of such importance and whose decisions are so important to society. In that sense, I don't have any personal reserves against the candidates and I believe there's no reason to do otherwise in voting day until we jointly support all these proposals. I will also refer briefly to some of the comments we have heard in the debate so far. As for the deadlines, once again, in case someone hasn't heard, everything will be done in time and there will be no consequences for society. And what should happen by April 15th, I believe, will be done by April 15th. As for the comments that the proposed lists are formed in the number of proposals, so in the number of candidates that exactly corresponds to the minimum requirements, that is, we do not have the opportunity to make a statement about a broader list of candidates in order to eventually choose among some of them, I can only conclude that there is no obligation in this regard. There's a possibility. And I think one comment, which is, I'm sure, an unintended mistake, was in the direction that it's not acceptable, unimaginable, I'm not sure now what term was used, don't hold my word now, that the government is proposing six of the possible six names. In fact, I don't think the law predicts that the government has any extra space here. There is additional space for possible 15 of the required 12 for KONUS, or three of the required two for the Academy of Professional Studies Conference. As for the representation of certain areas, i.e. educational and educational and artistic fields, there is a formal obligation to take care of it, but in what part? In that part of the total colloquial quota relating to CONUS. So I believe that in this material it is clearly specified that KONUS, on his part, stated which relevant areas, i.e. the respective fields, belong to certain candidates. For others, such a kind of formal obligation does not exist, nor would it be realistic to expect all authorised proposings to coordinate their own proposals. So I believe this was a 100% accidental mistake. Asking whether candidates involved in other important positions at this point will be able to fully devote themselves to the work that awaits them, I would refer once again to what I have stated as a general position on the quality of these candidates, i.e. the proposed names. I believe that it has been proven to be capable people, and in this sense I see no obstacle to whether there are any pensioners among the candidates and whether this will affect the sufficient level of modernity of the law that needs to be prepared. I don't think that's really a question, because, as we know, only experience, as well as youth alone, is never something that should be the basic quality of an individual, whatever he's dealing with. Once again, here I refer to proven expertise, proven results, both professional and teaching. I'm sure it's about candidates who understand the area very well, who have all the important experience in it, whether they're retired or still working actively and can only contribute in a positive direction, so that the modernity of the law will actually be defined by our ability, but also by all of us together, to respond to the challenges of this moment, not how long we've spent under a certain law in practice. As for the issue of conflict of interest mentioned in relation to one of the candidates, I would only briefly remind my colleagues that the answer for this was received by the ministry at a meeting of the Assembly Committee, so I believe that the issue was confirmed at that time quite clearly. Finally, I thank those who, in addition to certain reserves, expressed support for this solution, as well as for the words that there are great candidates. I join them, greet them, and reward them minimally. Not only are there, I am personally convinced that the candidates shown are in that category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23507	Thank you. Comrade Stojadinovic, on what basis are you answering? (Ninoslav Stojadinović, from the place: The clarification one, did not understand me well. It's not a classic replica because of the insult. I think I should explain it one more time. ) The word has a People's MP, Ninoslav Stojadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23508	Dear Mr. Arsic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I have no intention of teaching a young colleague, Orlic, with whom I have an extremely good co-operation with the board, but I would like to try with a few brief notes to point out what was going on in that discussion. Rocks, maybe I'll get better as a teacher of pedagogues to bring things closer. Of course, there was no big damage, because this was relatively fast done, but in order for the accreditation commission to form, the university of a very trom system with an inert, that's where it moves from the college of proposal, so goes university, commission. So, hardly, dear fellow, it's hard to do that by mid-April, but I don't think it'll be tragic if it's a week or even a month late. It's important that solutions be the best quality. That's one thing. About the number of candidates, you are absolutely right that the government is proposing a fixed number of candidates and, as a rule, the government is always proposing the last one, so I understand why this proposal arrived at the latest, so that some adjustments can be made. As far as the area is concerned, you're absolutely wrong. CONUS has proposed three mathematicians, so unfortunately, CONUS has made no mistake, no other promoters have made it. CONUS had to bear in mind that out of these 11, 12 candidates have three mathematicians and not all areas are covered. Other positions, of course, are allowed, but there's so much work to do and I just think it's better if people aren't overloaded. Of course, a combination of experiences...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23509	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23510	From the time of the authorized representative, I will. A combination of experience and relative youth is a good thing. I've discussed it in that sense. If you think, colleague, that it is enough that a special advisor on the board said there is no conflict of interest, I read you a stenogram from the session, where my colleague and friend Popovic is, it is clear that he is a consultant of the ministry. This can be understood in a way that by appointing him to this National Council in some way he is remanded through compensation that he was a consultant at the ministry, more specifically in the government. Don't realize that every remark is malicious. After all, you're in one piece and commended some things. I repeat again, given the importance of the Council, the accreditation commission, what awaits us in the coming period and a large number of great candidates to be more precise, on this list, our parliamentary club will vote. But let's just say that we don't agree with everything, point to some possible failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23511	It's been used a minute and a half since the authorized representative's time. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23512	Thank you. Certainly, once again, I would like to thank you very briefly for the additional reasons we have received when it comes to the business that awaits us by April 15th. I've expressed my personal confidence, always, even this time, I'm leaving the possibility of being wrong. I simply don't think it's unrealistic for that deadline to be respected, respecting certainly the complexity of a mechanism like the academic community and the need to do things in a fashionable way, which is said to turn out to be the right thing to do. As far as the area is concerned, I don't think we understand each other. I just wanted to point out the fact that the government had no such formal obligation to take care of individual areas when proposing candidates, and that's why I pointed out that this kind of formal obligation exists for CONUS. Whether they are wrong or not, we can agree or not, but the fact is that they have shown these areas honestly and with the names of the candidates, leaving us free and willing to decide whether or not we are satisfied with such a kind of proposal. At the very end, Professor Popovic's question, is it in any kind of an opportunity to professionally assist the ministry, although it's not a formal function, I can't say, I can't know, but one thing I can argue on the basis of some personal attitude towards it as an expert, I'm sure it's absolutely no way for the government, the ministry, any rematch for that kind of help by proposing it. I'm sure it's a man whose résumé is such that he would certainly deserve to be on the candidate list, no matter what he does at a given time, I'm 100% convinced of what I tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23513	Thank you. Since no more than the president, or representative of the parliamentary groups, wants a word, we move on to the order of MPs according to the application for the word. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23514	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it's time we realized that education is one of the most important processes in every society, that it is the foundation of society. We shouldn't bother here with these problems if the opposition has one position and the other position. I think we need to be unique here, and so far we have proven that in the process of education we have not been successful in reform or in solving many other problems. I believe that it is high time that we performed unitedly in this field and that we really brought education to the extent and level that the citizens of Serbia and Serbia deserve. Were there any problems in this business? Yes, it's obvious. I have to agree with my colleagues and my colleague, who said that one of the problems is that the Assembly is tasked with only appointing something that someone has brought, or was not able to choose between a number of candidates who are proposed and those who are elected. If the government had already had that possibility that it didn't have to have a wider list, the others didn't have that option. I don't think it was correct of them, especially since we were as a board and asked for that list to be extended. There are other objections. I'm not running away from it, though, I don't know all the candidates and I can't talk about them, but I can say one thing about me, an opinion. It doesn't matter if someone's young, whether they're a lot of years old, whether they're retired, because this is a job that needs to end up smart, wise people who know it and know their job. A priest recently told me at a celebration, at my remarks - the younger world remains, he said - professor, you are wrong, on the smart world remains. Being young doesn't mean he's smart. It is our duty to choose the smartest, wisest people who will really do the job to please everyone who is in this system. I think it would be a good idea if we had the opportunity to make a special statement about each candidate and pick out those who get the most votes. There is another problem, or remark that I have heard from academic circles. Vice-President KONUS is a representative of the "Singidum" University, and is also proposed on the list another member of the National Council, which is from the "Singidum" University. I think it was much more logical, since so far, as far as I know, the representative was with Megatrend, that it was much more logical for a representative to be someone from another university, let's say from the Business Academy, an Alpha or any of those other universities, because there would still be a much better representation and that as much as it can be possible for other universities to be represented. I believe that we will make a decision as we are expected, but I hope that we will take much more care of education in the future, because without good education, we will not have a chance to implement the reforms that are so announced in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23515	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23516	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that we are discussing a very important topic, because every time it comes to education and especially high education on the agenda, I believe that this topic should draw particular attention to all the MPs in our National Assembly, especially when we here in the Assembly should choose 21 members of the National Council for Higher Education. My guess is that all the individuals, all the individuals who are represented here, as candidates for members of the National Council for Higher Education, know what the powers of this council are and know how important the work that awaits a member of the National Council for Higher Education is. So much earlier, I have some dilemmas about the proposed candidates, and therefore the way we here in the Assembly treat this topic. The National Council for Higher Education is engaged in ensuring the development and improvement of the quality of higher education. We have here, especially in the last year, had a flood, if nothing else, and then what, serious doubts that in our universities, in a drastic way, the principle of academic honesty has been violated, and I was then wondering, gentlemen, if anyone here, the promoter, any MP, could tell us whether any of these 21 persons and one word, in this time period, responded to serious doubts that academic integrity, as one of the basic principles of the higher education system, was compromised in our country. I didn't notice that. Another thing, gentlemen, the National Council for Higher Education is monitoring the development of higher education and its compliance with European and international standards, and what have we welcomed, respected gentlemen and ladies Members of Parliament? We welcome a special point in the European Parliament's latest resolution on Serbia to be dedicated to assessing the state of higher education, where it is said that our state institutions and that our academic community has failed to deal with a major plagiarism problem, gentlemen. No country has received such an assessment in one of the points of the report, or resolution of the European Parliament, gentlemen. I wonder -- is one of these 21 people on these lists here, can anyone give me the name of one person from here who responded to this difficult situation in which the higher education system in Serbia is today, so let's say -- let's agree on that one person and the other person, about 21 people? I can't find such a person on these lists, gentlemen. The National Council for Higher Education sets standards for self-valuation and evaluation of the quality of higher school institutions. Did one of these people here, who knows that candidates and candidates for a seat at the National Council for Higher Education, react, ask for accreditation checks, so let's see where these credentials are at individual or all universities? There isn't, gentlemen. Now what? Now I need here to vote on this 21 person and that the National Council for Higher Education is working without any control, responsibility for those tasks that concern all of these responsibilities that are part of the work of the National Council for Higher Education. Watch out now, gentlemen, next example, the Serbian University Conference has proposed Professor Papa as a member of the National Council for Higher Education. In Professor Pope's biography, he said -- a member of the accreditation and quality check committee for high school institutions in Serbia since 2006, respected gentlemen. Since 2013 the President of the Accreditation Commission. In one word, a man did not respond to a violation of academic integrity. Here on the board, when we were waiting for him, he didn't speak, and now he needs to move to the National Council for Higher Education, which has all these responsibilities, gentlemen. If education is an important area for all of us here, first of all for young people, so let's seriously approach the issue that is important for education, especially for higher education, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23517	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my esteemed colleague Orlic said, there was no harm in the high education system in the Republic of Serbia because of the fact that we will choose members of the National Council for Higher Education in March. If you have a little follow-up to the presentation of colleagues from the former regime, they have generally had objections to the formal side of this procedure, i.e. the fact that the previous National Council for Higher Education expired on 29 December 2014. Just chronologically, that's true. The second question has always been raised when the deadlines were exceeded – was it due to any damage to the higher education system in the Republic of Serbia, was it damage to any of the universities in the Republic of Serbia, was it the founder of the Republic of Serbia, the autonomous province of Vojvodina or any private founder, was it damage to any of the universities in the Republic of Serbia, and, most importantly, did it damage the students studying at our higher education institutions? Not that I know of. So, classes take place regularly, exams take place regularly, and there are no problems. As for the remarks, regarding the fact that there are certain problems in the higher education system, I just want to remind my colleagues in the former regime that it wasn't the SNS who voted for the Higher Education Act in 2005. So, the Law on Higher Education is, like many other laws, inherited from the previous period. I am convinced that Minister Verbic is doing everything he can and has the full support of SNS MPs to overcome the problems that exist in the high education of the Republic of Serbia. These problems can't be overcome overnight. System solutions are needed. Systemic solutions require a certain time. We're not taking responsibility for something we're not guilty of. In 2005 and later, many smart people in the Republic of Serbia pointed out that in the Law on Higher Education, which, as I recall, was brought in quite hastily, without sufficient consultation with the academic community in Serbia, that even then many smart people referred numerous objections to its content. The law is what it is. We will do everything, as MPs, believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will participate in this and the RES, that the problems that exist in the higher education system will be overcome. As for what Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic was talking about, Mr. Pavicevic always has the need to, whenever on the agenda of the National Assembly, in any way, ask the question of higher education, whether it is the amendments to the Law on Higher Education or, as now, the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education, to some categories that do not exist in the positive law of the Republic of Serbia, such as the category of academic integrity, and to then provide toxic political arrows, first of all, on behalf of the SNS, alluding to some plagiarists. He probably thinks of that elaborate story and fiction, about Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic's interior minister, that his doctoral dissertation of plagiarism, which we here at the National Assembly, at the plenary session, at the session of the resolution board, proved not true. Of course, what Miss Alexandra Jerkov said -- what you in SNS know about higher education, you wake up in the morning and get a doctorate, or early in the morning and doctorate. I think it's a huge insult to the SNS parliamentary group, which has quite a number of university professors, regular, extraordinary, doctoral sciences. I don't think Mrs. Aleksandra Jerkov is someone who needs to lecture us on how much the SNS parliamentary group has scientific weight and how competent it is to properly assess the quality of the estimated solutions, i.e. the quality of the candidates proposed by the Serbian University Conference and by the Academy of Professional Studies Conference, both by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and by the Government of the AP Vojvodina. What I also want to point out is that when we talk about members, namely candidates for members of the National Council for Higher Education, I can say on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and defend the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that the government has proposed the best possible candidates. I am not questioning at all the fact that other authorised promoters have done so, and I personally think that nothing is disputed in the proposed names. Moreover, almost all scientific areas and almost all scientific disciplines are represented. I didn't understand fellow Pavicevic's remarks that he didn't hear any of 21 candidates say anything about problems in the higher education system, that no one said anything about plagiarists, that no one said anything about all those topics that are fighting university life in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think it's an absolute grade. After all, if you read a little bit of the biographies of the proposed candidates, and in particular the biographies of candidates proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you will see that they are really distinguished scientists who have a number of textbooks, monographs, published scientific and professional papers, that they are people who have been teaching science at our universities for years. The fact that these people did not engage in daily politics and that they did not want to side with certain on-call critics of the Government of Serbia and those who simply made up the story for daily political reasons that Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic plagiarized his doctorate, and we reiterated this once again, proved that this is not true, that this is why these people should not be elected, that is to say, to question their scientific competence and their merit to be elected as members of the National Council for Higher Education. If you look at these dates as well, I have to note in the report of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, which was signed by Miss Alexandra Jerkov, whether consciously or unconsciously, there is one mistake. Namely, the government of the Republic of Serbia has established its conclusion proposing members of the National Council for Higher Education on 31 December 2014, not on 5 January 2015. In general, if you look at these dates that proposed candidates, i.e. how chronologically the order of proposing candidates by authorised applicants, you will see that absolutely all the authorised applicants gave their candidates in the course of December 2014. Now to say, the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible because the deadline has been broken is at least incorrect. So, the government of the AP Vojvodina made its proposal on December 10th, the others also gave in December. The government of the Republic of Serbia did so on 31 December 2014. So, all the authorised promoters did so during December 2014 and responsibility for breaking the deadline, which, as I said, did not cause any damage to the higher education system in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the overall responsibility to the government of the Republic of Serbia is at least incorrect, especially given the fact that the government had very difficult tasks ahead of it and that it was dealing with problems that had not been solved in Serbia for years. Now get out of the overall context of government work just one question, which is the proposal of candidates for the National Council for Higher Education is unreasonable, I can say even politically rude, given that such attacks, that such criticisms come precisely from those who are the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the proposal of candidates for the National Council for Higher Education is unreasonable, I can say even politically rude, given that such attacks, that such criticisms come precisely from those who left the Governments of the Republic of Serbia with extremely difficult political and economic heritage, and among other things, a very difficult legacy when it comes to a system of higher education in the Republic of Serbia. What the former regime does, and here today, at this session, is that it simply requires the MPs of the people, above all from the MPs of the SNS to start suffering from amnesia and to forget how problems in higher education have arisen. If you follow the words of the former regime, whether they are MPs or former ministers or former presidents of the state or former Prime Ministers, etc. or at the end and now in power of the AP Vojvodina, you will see that they are responsible for the overall state of higher education to be transferred to the government led by Mr. Alexander Vukic. Alexander Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, are now responsible for both accreditation problems and problems related to the quality of scientific works and the fact that there are certain problems at some private universities, or private universities. That's just not true. The SNS parliamentary group does not accept such an assessment. So we found a difficult condition. This difficult situation we are trying to fix and one step in solving this difficult situation is the choice of members of the National Council for Higher Education, so the National Assembly, and there is no need for MPs of the former regime to scare the academic community in Serbia, to scare the citizens of Serbia, to scare the students that there will be no disaster because we will choose members of the National Council for Higher Education within a day. So we'll do it. Higher education will work in Serbia, and there are problems, no one is questioning it, but as problems in higher education exist in Serbia, they exist in less than all European countries. There are also countries that have moved significantly before Serbia to a "bolon" system of higher education, and there are a number of problems, and there are a number of doubts about whether it was a better old or new system, how to overcome certain problems. Now, to say that Serbia is the only country in Europe where there are problems in higher education is simply incorrect. You had a situation a while ago that, if I'm not mistaken, a highly-ranked German politician resigned because someone estimated there was a problem with his scientific work. Why would Serbia now be the only country in Europe in the opinion of Mr Pavicevic in which there are problems in higher education? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: What about ours? ) Mr Pavicevic says – and ours. He's probably thinking of Nebojsa Stefanovic. In Germany, it has been proven, Mr Pavicevic, that it is a plagiarism, and it has not been proven here... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23519	Please, without speaking to my colleague Martinovic personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23520	... . Here you are, here I come to you, Mr. Arsic. Here you, Mr. Pavicevic, your mentors and your contemplators on the unfulfilled four pages of A4 paper, of which on one half of the site stood some big picture of a classroom with a big board, so on the fact that three sheets of paper tried to prove that Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic plagiarized his doctoral dissertation and then called for the opinion of some renowned scientists and then when we looked at the biographies of these scientists, etc. Scientists and prominent researchers, we found that if one is not wrong, an assistant, one has nothing to do with higher education at all, except that once he graduated from college and now these people are allegedly competent to assess whether the doctoral dissertation of Heavenly Stefanovic is plagiarized or not. We proved it wasn't plagiarized. After all, the independent commission has proved that this is not true and in this sense, your open arrows that you refer to Mr Stefanovic, which you refer to the Serbian Progressive Party are already slightly deplaced. I understand that you're trying to build on that one part of your political career, but I don't think that's very good for you. You will have to resort to some new invention, but the second time you make something up, try even if it makes any sense, i.e. to step up your argument a little, because the argument you made about Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic was not worth anything and, as both the Prime Minister and the President of the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandar Vucicic - I am the stupider argument that something plagiarist really did not hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23521	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23522	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Martinovic, was just before criticising the actions of both this government and this majority called the poison arrow that was addressed to the Serbian Progressive Party, and then cited several examples from European practice, which is precisely not seen in our country, so when it was found here, when it turned out seriously, I mean here in Germany, I wanted to say, and here during the debate, respected gentlemen, during our debate on the board, that Nebojsa Stefanovic had unfairly acquired the call of a doctor of science, so Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Arsic were on the board, there was also a mentor of Mr. Stefanovic, who was established, the mentor admitted that he had no title as a doctor of science. We have determined that the committee that evaluated Mr Stefanovic's doctoral dissertation was not qualified to assess doctoral dissertation. In similar examples, respected gentlemen, in other countries, the minister, when such a thing is determined, resigns as Mr Martinovic just said here. It is only with us that such a minister gets the greatest protection of the first man of executive power, and this is Mr. Vukic, and not only that, but Mr. Vukic then insults our young researchers who are dealing with the methodology of making scientific work, saying that their argument is foolish, which is why Mr. Vukic later had to apologize to respected gentlemen. I mean here, the academic community in our country is exposed to a kind of destruction of the executive government, but the way the academic community proposes its candidates for members of the National High Education Council is talking about another important phenomenon, a kind of auto-destruction that's happening there now, and that's, I mean, an even bigger problem than this first problem we've recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23523	Right on line, MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, first of all, it is not true and constantly you, Mr Pavicevic, repeat this one untruth, that the Committee has proven that the doctoral dissertation of Heavenly Stefanovic is plagiarism. I now want to say before other peoples and citizens of Serbia that something like this has not been proven. You tried to prove it, but it just didn't work out for you. What you're also keeping quiet, but you're doing it because you actually have other arguments and you don't have it, is saying that at Megatrend University, a commission was formed that evaluated the credibility and originality of the doctoral dissertation of Nebojja Stefanovic and that the president of that commission was a regular professor, if I'm not mistaken, of the Faculty of Economics in Subotica, of the state college, not of the private university, not of Megatrend University. So someone outside Megatrend University read the doctoral dissertation together with his other colleagues and reported very clearly that the doctoral dissertation was done in a valid manner in accordance with the law, according to university regulations, in accordance with university customs and that there is absolutely nothing controversial in this doctoral dissertation. With all due respect to these young people, as you say, who have dealt with the credibility of the doctoral dissertation of Neboja Stefanovic, firstly, these people are not competent for the matter that they...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23525	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23526	... . The doctoral dissertation dealt, and what we could read was quite thin, there were no arguments and what I want to say in the end, you did not actually attack Nebojsa Stefanović, you were through Nebojsa Stefanović and those false stories about the plagiarization of his doctoral dissertation in fact attacked Alexander Vukic as you attack one of us...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23527	Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23528	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of all the things we've been dealing with since we were little, I believe that there is agreement here that education is one of the most important and therefore it is very important to be sensitive to all the important issues regarding education. It is very important to know what has been found on our Education Committee, and it has been found, gentlemen, that two members of the Committee for the Defence of Doctoral Dissertation of Mr Stefanovic are foreigners who do not understand Serbian language, and the doctoral dissertation has been handed over in Serbian, that one member of the commission was not present at the defence of doctoral dissertation. Therefore, three out of five members of the commission could not plead on doctoral dissertation, and one member of the commission and mentor Mr Stefanovic did not have a doctorate from London to whom he called here by explaining his top scientific and research achievements. Dear gentlemen, young researchers, ours, to acknowledge in a world dealing with the methodology of scientific work are competent to judge, and Mr. Vukic, who has not published any scientific work in his life, is not competent to judge whether something plagiarized or not, gentlemen. The second thing, the European Parliament has prepared a resolution in which one point declares its concern because our institutions, which means our Assembly, too, respected gentlemen, have failed to deal with the major problem of violating the principles of academic integrity and plagiarism. And I'm okay with it, there's a doctor of science in SNS who's earned their calling with honor and I'm surprised why these people don't react here, why they didn't answer first to say anything – I got a fair deal, and this one didn't get a fair answer. Here's Mr. Orlic, why didn't you stand up and say, "I've won a fair deal, and this man is going to resign because in an unfair way he's won the title of doctor of science, gentlemen of honor?"
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23529	Right on line, MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23530	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It will certainly be part of the time for replication, and it will also concern the questions that have just been asked on many occasions, and now finally it comes to me. It is a question of the argument used in the text published on the site, and I believe it is about "The Sandman", even then. We've been talking about it for a very long time and we're not moving with what we've long established, and that's what's been published in that text, who wrote it, what he used as arguments and how long it's survived, if there's anything to survive. I answer the question referred to me – yes, I believe that I have done all that is right. If I felt the need to react in the way I'm suggested now, I would have done it anyway. I am not for one single reason, and in this regard I am also responding to a comment on whether the Prime Minister was in a position to give or not to give a court on what was presented as an argument. As to what was presented as an argument, you don't need scientific work, distinguished colleagues. It's enough to look at what's written, and it's written next. I won't be able to quote correctly, but I'll give you the essence. It is written that it is considered plagiarism if someone puts in their work that a regional body in Italy has so many members, or that these members are chosen in that way and in that way. So anyone who reads it doesn't have to do scientific work can very easily answer the question whether it's plagiarizing or not. When a text appears in which someone will write that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia numbers 250 members or members who are elected in such a way, it will be clear to everyone that he did not invent it himself, but it will also be clear to everyone that it cannot be plagiarism because it is a common known fact. When someone uses it as an argument, you really can't think of it as someone who took these things seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23531	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. A colleague of Pavicevic, you do not have the right to a replica. You've received answers to the questions you asked. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Mr Arsic, I have the right under Article 104, he spoke to me personally. ) Mr Pavicevic, you called your colleague Orlic by name why he did not answer the question and you received an answer. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: Misreading. ) Mr Pavicevic, there is often no wrong answer, but the wrong question. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23532	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I admit that in addition to the name of academicist Stojadinović, such as distinguished colleague Dr. Vladimir Orlic, such as Professor Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, I, with my academic title as a graduate engineer, may even have the least rights and I can speak of today's agenda point, but I will speak honestly, I will speak with my heart and will not hide behind the fat books that have been placed with some colleagues on the parliamentary bench in order for the weight of their words to be stronger. No, it's not, if these books are used for masking and for screening, not to be read and used as an argument. If we use some argument we just heard, that Mr. Vukic does not have the right to talk about work, and with which right is someone who is lower by academic rank to talk about respected representatives and proposed candidates, such as academician Gjorge Šijački or academician Slobodan Grubačić? With what right then, Mr Pavicevic, Professor Pavicevic, has the right to speak of them? Let's do the same logic, let's do it the same way. An even more dangerous argument is that if one of these proposed names, the proposed people don't think like him, then he's not worthy of the functions he's proposed on. What's the argument? I can't talk about any of the proposed names, although they were proposed by different institutions, due to respect for the functions, or academic titles they have – doctor, doctor, academic, academic, doctor, professor-doctor. I don't want to talk about these people by respecting both the time and the effort and the knowledge they carry and what they put into themselves. I can't speak for generations of young people who have been educated and for those young people and generations of young people who are just about to educate. The Serbian Progressive Party will support a list of 21st names for the National Council for Higher Education and for that, but also for those who proposed them, because of the Serbian University Conference, due to the Academy of Professional Studies Conference, the Government of the Republic of Serbia's competent authority of the AP Vojvodina. Another reason that's less important, but it's not for neglect. Of the 21st proposed candidate, two are from Nis, two are from Kragujevac, one is from Užica, one is from Kosovo Mitrovica, four are from Novi Sad and 11 are from Belgrade. Maybe someone will say - insufficient decentralisation, but I think one good picture and one good spread of higher education across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What bothered me was the kind of humiliation that came from political impotence. A humiliation I do not expect in the National Assembly, but not in our society. A humiliation that is very dangerous, especially when it comes from a colleague, Alexandra Jerkov. I will remind you that there are people in the SNS parliamentary group who have a longer academic background than Miss Jerkov is. I am also referring to Professor Dr Milet Poskuric, and Professor Milan Knezevic, and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, and Prof. Dr. Ljubiš Stojmirović, but I also think of young colleagues and colleagues, such as Prof. Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Dr. Vladimir Orlic, Dr. Darko Laketić, Professor Dr. Aleksandar Martinović, and I will not mind my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group if I did not mention them. (Janko Veselinović, from town: A Becic? ) Does anyone have the right, or even the one who throws a violation of the Rules of Procedure and acting inappropriately in the National Assembly, to tell the Serbian Progressive Party – you do not know what a university is? What does this indicate about the Democratic Party, the former regime and counterpart Aleksandra Jerkov? I'm not going to teach anyone a good education here, but I think it's time to respect the years, to respect the academic calling of distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. I wanted to talk to you here today about some other things, with the vanity removed... Did you, Mr. Becic, finish that chat with Mr. Veselinović? I am also ready to wait a little while, because it is likely that Mr. Veselinovic, who, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, throws away the names and academic titles of colleagues and colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, are disturbing. If something like that doesn't suit him, he can get out of the O.R. and have coffee, but here I really expect us to behave worthyly to the National Assembly. I thought today we were going to talk about more important problems of our education. In my ears, one figure answers, 94% of my education budget goes to salaries, and so on for years. Those salaries are earned, earned, I'm sure they're not big enough. But what can we expect from this system of education in which both your children and children are citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Can we expect development, if 94% of the budget and so many decades back, goes to pay? I expected that today we would talk about a brave concept which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, having the right, Mr. Pavicevic, the right given to him by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, expressed in the elections, to deal with and education, the concept of dual education, about something that makes the future of our country. Because for years or years we have educated our young generations and young children without having a place to work or for some of the interests that are necessary, which are similar to these fast times, the times of the IT sector, and that we do not have enough of them, where we can't realise some investments because we don't have enough trained labour. The answer to these problems in our education was given by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, as a proposal and something the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education will work on in the future -- that through education work and through work schools; not to produce diplomas, but to make jobs; not to produce diplomas, but people who will be ready and able to work who are entrusted to them. Because Serbia has to look ahead, and we cannot look ahead without an educated, professional, willing and capable workforce, without people who are educated and trained, without those who will graduate from engineering school, but also know what a stream is and what a rodent is and what a CNC machine is, and not that they can't see it from the book and that they can't recognize it when they enter the first manufacturing sector. I thought we were going to talk to the lost vanity today, and every branch has vanity. That's why I didn't want to talk because I don't have the right to talk. I say this for the first time as a folk MP, out of respect for the academic titles of these people, because of the volumes and volumes of books that do not serve as a clump, as they serve Mr Pavicevic, but to learn from these books and to use these books. I don't want to talk, out of respect and respect for the institutions that proposed them, because I think they're much more competent and professional than I am, but that's why in the voting day I'm going to support and vote for those people. And I'm not going to be dealing with any day-to-day policy that they're going to say -- it's a terrible thing we didn't do two months ago. And what damage was done? Because I'll always be looking for quality at the cost of time. And they better be the first 21 in Serbia's academic community than they're gonna make a mistake. These people are neither suggested nor asked for by the key that Mr Pavicevic just told us. If they don't think like me and if they haven't raised their voice in the choir with "our and our young", and that's the only argument for that text on the Sandstone, "our and our young". You know, “our young and young ” do some bad things, but some“ our young and young ” do some good things, some. And being "our young and young" is no argument, but it was the only one and it was only for the fabrication of the affair. So then these "our and young" are better than international professors who signed under Mr Stefanovic's work, so it wasn't enough. So "our young and young" were better than the commission, a university where the doctoral dissertation was defended by Mr Stefanovic. So "our young and young" were better even than the independent commission formed and discussed by Mr Martinovic. Is it enough to say “our young and young ” because there are our young and young on some, unfortunately, other pages of the newspaper we read about? Is it enough to say “our youth” and believe in everything and say – yes, that is evidence? It's not proof, Mr. Pavicevic, no matter how hard you want to resist and prove such things, as you were, and tried to prove something that is very difficult to prove that it doesn't exist or that it exists. Autocensorship. When officials of the European Union come out and say – people, okay, but give evidence, then these European Union officials will be presented and placed on the blacklist that they should not believe the word of people like Vladimir Pavicevic. That's the only place you're not looking for evidence. The only evidence there is “our and our young ones. ” I respect both our young and young, but I respect the evidence much more and I respect the truth the most because without it there is no education, there is no state, there is nothing. For this reason, I call on all the MPs to support the voting day of the proposed list, to discuss in the future and higher education, but also on the whole of education on the one hand, to get out of those clusters, sometimes made of textbooks and books, to talk about the things that make up the future of our country. The future of our country, the future of our education, is in dual education, as suggested by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23533	Thank you. I guess my colleague Pavicevic - right to the replica, because my colleague Babic mentioned that you hid behind two huge books. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23534	It's a business thing. Dear Chairman, Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You know exactly what he's talking about. It speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly which you, without warning Mr. Babic, have injured. Namely, Mr Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, has rudely offended all young people in the Republic of Serbia. He spoke of them in an offensive way: “Our young ones. ” They're on the other side. So almost 70% of his time he used to insult young people, educated people, it was his accent, because they seem to me to be a danger to Serbia, because they are probably elite, and the elite is very dangerous to Serbia. That is why, Mr Arsic, you have been obliged to warn Mr Babic that the offensive use of the term and in an offensive context use of young generations, which are supposed to be Serbia's future, has injured the dignity of this National Assembly. I don't know what Mr. Babic has against young people, against young, professional, educated people, but you were obliged to warn him of that, Mr. Arsic. It doesn't matter that he's the head of your parliamentary group. You are here first among the equals and you were obliged to say – Mr. Babice, you cannot insult young people. This is not in line with the dignity of the National Assembly, it is not in harmony with morals. How can a MP insult young people who may have voted for his party in the elections?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23535	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23536	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23537	Please, colleague Babic, let me just answer. I think you've gone too far with your colleague, Veselinovic. In no single part of my colleague Babic's exposure, no one could even suspect that he was insulting anyone or young experts, he even said at one point I respect ours, respect and young people, but I don't think they have the qualifications to evaluate someone's professional work. You're saying expressing suspicion is an insult to someone. As a lawyer, you know that's impossible. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Zoran Babic. All right, we'll vote in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23538	Article 106, Mr. Chairman, position two, and I'm not asking you to vote on that. What do you expect from someone who constantly humiliates other people's MPs, while other colleagues and colleagues speak in the National Assembly, and I consider it an established manner. What do you expect from someone who was here a few days ago? [[Janko Veselinović, from the place: Is this a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23539	A colleague of Veseninovic, a colleague of Babic, is now promoting Article 106(2). And now I warn you, not a warning, but a reminder that you are acting in accordance with Article 106(3). Rules of Procedure. Please continue your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23540	What do you expect from someone who throws and interrupts the MPs here? What do you expect from someone who hurt the most roughly a few days ago, all women demeaning, making some kind of psyche, an analysis? What do you expect from someone for whom the word "guru" is humiliation or humiliation, who doesn't understand what that word means? I'm sure he won't understand what I'm saying, and I thank you for the argument that ours and young people are a positive thing, but not enough argument to discuss someone's dissertation, about someone's work. Someone who's rarely here in the O.R., and that time uses to humiliate other people's MPs and the public, and even the academic community that he belongs to because of the title he's wearing just such unquality and hateful statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23541	My colleague Veselinović, on what basis? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23542	Dear Mr. Arsic, you have injured Article 106, 107 and 108, of course, and Article 27. Mr. Babic called to advertise the Rules of Procedure and say that I probably didn't have the opportunity to comment on your session. In no single word did he justify his address to the Rules of Procedure. He didn't say a single word about how I hurt the Rules of Procedure, he was already talking about sessions from the previous days. You know that showing up to a breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be at that session when it is in progress and at that moment when it happened. He mentioned "gurue" some. He talked about other things and you instead warned me when I tried to tell you that he didn't explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, Mr Arsic, I think that your conduct of the session has been questioned, your impartiality, because I believe that you have given Mr Babic the opportunity to talk about everything that was not the subject of advertising of the Rules of Procedure, but that he is doing so as an MP of the Serbian Progressive Party, having more rights than the MPs of the opposition. I believe that this is not good for our parliamentary life, because Mr Babic does not do it today for the first time, but does it whenever he wants to. Every time he wants people who don't want to do their job sitting in that place, they take the lead in party discipline.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23543	I was a witness here, I held a session when you interrupted my colleague Babic while he had his presentation, by trying to communicate with Vice President Becic. Are you saying that's not true? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Because he forgot him? ) I just don't get into the reasons why, I just wanted to tell you that it got in the way of my colleague Babic. Then he rebelled against it, and I don't see what's more controversial about it now. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Okay, I apologize. If you had attended the previous part of the session, you would have known why Mr. Babic reacted so. He responded to the presentation of counterpart Pavicevic, who will now be given hope soon to be entitled to the replica because it is mentioned that he is hiding behind two huge books and I don't see four, there are four books. I don't see any reason why we're going to commercials right now. Do you want in the voting day that the Assembly declares itself? No, I don't. Thank you. Comrade Babic, advertising the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23544	Mr. Chairman, I will no longer report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, there is no reason, but it is interesting that the offensive tone that is part of, the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 104, paragraph 1, which some MPs, some fellow Members of the SNS, to colleagues and colleagues from the SNS, to me, I do not have that problem, I am used to. I didn't mention a respected colleague, Veselinovic, in my statement for the injury of the Rules of Procedure a few minutes ago. Recognizing himself as someone who insulted women, as someone who insulted other people's MPs, which is recognised as someone who throws away while other colleagues and colleagues speak, being recognized as a man who doesn't know what "guru" means, being recognized in many ugly things and ugly scenes related to this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it's more his problem than it is my problem. But it does not give for the right neither to Mr. Veseinović, nor to any other People's MP, nor to me, to insult other People's MPs, and as far as that fascination with my name and last name is concerned, because in the past two controversy with you and two advertising Rules of Procedure has mentioned my name, at least one twenty times. Here, I'm ready even though it's not a small job because of my physical constitution to give Mr. Veselinović a poster with my character in full size. He can stick it in his study or anywhere, in his cabinet, so because he hates SNS, by darts, and shoots at that picture, better than he'll harass this National Assembly with pointless calls to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23545	I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Right to the replica of Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23547	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zoran Babic has resented me here because I have a few books in front of me that I read and that I use in discussions in our National Assembly. And what books are here, dear gentlemen? A dictionary of Serbian language that has been found to be very useful to us here. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, and I have here, honourable gentlemen and Rules of Procedure of the Kingdom of SHS of 1922, gentlemen of honor. I have been reviewing and reading, and in Article 43 of that Rules of Procedure, it is forbidden to read the words. And Mr. Babic instead of following this tradition of ours, he's here tasking his people's MPs to write essays and then read two minutes, three minutes, five minutes, each, and in 1922 it was forbidden, gentlemen, according to the Rules of Procedure. We wouldn't have found out if we weren't reading books, dear gentlemen, and here's what else he's saying here, Mr. Arsic. He says – at a session on 24 May 1919, Vice President Ivan Ribar, it is something like you today, Mr Arsic, Vice-President of the Assembly, says – Mr MP, here as if he is speaking to Mr Babic, not allowed to read, but if you wanted to read, you should have suggested this earlier to the Bureau, that the presidency should say what to do, whether it should be read or not. Reading before, and here's the discussion and debate, gentlemen. The other thing, says Mr. Babic, here are two minutes to go to the book, and I don't regret Mr. Arsic, which these two minutes also went to one of the books standing here in front of me, and to use in the replica Mr. Babic on a subject concerning education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23548	My colleague Pavicevic, since you called me by name and last name, I will not rephrase it, but it is obvious that while we live in the 21st century, some people continue to act as though we were in the 19th or 20th century. You can figure it out yourself. I know who I mean. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23549	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a member of our 107th Rules of Procedure. I'm not going to hit the European Rules of Procedures, I'm not going to hit the Rules of Procedures of the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Montenegro, I'm not going to hit the rules of procedure of the Montenegrin Orthodox Church. So, I'm going to rely on our Rules of Procedure and I think the injured member is 107th and the dignity of the National Assembly. It is not academically contrived to insult the MPs, the MPs, because they express their statements in writing, or in a way that they read their speeches and thus gain adequate security. We're not all lecturers, we're not all climbing on the table as some lecturers at the Faculty of Political Sciences to make an impression on students, like bar singers who make impressions on guests, and I expect that because of the violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, you may in future warn a fellow member of the opposition party, and dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens, you can see the difference between educated and smart at the outset of my previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23550	I agree with your discussion a lot, but you must know that Mr. Pavicevic is a professor, a scientific worker who tries to deal with politics and then reacts in a completely different way than we do. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23551	What's the difference between 1922 and 2015 is a lot. A distance of ninety-three, ninety-four years, but also another state. What Mr Pavicevic was called on earlier is the Kingdom State, or the Assembly of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. I least expected Mr. Pavicevic to take out a stenogram from the Cetinje Assembly, so let's see what the experiences are like, what is said here. I think because of the roots and origins of Mr Pavicevic, they will find much better arguments in these stenograms, not in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. This is the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where we work and operate according to the rules defined by the Rules of Procedure on Labour. And I will insult Mr Pavicevic, and I know that I will reach out to him, to ask him, at least you don't insult the MPs, don't insult your colleagues and colleagues who, as you say, write essays, and I say they are doing the work of the MP who is entrusted to him, because it's better that they prepare themselves, that they read with legal proposals and arguments what they have written, than they will, unlike some MPs, and I don't mean a respected colleague from Nis, I'm very concerned, because I've blasphemed here, and I don't mean really, respect and discipline and commitment to work, but it's better than some MPs who are going to be led by political hatred here, because I'm going to say everything and everything. Therefore, SNS MPs are doing their job responsibly, all of them to one of the 136 MPs, we have been doing this for the last nine months since April 27th, that is, since 16 April when this Assembly was established, and that is how we will do it until the end. I am grateful to my colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group for their commitment to the job. You can see how many MPs are here, and you can see how far ahead you are, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23552	Thank you, colleague Granny. The People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very sorry that we are here today and we have learned that the practice of parliamentaryism 100 years ago in some parts was better than today's parliamentary practice in our country is respected gentlemen. In the 1922 Rules of Procedure, there were non-parliamentary terms, and Mr Babic, here today tells us that he will not deal with it, it shifts to some other organs to the college, and I tell you in 1922 some things were much better arranged than they are today. Another thing, I see there's one conflict here on a scientific basis in the SNS. Mr. Martinovic, today and on the Committee for Education, says that the assessment of the credibility of work can only be given by a man who has acquired a doctoral scientific calling, and Mr. Orlic today says not to. Well, make a deal, gentlemen. Mr. Babic, are you the head of that parliamentary group? Get involved in that science-based conflict in the SNS to get rid of respected gentlemen. There's one more thing, I noticed, that Mr. Babic occasionally reports cartoons from my biography. It seems to me that Mr. Babic is interested in preparing some contributions to my biography, but dear gentlemen, I see Mr. Babic knows where I was born, where I am engaged, and what sport, what I read, etc. Please, I understand this the next way. Mr. Babic is looking for a kind of blessing to do my biography and we have in our history one Vladimir Dedier, who worked on preparing Joseph Broz Tito's biography, wrote letters. Can I do that? Tito answers – yes. Mr. Babic, I give you the first ton of new contributions to Joseph Broz Tito's biography. Yes, if you're dealing with the biographical traits of some MPs, you're learning from the best respected Mr. Babic. Here, one copy here, one less book for me, but from today on, it's yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23554	Thank you. So, colleague Pavicevic, you're giving that biography written by Didier, that Zoran Babic studied to write your biography, as Didier wrote the biography for Josip Broz. That's how I understood it. Right to the replica, you have challenged two replicas, colleagues Babic and colleagues from Martinovic. Three replicas, then we'll go in a row. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23555	Woe to men who are ashamed of their roots and woe to men who flee from their roots, and woe to those who find it difficult to tell them where they were born. I am a Serb from Lipova near Vrnjaka Banja, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, the Shumadinac, whatever it is I will proudly speak at any world destination. The proud heir of David Elijah the peasant, the Trifun's father, a good man, who unfortunately hasn't been with us for eleven years. And I'll never be ashamed of that. While you, Mr Pavicevic, are dealing with the team, as you say, with divisions in the SNS, today's research published has shown that the SNS, in addition to all the difficult measures that we are under obligation and that we have to implement because of your irresponsible and poor policy, remains with a stable support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of almost 50%. When I read those researches, I was simply surprised and worried that there was no New Party research. Where's the New Party? And then I'm with my colleagues and my fellow MPs, and I thank them for giving me the answer, and I understand why there's no New Party. They say -- colleague Babić, here are research in percentages, those parties that have support in promis, they're not on that list. Those parties that are in a statistical error, they're not in the research. I am very glad that Mr Pavicevic raised the question of dictionaries and good expressions in the National Assembly. That's another reason for a real break-up in the New Party. And I am very pleased and interested in how Mr Pavicevic will refer to the term – the cattle one, which was honored by Zoran Zivkovic, and whether he will put it on that list of bad expressions or those expressions that are in line with academic or congregation integrity and which should be used in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia or not, or whether it will be the first one on that list to be filled out not in such a way as some commission has prescribed or not, but in a way that has been used, and has suffered punishment and a bad suit both in public and in the National Assembly itself is placed on that list, please inform yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23556	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would certainly have skipped it, considering it a failed attempt to be funny, if it hadn't been for the same nature as the one I came to the meeting a few minutes ago, and it was about addressing you directly and mentioning some party discipline in conducting the session. I think it's the last one and that's the problem of the same nature, and that's the carelessness. Whoever followed what I said about commenting on the text published on the website "The Sandstones", could hear well if he looked out. I said a man doesn't have to do scientific work to give his judgment on the text on the Sandstone site, not his own judgment on some scientific work. The text on the "Sands" site is not a scientific paper. That's one attitude, you've heard in my opinion, as well as how valuable. As for the first thing that I think is more important, I wanted to tell you, Mr. Chairman, that I fully understand all the tolerance and patience that you demonstrate, but that I still urge us to be more concrete when it comes to having the MP come forward and because he didn't listen, he didn't understand, or he decided to present, so he didn't understand, he brings things out here that make things more complicated after all, causing replicas and a new disturbance to the session, even when he's allowed, and you tolerate it, so I noticed, in the end, you're reacting, not wanting to interrupt. You can see that he does not respect it himself, but on the contrary, insulting you with comments about some party discipline, further insults all other colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23558	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23559	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, there is no conflict and there is no reflection between my distinguished colleague Orlic and me. So, we have fully agreed views on fiction over the alleged plagiarism of Mr. Neboja Stefanovic, and on this issue there is no difference. But, Mr. Pavicevic, something much more important. When you quote and when you refer to the 1922 Rules of Procedure, you must know that the state was then called the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. Does this mean that you are in favor of the monarchy of this state, that the state ceases to be a republic and becomes a kingdom? Are you in favour of the king in Serbia being your party boss, Zoran Zivkovic, since he was previously Prime Minister and is now probably missing a king in his biography? If you are willing to crown him king, crown him, but believe me, you have no support in the people for it. As for the book that you wanted to give or which you will give to my colleague and friend Zoran Babiæ, when you mention books and when you are already calling for academic honesty, then be truthful until the end. Vladimir Dedijer didn't first write "New articles for the biography of Josip Broz Tito", but first he wrote "The attachments to the biography of Josip Broz Tito" and what you said asked Tito for permission while Tito was alive, and "The new contributions to the biography of Josip Broz Tito" were published, correct me, Mr Pavicevic, here I now have no book in front of me, I am now reading nothing, I am talking from my head, published by the publishing house "Otok Kersovani" from Rijeka 1981 when Tito died. Vladimir Dedier in “New Biograph Contributions for Joseph Broz Tito” completely revised views on Joseph Broz Tito from the time Joseph Broz was alive. Don't go that way and say one thing when you're in power and another when you're in opposition. It's one thing when someone's alive and another when someone's not alive, that's not a good time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23560	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Right to the replica of Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23561	Ladies and gentlemen, when was I in power? When Mr. Arsic, Mr. Martinovic, Granny, Orlic and the other gentlemen? Never, but I'm about to come to power, and that will be a change, gentlemen, of course. As for Dediera, here's to tell you, in 1978 from the president's office, of course, these data are correct, but he says, "Dear Comrade Dedeyer, I received your letter from April 7th, and with its contents I met the other President Tito. Of course, the other president doesn't mind publishing the third edition of the "Biography Annex", but he noted that the opportunity should be used to remove and correct some of the inaccuracies that are contained in the book. Of course, these are “New attachments to biography, ” but be careful, it’s a trotomical edition. Most of all, as Mr. Babic wants to do my biography, I have blessed Mr. Babic to continue to do business, to read all three volumes, but to begin with, Mr. Martinovic. When he reads the first, I bring the second team, then the third, and, of course, Mr. Babic to continue to deal and to freely announce who I am, from where I am, what I am. I'm a blessing for that, dear gentlemen. Another thing, when I say conflict on a scientific basis, I don't know why it's being transferred to some political field. Science is full of conflicts, different interpretations. People approach by constantly proving something, and then checking again. What is the problem for Mr. Orlic to question what Mr. Martinovic says or does and vice versa, gentlemen, but of course the problem is if Mr. Babic has no insight or doesn't know the answer to what's going on between individual MPs, so when it comes to conflict on a scientific basis, but let's let that field develop, let's keep these disputes going, to call them that. If the term "conflict" is too strong, let's see how long these disputes take us, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23562	Comrade Babić, please, if Mr Pavicevic is a minister or Prime Minister, do his biography. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23563	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106, has been injured. The previous speaker means he can only talk about the agenda point. We are at the agenda point talking about selecting members of the National Council for Higher Education. All we've heard so far is the practical disabling of the agenda point and talking about how biographies are written both about Mr. Deder and Mr. Stefanovic, about the doctorate. It's obvious that there's one ignorance of the agenda at all. Let me tell you, this disrespect for the agenda has led to the simple citizens of Serbia thinking that this really high education has a problem, and if Mr. Pavicevic is still talking about this problem in one way that he is trying to dissuade everyone's work in this Assembly, everyone's doctorate, everyone's scientific work and does not allow each of us to give public opinion on any work, but only right is what Mr. Pavicevic and his party members think about someone's work, then it shows that Serbia will never be able to move forward. In particular, it will not be able to go in a commercial sense, because our diplomas should be in the function of economic development of the Assembly not only of Serbia, but of the Republic of Serbia at all. Therefore, the path that is harder to go is the one that we have all gained our diplomas in an extremely fair and correct way. A path that's easier to go is a path that you'll go out of anonymity and say nothing. Please, Mr. Chairman, let's really help all of us go on a more rare path, which we'll really have success in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23564	My colleague Tomic, I fully agree with you, but the provisions of Rules of Procedure 106 can be applied if the MP talks in principle, and this is about the replicas that we are forced to listen to for almost an hour or more. There's not much I can do to help. The right to replica is still in the hands of Zoran Babic and Aleksandar Martinovic and we end up with a circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23565	Except that a little while ago, and it was very well elaborated by my esteemed colleague Mr. Martinovic, one of Mr. Pavicevic's needs, to change the constitutional arrangement and to declare Mr. Zivkovic a monarch, I see that he has now set a role for himself. There are various roles in court, but no, this role is the role of a bishop or a patriarch, because I see it gives blessings, so that kind of blessing I think is related to a church and not to any of us as individuals. What I would like to say, and by doing so, I would like to join the appeal of my distinguished colleague Tomic to introduce this debate on the very point of the agenda, which is that my colleague Pavicevic is so far from the government, even those in the shadows, as far away as he is from the front and the front of the book he holds, as far away as he is from Josip Broz Tito. That's how far Mr. Pavicevic is from power. What I would have told him, as I would have told some other colleagues who didn't take me so seriously, but now they've already put a finger on his forehead, and that, Mr. Pavicevic, is the first 20 years in the opposition hard, and then you'll get used to it, don't worry, be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23566	Thank you. Right to the replica of Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't realize until the end which book Mr. Pavicevic wanted to present to Mr. Babić, did the contributions to the biography of Josip Broz Tito, I am a little older man, Mr. Pavicevic, so I don't see the distance you show, or the new contributions to the biography of Josip Broz Tito, did that book when Tito was alive or that book when Tito died? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: When he died. All right. I want to say one more serious thing. You, Mr. Pavicevic, have double standards, and now I'm going to say why. You are one of the signatories of an appeal for the protection of the rights of a former Belgrade Faculty of Security, which was written by Security 1 and 2. I don't want to mention her name, the lady's age, you know who she's talking about. Among other things, the book states that Serbs, I quote, have conducted sexual terrorism in BiH for ethnic cleansing and against the book has reacted to the Alliance of Republika Srpska and the World Organisation of Roma, and you have signed an appeal against the Senate of Belgrade University's decision not to extend its working age for another three years, which allows the Law on Higher Education in exceptional situations. One more thing, this same lady, according to the information I have, and you correct me if I'm wrong, has written an act called the Hrestomatium of War, in which you have a splendor on one side of the KLA, and on the other hand, a mutilation of the struggle of the Serbian people in Krajina and Republika Srpska so that it turns out that the same lady abroad is being sued for plagiarism, because it has been proven that there are parts of the books of other authors that are listed without any quotes. You are now defending one such person, and here you pretend to be academically decent and calling candidates for members of the National Council for Higher Education why they did not step on your side to attack Nebojsa Stefanovic or, in other words, why they did not join you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23568	I thank Mr. Martinovic. Since on the lists of parliamentary groups no longer registered for the word... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President and Chairman of Mr. Arsic, there are three things I want to say here now. First thing, I will always sign an appeal seeking to protect the academic integrity of members and members of the academic community in our country and beyond. I will always sign that, as I will always sign an appeal seeking the protection of the principles of academic integrity within the academic community. That's one thing. The second thing, Mr. Babic resents here to the MPs, which may sometimes be a different interpretation of the meaning of some words, and I did not properly interpret the meaning of the word blessing. Here you go, gentlemen, the dictionary. Is it any use to us here? It's good for us, dear gentlemen. What does blessing mean? I have blessed Mr. Babic to do my biography freely, to investigate, to write, to betray, if necessary, a tromonic edition, even in 20 years, Mr. Babic. Blessings – expressing desire for someone's well-being, respected gentlemen or, other meaning, approval, consent, consent that Mr Babic is now engaged in this kind of research work. What's the problem, gentlemen? Is this a Serbian dictionary, gentlemen? Yes, it is. Is Matica a Serbian publisher? Is this authentic? Well, it's authentic, gentlemen. As for parliamentary practice from the period when we had the monarchy, it is part of our parliamentary practice, gentlemen. We had a parliamentary monarchy here, and Kant, Mr. Martinovic, for example, so let's interpret it a little bit, and we're investigating it, he said -- the best republic is a parliamentary monarchy. What does that mean now? Let's interpret, let's watch. It's part of our history, part of our practice and part of our tradition, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23570	Mr. Pavicevic, you asked me to give you my word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm going to read you what it says in that Rules of Procedure. A warning is given to a MP who approached a speaker without the president's permission, who speaks before asking, who, in addition to warning the National Assembly president, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. If a speaker is interrupted directly speaking, if he uses curses and expressions, if he brings up facts, if other proceedings violate the order of the sitting. Now there is one part of the provision concerning the infringement of the Rules of Procedure - that if the MP uses the violation of the Rules of Procedure by replicating it, he is given a reminder, and the time he has spent advertising the Rules of Procedure is taken away from the time of his constituency, which you do not have. This leads me to the conclusion, Mr Pavicevic, that you have abused the Institute of Advertising of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because you have not even mentioned the member to whom the breach of the Rules of Procedure applies, and I am asking you more, since for more than an hour the session has been held between replicas or injuries of the Rules of Procedure, that we finally put a point on this and end the session. National MP Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23571	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the President of the National Assembly, you have said the part that I wish to advertise, but to be precise, Article 103, which says - the President of the National Assembly is obliged to impose on a national MP who does not comply with the provisions laid down in Article 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this article, and this is about the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, and in another obvious way abuses the rights provided for in this article, give the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111. Rules of Procedure. I respect that you did not give your colleagues the warning measure. It is your right to be tolerated, but it is also the right for citizens to be fully informed about this. I think Mr. Pavicevic gave a lecture here instead of hurting the Rules of Procedure. As far as this lecture is concerned, I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, because the lecture on morality, on communism, and I don't know what, is being held by a man who was a party colleague of Jova Kapicic, founder of the famous camp on the naked island, and I think that, together with the same man who founded the camp, he violated the dignity of the National Assembly because he quotes various communist books, etc. I think they might be quoting the pieces and the misdemeanors of Jova Kapičić in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23572	This advertising of your Rules of Procedure will be considered more like your wish to use the institutes provided for in Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, not the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with what Mr Pavicevic said, that the parliamentary monarchy is part of Serbia's historical and political tradition, and that's true. But I asked, Mr Pavicevic, for an answer from you -- do you advocate that Serbia be a republic or a monarchy? I didn't get an answer to that question, but it doesn't matter now. What's more important, these are your double standards. You said in the discussion - as soon as there was a suspicion that someone had plagiarized their scientific work, they should resign, so you said - why didn't Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic do it? Then you sign the appeal, you too, Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic, sign an appeal in defense of a former professor of the Faculty of Security, against which a court case is being conducted, to be completely polite, on suspicion that in her book "Hrestomatium of War", she has taken over pages and pages of books of other authors without quote signs. Now I don't understand how in the case of Heavenly Stefanovic, you have one standard, and in the case of this lady, who said that we are a Serb genocide people, which is why she stood up, among other things, to the World Organisation of Roma, you believe there is a need to sign an appeal in her defense? So, if you really advocate the principle of academic honesty, don't have a double measure, so the one who's your political insolent, hit him with your strength, and when someone's political on your side, then defend him even though he's being prosecuted abroad for taking over pages and pages from the books of foreign authors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23574	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23575	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I think it's time, after an hour and some replicas and talk about everything just not what's on the agenda of this session and this part of the agenda, I think it's time to get back to today's agenda. This is the proposal of members of the National High Education Council. I think that only fellow Orlic with all due attention has given what's important to know today when we're talking about the agenda point. If fellow MPs, or at least those who participated in the debate, had paid attention to all the allegations the colleague made, they would have understood the importance of the topic we are discussing today for the higher education of the Republic of Serbia in general. Namely, by quoting the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, the provisions relating to matters which are within the competence of the National Council on Higher Education, we can understand what all the National Council on Higher Education means in the structure of higher education and what its obligations are. I am saying this for reasons why higher education is very important for Serbia's present and future. I think all those MPs and others who talk about higher education are wrong in a way that speaks negatively about higher education. We have a very high quality education, unfortunately, I say, a far better quality education than some say about it and, unfortunately, a better quality higher education than we are in a situation to invest in the development of higher education. High education should not be considered only from the point of view of the fact that the Ministry provides 94% of salaries for all persons employed in education and science, because wages are not the only condition for higher education to be quality. There is a need for higher education to finance, and because of the economic situation, we are not in a position to do so to the extent necessary, in which higher education deserves it. I'd like to say one thing that is kind of accidentally left aside, which is that the problems of funding higher education date back to last decade, when in an unexplainable way colleges are denied the right to material costs. It was then objectively created a huge gap in the financing of higher education, which for years could not be replaced properly. If you take the fact that we are in the context of a global crisis, which earthquakes our country, then you can understand the importance of what is done in higher education, that despite the modest financial resources, such quality results are achieved. Why do I say quality results? It should not be forgotten that in previous times, even at the time of the National Council for Higher Education mandated, because we will now choose a new one, Belgrade University has entered a list of 500 best in the world based on the Shanghai list, and then among 400. It cannot be ignored that the National Council for Higher Education and how it has had its share in achieving that goal. I, as someone who has done a number of years of work as a minister for education and later for science, cannot help but express my gratitude for all members of the National Council for Higher Education and Professor Srdjan Stankovic as president of the National Council, but also to all others for what they have done in the development and promotion of higher education in the Republic of Serbia. I also owe great gratitude to the president of KONUS, Professor Branko Kovacevic, on what I would say to be his unifying function, because at that time he managed to direct all universities in Serbia, both private and stately, towards one goal, to make high education as high-quality, of course, as well as the presidents of the Commission for Accreditation and Quality Verification, both Professor Arsenijević and Professor Vujic. I'm saying this because if it wasn't for them, of course, both colleges and scientific institutes, all those who are part of the research and higher education system, there would be no possibility of our university being among the 400 best in the world. Be careful, from more than 22,000 universities, Belgrade University in modest financing conditions, to reach such a high place, it is absolutely something to be respected. Not to mention the individual results some colleges have achieved. Here's a report today in the paper on the success of law school. Not to mention FON, which with its case studies is among the best in the world, Faculty of Engineering, Electrical, Civil Engineering, means a lot of colleges in the education system of the Republic of Serbia that have achieved excellent results. I think we should stop wasting our higher education, not saying it's all honey and milk. Far from that, there are cases, there are examples that are not good, which are not something to be commended for. On the contrary, it should be condemned, eliminated, but within a system that has over 250,000 students and a huge number of higher education institutions, such things happen. It is the work of the Ministry and the higher education institutions and all others who are in the higher education system to make these negative phenomena, condemnation, rooted out and commit themselves to higher education. As for the jobs done by the National Council for Higher Education, counterpart Orlic detailed them. I can only mention, or point out that the needs of Serbia's future require that all those things that are part of the competence of the National Council for Higher Education should be compared, how international standards in higher education, international criteria, the state of our academic community, as well as the needs of the Republic of Serbia. There is already a European space for higher education in Europe. It is made up of 49 countries, 28 EU members, and those who are not. All efforts are made to create their educational space as high as possible and to be part of the European Education Area. There's no one talking about Bologna anymore. No one's even talking about Bologna. Everyone makes every effort to bring these criteria into line with what standards are in the area of higher education and to have as high education as possible. I think the future National High Education Council is also one of the main things. I did not accidentally say to bring them into line with the opportunities of our academic community and the needs of the Republic of Serbia, because when you consider the demographic situation of Serbia, we are already among the five oldest countries in Europe, among the 10 in the world, it is quite logical to conclude that Serbia's future lies in economic terms only in quality education and higher productivity, greater quality of work. It is therefore to conclude the importance of higher education. If I mention another piece of information that Professor Ivan Ivić pointed out a few years ago, that 62,000 children were born in 2011, and that the number of those who can enroll in the first year of the study is about the same, then you can think that it will only be, I would say, a struggle about the status of certain high school institutions and their need to enroll someone in the first year of the study. I'm saying this for a reason because when it comes to higher education, many of our high-school colleagues speak of higher education from the point of view of interest, whether interests are economical or political. It would be best if it were educational and scientific interests, the interests of the Republic of Serbia, because then many examples, cited for higher education, would eventually be demystified. My colleagues Ljubisa Stoimirovic and academician Stojadinovic mentioned things about Konus. Conus is a promoter and it is a pity that he did not comply with the provisions that say more candidates can be proposed than the number Conus chooses. You've seen things that are both about structure and representation. It's something that's a fact right now. The National Assembly will, of course, vote its response to Conus’ position, as well as other promoters. I think all the jobs and proposals were done in time and there will be no negative consequences in the area of higher education, as could be heard from some fellow Members of Parliament. So, respected colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to support the proposals given to the National Assembly for decision-making. I also believe that, in the future, we must insist that the National Assembly gets more candidates than the number elected, because then it will be a right choice, not just a confirmation and we will be in a situation, unless it really leads to, that there is a proper representation from scientific areas, that the National Assembly will be one, if I may say so, a corrective factor in this business that is coming to us. At the very end, given that I am also a member of the Committee, I cannot help but comment, I apologize to the president for coming out of the subject of the agenda with a few sentences, constantly quoting the session of the National Assembly of Serbia when talking about counterpart Nebojsa Stefanovic, about "Megatrand", about Professor Jovanovic, because in the same way, using the same argument used by some colleagues, I could say that it was proven that the session proved that there was an attack on both professional and personal and scientific integrity of fellow Stefanovic, also Professor Jovanovic, and particularly on "Megatrend", because there were absolutely certain interests. We need to be correct and, to each other and to the scientific public, to accept the assessments given by the competent scientific community and the academic community as relevant, whether we agree or not, because that's the only way we can take a step forward. There's a big job ahead of this National Council. A competition should be chosen, i.e. to select a new Commission for Accreditation and Quality Checks, where everyone will be able to report. There is a big deal because the job of accreditation and quality checks, such as the Commission's accreditation and quality checks, is waiting for all higher education institutions. Of course, it is important that the whole procedure be conducted properly. It needs to be eradicated, if that's what I can say, some things that were a thing of the past, that don't happen in the future. In the past, it has happened that the National Council did not communicate much with the Accreditation and Quality Check Commission of Higher Educational Institutions, although it is their working body. There was a parallelism. This should, in any case, be avoided in the future for higher education. Namely, as there are standards for the assessment of the quality of higher education institutions, there are standards for the assessment of the quality of academic programs, standards that are related to minimum conditions for the choice of calling. These are all standards made by the National Council for Higher Education, which are later checked and applied. You don't have to run from it. If we want quality higher education, we need to do what others do, to be part of the European space of higher education, to invest in higher education, to eliminate what is negatively. I repeat my personal appeal one more time, but I see that also my colleagues from the SNS agree with that, and so do many others. We don't need to talk negatively about our higher education, because it doesn't deserve that. Higher education or education at all is one of the rare areas or one of the areas where we stand very well in, if I may say, the order of the countries of the world. Others value us much more than we think of ourselves. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course, we will give support to this proposal in the voting day, because it is necessary as soon as possible, we will do so next week, that the National Council will continue its work and that the whole process related to improving higher education will be the subject of their work, and the learning will certainly have the support of both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and other bodies, and I hope our Committee, because simply higher education deserves it, and Serbia needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23576	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very end, I am pleased that we are closing this debate by dealing with the very subject on the agenda. So, a subject that I find indisputable to be of paramount importance to society as a whole. In this regard, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have expressed their support for the proposal for us to approach this issue in a decent manner and to support the proposed solutions for the selection of members of the National Council for Higher Education. In the end, I would briefly refer to the general conclusions that we all made together. I don't think there's room for reserves. We heard only once, and from only one MP, that there is a reserve on support to be presented to the proposed candidates. I'd like to comment on it for a little while at the very end. The reserve referred to the candidate's reaction to any of the candidates to two things. One question was the resolution coming from the direction of the European Parliament, where it is found or referred to some additional work and possibly the existence of a problem on the subject of the originality of works in our higher education. The second is public support they showed for the idea of academic honesty, right? As for the first one, and first of all this other thing, I have to realize that I don't see any sin of the proposed candidates in the fact that these things haven't been advertised. As much as I clearly consider them serious people, successful professionals, and one of the features of a serious man is not to be advertised on completely irrelevant issues. What is first and relevant is, unfortunately, in so many ways that it is not the first time, I fear the last time, I would like it to be, that some of the messages that we receive from our conversants from the world be dictated primarily by the personal dissatisfaction of some political actors here from Serbia, who want to cause political harm to the government in the form of those hated collateral damages, cause damage to the country as well. By complaining of something without any reason, they're trying to get through a message that's going to damage the government, and then they take and show something that's not good for our country either. I agree with counterpart Obradovic that a topic such as higher education of the Republic of Serbia is not a subject that deserves to be spoken in a negative tone. It's just not the point. It is so much worse when such a subject is treated in such a way that it harms its own country. As for supporting academic honesty, it certainly is not relevant, as much as a colleague Martinovic, does not exist as a formal structure, formal formation, nor a formal principle. It's paved with the desire to build someone's personal self-recognition above all, but a very pale idea stands behind the whole story. The idea pales enough not to be supported by serious people like esteemed candidates, serious people who certainly know society, know the system of higher education and know our laws. They would never repeat the mistake they have been making in this room for months, but not only do they force colleagues who are using this syntagmic "academic honesty" intensively, not knowing that the issues of ethics are already regulated by our Law on Higher Education. If there is an opportunity for this law to be reviewed, they will find everything necessary on this subject in Article 55. Such serious people as respected candidates for members of the National Council will not be able to stand behind an idea that implies a proposal for a legal solution that is also very logical and legally pale. All in all, the argument on the subject of the reserve on the quality of these candidates, I think it's absolutely falling into the water and there's no reason to end any vote to the absolute support of all of us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-03-05-0.u23578	Thank you. Since no one's answering any more, I'm concluding a joint single search. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
