ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41326	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members of the People, your Excellency, Mr Davenport, I am opening the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I called for this special session to be addressed to the National Assembly by EU Commissioner for Neighbouring Policy and Enlargement Negotiations, Mr Johannes Han. I am honored to welcome Mr Johannes Han, and members of the European Union delegation attending this session, on behalf of the Members of Parliament and on behalf of myself. Now I ask Mr. Johannes Han to take his word and speak to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41327	Prime Minister, President of the Assembly, honourable MPs, it is my great honor to have the opportunity to address the Serbian Parliament. Once again, actually, as on stage, we have to repeat the text occasionally. Dear Presidents, ministers and ambassadors, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to thank you for welcoming me with applause. I usually get a round of applause after I leave parliament. Since I got a round of applause at first, I want to thank you for that little symbol. Being here is not an accident at this time, because next Monday, the European Union and Serbia will open the first two negotiating chapters, Chapter 32, Chapter 35 and Chapter 32. Chapter 32 is about financial control, and Chapter 35 refers to normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina's relations. The December 14th Intergovernmental Conference will mark the start of the essential part of the accession process and our accession process, which is the ultimate goal, and thus the idea of Serbia's prospects of joining the European family will no longer be just an idea, but a concrete and tangible goal. That is the result, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the result of our joint efforts and yours and our strong commitment. As the Commission's November 10th report estimated, Serbia has achieved great success on its way to the European Union. Let me highlight the intensive work to end action plans on the rule of law, on key agreements with Kosovo, as well as important steps taken to improve regional ties and strengthen relations with neighbouring countries. The Serbian government has also continued with ambitious economic and structural reforms, which I am confident will help create a more favourable business environment, restore growth, improve competitiveness and create new jobs. The first encouraging results can already be seen. I am impressed with both the positive and humane way that Serbia and its citizens have handled an unrecorded number of refugees and migrants, who have arrived in this country under difficult circumstances. We highly appreciate this, both the Member States and the EU, and we will support Serbia in facing this challenge, as we did after the flood last year. The above requires courage and effort and shows how capable Serbia is and is ready to achieve results. On our part, we also worked hard to support and motivate Serbia to pursue its strategic goal, EU membership. I remember my first visit to Serbia. It was a year ago as Commissioner for Enlargement Negotiations. On that occasion, I pointed out how committed I was to the European path of Serbia, and I meant it seriously. The upcoming intergovernmental conference will show that the EU fulfils its obligations once the countries make the necessary progress. You should take advantage of this opportune moment now. December 14th will mark the start of a process, and I am confident that these processes will continue, while at the same time enabling the fundamental implementation of the necessary reforms. What is needed now is the confirmation of commitments taken and a decisive continuation of reforms, especially in the area of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, freedom of expression that is unhindered from the EU's point of view and of the essential importance of the EU. Also, reforms in public administration are needed, a fight against discrimination and economic development and reform is needed. Equally important is further progress in normalising relations with Kosovo, which is crucial for further progress in accession negotiations. Serbia needs these reforms, not because of the EU, but because they can modernise Serbia and bring benefits to its citizens. The Serbian administration will be more efficient, Serbian citizens will have access to better public services, their children better education and better health care, the economy will grow by decisively continuing to develop in a more favourable environment in which the rules are transparent and where there is no room for corruption. Dear MPs, Member States are currently assessing Serbia's preparedness in all areas covered by EU law. In all these areas, I know that we can count on Serbia and that Serbia and its government will make sustainable progress in all areas. Serbia's parliament is a key factor in this process. This is where consensus on the most important issues of the process of European integration continues to be realized. I must particularly highlight the importance of achieving a broad party and public consensus on the next steps in the European integration process. This will ensure lasting reforms. This parliament is an institution that also provides a high degree of compliance with the EU's legal assets. I know that over the past year, you've received an impressive number of legal proposals and many have just arrived, which means you won't be unemployed. There is still a lot to be done before you, but it will be important to define enough time for all preparatory actions, in particular consultations with other factors, international partners and, of course, the Commission. This assembly is a forum in which reforms are considered, reviewed, discussed, but ultimately made decisions. In this respect, an emergency procedure should only be used in really urgent cases and in completely justified exceptions. It is essential to ensure respect for the rule of law and all inclusiveness of the accession process. Serbia's parliament should play a major role in overseeing the executive and overseeing effective implementation of reforms on the ground in close co-operation with independent regulatory bodies. Also, you are obliged to explain this process to the general public, the process of European integration is more concrete for everyone in Serbia. It is not only a reality for administration, civil society, business people, students, researchers, it becomes a reality for society in general and for all citizens in Serbia, as these reforms penetrate into an increasing number of different sectors and affect many aspects of everyday life. Another issue that is of paramount importance is regional co-operation and good relations with neighbours. In that sense, I want to establish the constructive commitment that Serbia is showing. The enlargement process should provide the region with a security foothold to build further stability. We simply cannot afford any setback in terms of disputed reforms or weakness or interruption of established regional ties. This brings me to the crucial element of regional co-operation, it's a program, a bonding agenda. And building and connecting transport and energy infrastructure is in the very essence of our efforts. The Vienna Summit and the overall Berlin process have created a positive momentum and helped countries in the region make significant progress. The commitments Serbia and other countries have made at the summit should now be fully implemented. They concern not only infrastructure investments, but also follow-up measures that will release their full potential as simple procedures at border crossings, interoperability and infrastructure maintenance plans. Serbia is also an important EU foreign political partner. We are impressed by Serbia's responsible OSCE presidency during 2015 and the successful organisation of last week's ministerial summit here in Belgrade. Dear Members, we have built a union and there is no reason why you should not applaud, it is indeed a great event. I have to say that actually this applause for employees who have done a lot and made a lot of effort, doing a lot of accounting, was really one big effort, another proof of the quality of your public administration. Thank you very much. I will return to my speech, honourable MPs, we have built a union consisting of 28 Member States, which has achieved an unrecorded degree of economic and political integration, a union that is primarily a place where peace and stability prevail, and the war has become unimaginable. As we celebrate the International Day of Human Rights, and we mark it today, let us not forget that the Union is based on common values, on democracy, on fundamental rights and on the rule of law. But stability whether it's political, economic or financial as a concept is a very fragile nature. We have suffered the worst financial and economic crisis since World War II. Our neighborhood from Ukraine to Syria, across the Middle East to North Africa, remains unstable. Many challenges are ahead of us from terrorism and migration to energy shortages. In a world where we depend more and more on each other, these challenges are not exclusively European. It is a global challenge that we must address together as the Union and together with you, with Serbia because European Serbia is part of our joint mission and should not be doubted about it. The entire European Union, i.e. its institutions and 28 Member States, are constantly supporting Serbia's European perspective. For this reason, we invest significantly in Serbia. The European Union provides the most assistance to Serbia with around 200m euros in assistance annually. Not counting the unremarkable 170 million that Europe provided after last year's dramatic floods, which I still remember clearly, we also provided direct financial and humanitarian assistance to Serbia during the inflow of refugees and co-operate closely with Serbian authorities on medium- and long-term assistance. The European Union is also Serbia's main partner in trade, investment and favourable loans. We also invest in Serbian youth. By the way, the best investment a society can make. More than 1,600 Serbian students will be users of various programmes by the end of 2015. I hope that this number will increase in the coming years because today's young generations are precisely the ones that will shape tomorrow's Europe. We have a lot of work to do, but I am convinced that together as partners and friends, we will be able to carry out the next steps without difficulty and soon open a new chapter in our common history and introduce Serbia where it belongs, into the European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41328	Once again, on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I thank Mr Johannes Han for his address today. I conclude the fifth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. (The session is closed at 11.40 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41329	The Republic of Serbia (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (Third Day of Work) 01 No 06-2/510-5 10 December 2015 (The session began at 12.00 hours). The session is chaired by Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41330	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 135 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for further work of the National Assembly. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need to start considering amendments to the laws we discussed yesterday in principle. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41331	Thank you, Your Honor. First, I ask you to explain why I did not get an answer within the legal period to the parliamentary question I asked about the return programme and the sustainable survival of the Bosniaks in the Municipality of Priboj. I must point out that the data I asked for on this parliamentary issue was of crucial importance for preparing a budget discussion behind the preparation of the budget amendments. As I said, neither did the government respect the 15 - day deadline to deliver an answer to that question, nor did the Assembly do anything to force the government to respect the law and to respect the deadlines. I also didn't get a notice on why Serbian national candidates are favoured in the prosecution, the court and the police in Novi Pazar and other Sanjay cities, although they are far less rated than Bosniaks, which further disrupts the unsettled structure in those institutions and insufficient representation of Bosniaks in them. That is why, in the past few years, we have on several occasions organised peaceful protests in Novi Pazar to draw attention to this, and today, as we can see, some have remembered before the elections that Bosniaks are not sufficiently represented in these state bodies. These are questions to await answers, and today I am asking Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Labour Aleksandr Vulin and outgoing Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic, as well as Chief of Staff Ljubisa Dikovic, for their inappropriate welcome, organised by the Hague-based convict General Lazarevic. It is a very dangerous message when the state summit organises such an inappropriate welcome for a man sentenced to 15 years in prison before The Hague for crimes against humanity, violations of laws and customs of war and other inhumane acts in Kosovo in 1999, with the aim of ethnic cleansing. Despite General Lazarevic's knowledge of war crimes by his units and his troops, he unequivocally supported them. The formations under his command were responsible for mass ethnic cleansing, torture, arson and other crimes committed in 1999, including in Bosniak Republic of Kosovo, Mitrovica, which led to systematic cleansing, ethnic cleansing of the Albanian, Bosniak and other non-Serb population. The armed formations for which General Lazarevic was responsible, on 29 April 1999, in the village of Bosnjačka Mahala in Kosovo Mitrovica, burned down the family home of then federal envoy Dr Sulejman Ugljanin. With all this in mind, I'm interested in the answer of the Prime Minister who authorized these ministers or ordered the departure of this shameful welcome, that their state-level functions enlarge crimes and criminals? Also, I request an explanation from the president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal, Rasim Ljajic, to explain who asked for this Hague convict to be brought in, and who approved the use of a government plane financed by the money of all citizens, including Bosniaks and Albanians? Why is Rasim Ljajic hiding from this disgrace today? Finally, I ask what message is sent to Albanians and Bosniaks by the Government and its ministers, when in such an inappropriate way the man is welcomed by the man convicted of the most serious crimes against the two peoples and how does this people believe in the army and the state of which the state summit welcomes those who committed, or approve of the crimes against them? People's MPs are banging on MP benches. ) Whether these ministers and chief of staff admire Lazarevic in their private time, and perhaps even Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic, this is their moral problem... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41332	Thank you, MP, it's been a while. (National MP Enis Imamovic throws out of place. ) It is legal and legitimate, we saw it in the British Parliament, and we want to be like other countries of Europe. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41333	Madam President, distinguished folk representatives, respected citizens of Serbia, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the current problem concerning the achieved and unmistakable obligations of social enterprises under the judgments made for the work relationship claims. In fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to form a working group to analyse the situation in connection with the execution of the European Court of Human Rights rulings. The action plan, adopted by the working group and adopted by the government on 14 April 2011, envisioned appropriate measures, as well as the adoption of appropriate laws. Since the Republic of Serbia does not have a single and relevant record of the executive judicial rulings for a claim from a working relationship that has not been settled, the working group has proposed to the Government the adoption of a regulation on the recording of the outstanding obligations of social enterprises following the execution of the labour claim rulings, which would establish the total obligation, as the basis for the proposed rules and for their reconciliation. The subject matter of the registration under the regulation arrived unsettled obligations on 31 December 2011 which has a social enterprise, according to a ruling on labour claims, which was sent by the executive by 30 June 2011, and covers the decided principal, interest account according to the judgment and the costs of the proceedings. After the registration was made, it is concerned that this problem will be resolved until 25 June 2015, when the Government of the Republic of Serbia decided to amend the Decision on the Education of the Working Group to prepare the rules to regulate the way the achieved and unmistakable obligations of social enterprises under the executive rulings to seek out a working relationship. The task of the working group is to carry out an analysis of the type of outstanding obligations of social enterprises, according to executive decisions, of demand from labour relations, to propose a way of determining the extent of obligations and possible ways of reconciliation of those obligations and to deliver and opinion based on the analyses and proposals and proposals, and to propose appropriate regulations to regulate the way in which unsettled obligations of social enterprises are to be governed by executive decisions for the request from the employment relationship. My question is, has the task force made up a report on its findings in relation to the tasks it has received? Two, did the Serbian government consider and make decisions based on the work group's report? And under three, when will their claims be paid to the workers? The second question concerns the repetition of the questions I asked last and before and before, and it is referred to the Prime Minister and Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic - when will the railway line be moved from the town of Nis, from the city centre? Since I received an unmistakable response from the ministry, I reiterated the question last time, I didn't get any answer, please, Madam Chairman, to insist that I get a valid answer. So, when will the railroad be moved from the city of Nis? The second question, if you do not remove the railway, is it true that certain officials from the Serbian railways will be temporarily electrified? I'm asking you to answer that. I'm asking the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, the third question. I ask- when will the citizens of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia hear what is the plan for the economic and economic development of Nis, the south and the southeast of Serbia? What you promised in the pre-election campaign in 2014 and 2012 is that the city of Nis will be a city with new jobs, major boulevards, new jobs and new investments. Since then, since you took power in the town of Nis, the city of Nis has had 365 companies less than it was in 2012 and 201 entrepreneurs are less than they were in 2012. We've lived to be cut off by electricity due to unpaid street lighting bills. We've experienced that we don't have anyone to replace the lights on street lighting, so there's half the city in the dark. We've experienced our schools being blocked. We've experienced public enterprises being blocked. So I ask you, what is the development plan for the city of Nis, the economic plan for the development of the city of Nis, the south and southeast of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41334	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41335	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly the Prime Minister-in-Office, Mr Loncar -- how did we say that the waiting lists problem for next 2016 would be solved if we had the information that five billion less are foreseen in the budget for the next year? How can we solve waiting lists, which may be a burning and biggest problem when it comes to citizens of Serbia who need to be treated if they get sick? How are we gonna solve this if these hospitals just paint and paint? We have repeatedly suggested that it is not enough just to paint on that it is not enough just to paint hospitals in Serbia. If you paint them and renovate them, it does not mean that we have solved the health problem in Serbia, which is a burning problem in the last few decades. The problem cannot be solved in a way that provides for less subsidies to health care and, above all, when it comes to the health care sector, and that it refers to those who clean up those hospitals and those who guard those hospitals. If Minister Kori Udovicki can answer to me, as a folk MP – how is it possible to solve the problem of extra employees in the public sector in a casual way, how does Mrs Udovici often say, in such a way that they actually question the hygiene conditions in Serbia's hospitals? Why? Because it's a very important thing. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia says it will solve the problem in health care and that citizens will be able to treat themselves, and then, as a single measure, suggest that hospitals are being painted, and on the other hand they lower the hygiene conditions in those hospitals, then Serbian citizens have nothing to hope for, let alone think that the waiting lists will disappear at the end of 2016. I then ask Mr Vujovic – how does he think Serbian citizens survive 2016, since the budget that is now in the procedure in the Assembly and which is being debated in particular has so many shortcomings that primarily concern citizens who cannot get to work? There's no money for citizens looking for a job. There's no money for educators, for health workers. There is no money for the most talented in Serbia. There is no money for young talents in Serbia. There is no money for things that concern everyday life, but on the other hand, 126m euros are allocated to create new 30,000 party jobs in front of the SNS. On the other hand, there is money for fake investors, such as Beograd on Water, such as an announced investment in Novi Sad, such as many other fake investors and investments that are now announced to citizens for 2016 on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We ask the question of the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia – what is security in Serbia and at what level is the security of citizens, if we know that the Ministry of Interior and members of the Ministry of the Interior and the Army of the Republic of Serbia have so many miserable salaries that they risk their lives for a salary that they cannot survive from 1st to 30th of the month. We ask the Minister of Agriculture -- how is it possible that agriculture is Serbia's development chance, if we have a day-to-day protest of farmers in Serbia, who have been frozen for weeks, until the media announces it, and on the other hand we have less money for agriculture? On the other hand, how can there be money for failed public enterprises, whose directors have several hundred thousand dinars, some and several tens of thousands of euros in income? If all we know is that 94m euros in Petrochem is down, it exceeds the amount of pension savings. How is it possible that the government doesn't have the oldest citizens and has for its SNS personnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41336	Time. Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41337	Thank you. My question is asked by the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the issue is being raised to questions already raised by several MPs of our parliament. In particular, it is a threat to the revision of history, historical facts, of something that implies the rehabilitation of those movements, of individuals, of everything that represented the collaborationism of everything that was pasture in one great period of historical woes, of historical temptations not only for the Serbian people but for every free-loving people in Europe and in the world who fought against fascism. We are at a time when a legal regulation relating to rehabilitation enables those who are said to be rehabilitated to experience at the same time and something that every free-loving man could not accept, which is the reincarnation of evil. What's the point of these facts? Because the recently initiated rehabilitation is in line with the provisions of the Rehabilitation Act, which the government has not adopted, the process of legal rehabilitation of Milan Nedic. Not wanting to engage as either party or any of us individually in Milan Nedic's personality, we just want to point to his historical role in the historical context when the committed brutal crimes against first of all Jews, first of all Roma, all patriots, all patriots, all those who fought for freedom. It is logical that there is no way to rule out the possibility of that so-called. Legal rehabilitation has no reflection on historical rehabilitation. No one can convince us of anyone who deals with history from a professional point of view, the historical facts that historical rehabilitation can be protected, or that there is no contact with legal rehabilitation. These two categories, these two institutes are inescapable. The Socialist Party of Serbia as part of the coalition, as part of the government itself and the government itself, which has made a major contribution to the marking of all events, and particularly historic events related to the recent history of the fight against fascism, of course, that such actions and acts cannot be viewed with good intentions or can be seen as good-doing procedures. On the contrary, if actions against personalities such as Milan Nedic continue, then we will come out of the framework not only of ideological divisions that are natural divided, not only of divisions that are the product of political differences, but of what involves one natural approach and one logical thinking in relation to these historical facts, and we will enter into one great danger called the satisfaction of all those criminals, all those crimes, all those who represent evil for the entire people of the world, that is, all the populations that have been struck by fascism and all those ideologies that are similar to fascism. For this reason, we simply believe in the SPS, and I am convinced that this is also the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that the legal regulation governing the rehabilitation procedure must be amended, must be consistent with what means protecting moral values not only from the point of view of the personal, ethical code, not from the point of view of collective morality, but from the point of view of the protection of fundamental goods, fundamental human rights, protected by the Constitution and international conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41338	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, an authorised representative of the SNS, a National MP, Dr Darko Laketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41339	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, before I ask today's parliamentary question, I would first and foremost refer to one of the previous speakers who spoke, who asked one of the MPs about health care. In this regard, I have indeed felt a large dose of sarcasm for reasons why the government in Vojvodina today is being ruled by Pajtic, Bojan Pajtic and his people and health care in Vojvodina. So we talk about anything when the project, like Project Kamenica 2, is not only not almost finished today but is not even close to completion, and we are not talking about this project being followed by a number of controversial and different situations that are definitely not in line with the law. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice today's question. In fact, as a health worker and citizen of this country, I am interested in how the prices of medical equipment in Vojvodina may vary so much from the Republic of Serbia and from the market prices in Europe. I'm going to ask two questions today. First, for which an adequate introduction would have been made, seven years ago it started with the realization of the Kamenica 2 project, which was then worth around 18m euros according to projections. The project presented at the time would solve absolutely all the problems related to radio therapy in the AP Vojvodina area, until today it is not completed and unfortunately is neither close to realization. With this unwarranted delay, the most severe patients with malignancies cannot get as long-awaited rescue radiation therapy. That's why I'm asking state officials in two of the aforementioned Ministry of Justice, where the 18m euros went and what was spent on? How is it possible to demand additional borrowing of 15m euros over the sum of 18m when no report was submitted that the money had been spent before? Where's that money anyway? Is this about the big-time state money heist? I want an answer from both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Also, I demand that financial forensics determine where that money went. What's a square now, one square meter in Stone 2 when it's not finished yet? What forest did that one square come on? I'm also asking another question, and that's whether the public call for linear celerators in the same case fell, as far as I know, three times because the price of these apparatus was multiplely higher than market and projected perhaps to one bidder? I also ask the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to answer these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41340	Anyone else want to ask a question? (No) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Natasa Vukkovic and Mladen Grujic. Now we're gonna have a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41341	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President, and I will not ask for a vote on it. Article 107 of Item 1 has been injured – the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. The dignity of all women of the MPs has been injured to share the same room with a hater such as Dragan Sutanovac. The dignity of the National Assembly and of all MPs who respect women in relation to Dragan Sutanovac, who continues to address threats, which continues to insult the woman only because she is a member of the SNS, has been injured. Since when do ladies, women, in Serbia share in political belongings? What is this law that only Dragan Sutanovac knows, unfortunately still a national MP, unfortunately still a public figure, although it has more place in the pasture than in the National Assembly and in the public at all, that this is what it does and continues to insult, to continue to talk about someone who is an official of the National Assembly and is talking about it as being a rude and rude person, who is in a magical way employed in the Serbian Parliament? When Dragan Sutanovac referred to this word, he probably spoke of himself as a rude and rude man who called other colleagues "the garbage" and who, in a magical way, but not in his own name, ended up in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is unworthy for ladies, women in parliament to share the same room with a man who hates other women and who directs rude messages through social networks, who exudes certain statuses, which are directly directed against, not only colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, but also against all women in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41342	Now I'm going to set a break, because we're waiting for the government's opinion to come here and the committees to finish their work. You will have the government's opinion as soon as it comes into this building, set up on an e-parliament, but how we're going to work succesively, so pay attention only to the first group of amendments, as we agreed yesterday. So we're not going to work all night, so, yeah, the right word is not to use it for that kind of work, look at the first 20 amendments, roughly, because I can't decide on your behalf how long we're going to pay attention, maybe even one amendment. We have to wait for the government's opinion to come and the committees to finish the job. By my estimate, I'll see you at 5:00. You'll be on board anyway, so we'll keep working at 5:00. Thank you. [[after breaks]] I apologize to the MPs, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, and for constitutional matters, he's drawing up a few reports with his hand, and he's re-reading, so we're waiting. It's not me. It's not me, I got the report first, but now it's my last piece of information to fix the hand, so we're gonna have to wait a little longer. We'll certainly start and do as we planned. It's not me. I can't quite accept all the responsibility. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Pause. We're already on break, so we haven't started discussing the amendments, we'll wait for that. We have a report from the Finance Committee, it is neatly available on the e-parliament as it is, just to get an e-parliament or an "and" as someone likes to say the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I attended the vote, it was all over 15 minutes ago, now I've been informed that something's right with my hand, but we'll work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41345	Thank you. Dear President, I am advocating Rule 107, because I consider it a violation of dignity, because by entering one person, I cannot call it a gentleman or colleague, by entering the Parliament of Dragan Sutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41346	MPs, I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41347	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41348	I have to interrupt, and I have to have the same arches to everyone. The MPs are all equal, all 250 MPs. As you're on your way, I beg your respect, we're talking about each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41349	Here, I'll skip that part. I would like to, first of all, on behalf of all SNS women, on behalf of all women of the Serbian citizen, to strongly condemn yesterday's laziness, yesterday's likeness by Dragan Sutanovac's one statement on Twitter, which demeans women in the most brutal way. Women are citizens of Serbia, women will be offended today at any time when Dragan Sutanovac reports to defend the budget...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41350	MPs, we can't talk like that. I'm so sorry. Just tell me what I hurt Rule 107's Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41351	You insulted me for believing that Dragan Sutanovac must take responsibility today for what he said yesterday. He can't sit in the same room with us women, he can't insult us and sit around and defend the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41352	MPs, you know that I cannot determine which MP will come to parliament and which will not. I'm sorry, but I can't resign for someone else's sake. There's no replicating any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Members Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title of the 1st and 1st amendment in the same text. Do MPs want to talk about the draft budget bill? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41353	I took your question as a rhetorical question. Of course we want to talk to Mr. Pavicevic and I. The amendments to the budget table tabled by my colleague Pavicevic and I on behalf of both the New Party and the good part of Serbia's citizens are the character "to be deleted", because we believe that the draft budget given is irreparable, and that the best thing for the good of the state, people, women, men, children in Serbia is to withdraw this draft budget, to prepare for the next few days a serious draft budget. In that case, we could also forgive the delay, because on November 1st it was time to send text and speed up procedures, because from the coming text to the Assembly, to the debate on it, it would take 15 days, and it was only four or five days. But the methodological part isn't as important as the essence of the budget, which, as I already said in the principle debate, is not developmental, it's not social, it's wasteful, at the top of the government, not even for the clerks. It's a statistical and book-keeping manipulation that wouldn't have gone past that famous polygraph that's become a tool here, a machine, a stalemate for erasing biography as little as new as possible. This budget doesn't lead Serbia in the right direction. Some would say it's giving up reform, and I don't agree with them, because I don't think the reform process is even started. Such a budget will not do Serbia's citizens any good and should therefore be deleted, and there is, of course, a way to create conditions through temporary financing to bring a serious budget to the state of Serbia. What would be serious in that budget? First of all, that they're primary data, the fact that they need to be budgeted, that they're credible. That's the question of how much was the savings last year? Is that savings in the budget itself? Is this due to the depriving of transfers to local self-governments and to forcing public enterprises to put into the budget and what they haven't earned? It was necessary to determine exactly what number of employees in this country? How many people who work in the state service, at various levels, prepare adequate documents, strategies and tactical moves to reduce budget costs, and how to create conditions for future investment in this country through capital investments. I only use two minutes. I didn't want to use five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41354	You used it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41355	No, no, it's your fault. I didn't say I would.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41356	Please don't. Now I'm gonna beat the hell out of the messengers and yell.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41357	I don't want you to beat anything up. If you need these five minutes, it's no problem. If the budget were so good, as announced yesterday in a principle debate between the Prime Minister and the ministers present, then probably a good number of people in Serbia would have responded to my call, which I made yesterday morning, that all those satisfied with the policy led by the government of Aleksandar Vukic meet today in front of Serbia's parliament and show their enthusiasm with this policy. With my best efforts, I have not noticed any gatherings, not close, not directly in front of parliament, so it is obvious proof of what is going on, what is the position of Serbian citizens in relation to the budget that has been proposed to us. The budget has again cut off any possibility of serious financing of agriculture, farmers. They are prevented from getting subsidies they are used to, at least in that minimum amount, with a big story that this country, this government is committed to agriculture as a development chance for Serbia. It doesn't happen in life. They have even been denied freedom of movement through Serbia, as they are blocked on several highways across Vojvodina, none of their demands are heard. The situation in culture, the social situation, the money foreseen in the 2016 budget is disastrously small and you cannot make a minimum of social protection, let alone in culture anything that could be recorded in the next year as some cultural contribution or contribution to culture, and culture is, I know that it will be a foreign good part of colleagues, a very important thing in one country. Apparently, Alexander Vukic's government has defined that culture and agriculture are represented on national televisions, through Farm, Couples, Big Beards. What's the name of that show between the farms, when the farm goes, then Wolfie shows up, then the farm goes again, or is it all the same show? I don't know what that show is called, but generally this budget threatens the economic, social and other security of citizens in 2016, and on the other hand it dissipates the few investors, domestic and foreign, who are careless or well-intentioned to come to Serbia and make their business plans, their business ambitions, but this way, such a budget, a budget that would never pass that unfortunate polygraph, can't be a guarantee of any progress. We have next year's election year, at least on some levels, probably at all levels. This budget will be the best part of the opposition's campaign next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41358	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41359	I'm advertising a natural violation of article 107. You've been obliged to react, because it offends Parliament's dignity and deceives the entire public, we all cheat here when someone makes incredible claims about national television, especially reality. The owners of these realitys, sir, were some officials, even the president of the party with which you are in the coalition, and then those realitys were created. Therefore, do not deceive the public, no connection between Alexander Vukitch or anyone with reality. This is your product. That's what happened in your time. If someone's going to poison the people with that, that's exactly what you're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41360	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41361	I'd like to ask, as a resolution minister, just to draw your attention to one thing. You're commenting on commercial television programs here. They don't fall, specifically what you mentioned, under culture, or under information, but you said one thing that we all agree with, and that's how important culture is. However, you must also be aware that without a strong and stable economic base there is no systemic support for culture and cultural institutions. This is on the one hand, and therefore it is very important for this budget to be fully realistic and to enable stability. That's one thing. On the other hand, this government is equally aware that you have neither a successful society nor a successful economy without a strong culture. The economy needs culture, culture needs economics. Creative industries are what all of us need and how we get these two things together and how we're more successful at it, the reality theme will be the topic of home education, whether someone wants to watch them or not, but thank you for now mentioning what's important to culture, because that's precisely what's recognised through this budget. When you look at how much in the budget this year has been allocated for the very cultural production and programmes, that's about 400 million more than in the budget of the previous year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41362	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41363	Your amendment reads - Article 1 is deleted. Article 1 is the summary of this budget. Article 1 provides a summary of the income and income receipts of expenditure and expenditure. Of all the things you mentioned, in this article, there is, for agriculture, that threatens agriculture and gives nothing for agriculture, on page 3, point 1.4. – subsidies, second indent, agriculture gets 27,951,000,000, same as last year, one seven percent less. That doesn't make it a threat to agriculture. The information is credible. You should have read that part. The second part you said is about culture. Here there is a subsidy for public services, information – 4,000,000,000, and last year there was 9,000,000,000. The explanation was given yesterday. You're also wrong. Thirdly, if you're asking to delete the entire article 1, then you're asking to delete the entire budget, so there's no point in reporting in two minutes and talking about all the other members. That's all I'm warning you about. This isn't the first time you've done it, put it all away. If you put yourself on the first term, then withdraw these other amendments, because they have no meaning, neither logical nor legal, nor in this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41364	I will continue to give my word, but only one instruction to the ministers. Just two minutes, one minister. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Just a moment, don't shout, so we don't get into replicas. Ministers in the Rules of Procedure have the right to reply, as well as MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41365	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Ministers and the Honorable Guests, the Guests of the Ministry, I advertise the Honored Presidents of the National Assembly, Art. 171 to 177. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. It was necessary, I think, that you intervene when we, the MPs in our National Assembly, not only me and not only Mr. Zivkovic, Minister Vujovic now said that there is no point in submitting amendments to the remaining members of the bill when the amendment reads - deletes, we submit to the first member of the bill. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, I think it was necessary for you to tell Minister Vujovic, if he doesn't already know, that when a national MP feels that one bill is entirely bad, that this MP, Minister Vujovic, is legitimately entitled under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, based on the Law on the National Assembly and Honored Gentlemen, based on the Constitution of our Republic, to fight here through the amendment debate, Mr Vujovic, all day long, if necessary, all night long, so that the contents of a very bad bill may be actuated. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, you are the President of the National Assembly, I felt that your obligation was, once we have welcomed the people of the Government of RS and when they show one disrespect for the Assembly, as Minister Vujovic has now shown, that you have an obligation to react and to direct Mr Vujovic towards the precise and precisely defined members of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41366	Thank you. Did I break the Rules of Procedure? Do we vote? I don't think so. The minister delivered his opinion and did not exceed the border in communication. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: But it is respect for rules and dignity. I would love it if everyone thought about the dignity of the congregation. So, all of us together and to contribute a little bit to some better work of our Parliament. What order did the MPs report? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Just a moment to hear the messengers, not the replica. We can't always have a replica when the minister gives his answer to someone's exposure and we can't buy time. Zoran Babic. Is the amendment, excuse me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41367	Yeah, according to the amendment. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, all who are satisfied with Alexander Vukic's policies, went out a year and a half ago to the elections, voted and supported that policy, very transparently, publicly and more than 50% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You and such also said by going to the elections and showing the politics of these written or deleted amendments. So, as they didn't trust them at the time, they didn't believe them at all. Today, those people in Serbia who support the politics of Alexander Vukic and SNS respond to the SNS call, so as a few nights ago, in Uzic, when the theatre in Uzic was tight to receive all these people, so as many people sat there, and still so many people stood outside the National Theatre in Uzic, these are the people who came to show that they support Alexander Vukic's policy. As it was a few nights ago, at the Wolf's House of Culture in Loznica, people also gathered inside, but also outside to show that they support Alexander Vukic's reform policy, and thus showed a relationship to these deleted amendment promoters. Thus, a few days ago, only one local committee in Novi Sad, the SNS meat committee gathered more than 500 people showing support for the Prime Minister and SNS President, Mr Alexander Vukic. Thus, Novosadjani will fill the "Spens" on December 18th, showing the support Aleksandar Vukic and the politics of Aleksandar Vukic has in Vojvodina, as well as in all other parts of Serbia. When someone who was like a sticker was on a list, so in some small way entered the parliament door, so now they're trying to call on behalf of someone else what's different than trying to plagiarize Alexander Vukic's politics. It cannot be done, people in Serbia recognize those who are honest, those who are industrious, those who are honest, from those who are recycled, so that they forget all that and forget that policy created at the heart of this Assembly, which is washed by some "venish" in the meantime by some vineyards, so that they come into a situation now only through a new name, but old people and an even older policy. These old people and that old policy, I understand that it is not used to the budget, as the country's most important law, being referred to the assembly procedure in time, and when by 2012, and one budget, the draft budget entered the National Assembly, before the MPs before St Nicholas. Not once. When was one budget, as the most important law of a country, adopted before St. Nicholas by 2012,? Not once. The 2008 budget, adopted on 28 December 2007. For 2009, December 29, for 2010, excellent progress on December 21st. For 2011 and 2012, of course 29 December. When did one budget experience no rebalancing that year? Not once. You had not just one rebalancing, you had two rebalancing. You had your budgets for 2003, I'm sorry for 2004 that you adopted in June 2004. In June of the month, you adopted the budget for that year. Temporary funding, when temporary funding is lack of transparency, money is spent as best man, burazer, as you are used to and what your policy base is. Because of all this, the SNS is of course against the adoption of such an amendment and of course it is for the adoption of a single developmental, domestic budget for 2016. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41368	There's no replica. He wasn't talking to you. Here you go, Markovic. What do you say, Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41369	Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected ministers, respected presidents, I point to the violation of Members 106th and 107th members. Rules of Procedure. I understand that you may be tired, but the way this debate started is very worrying. With your colleague, you have not followed the previous exhibition at all, and for four, five minutes, your colleague Babic has talked about various topics, just not what the agenda is. For information, Mr. Granny, in Uzic the other night...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41370	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41371	Pass it to Mr....
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41372	I'll pass, but within the scope of the Rules of Procedure. Right? So you're saying I've hurt the Rules of Procedure and the Dot. Now sit down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41373	Can I explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41374	No, you explained, and you started talking to Granny. So the dignity of the Assembly is best paid back, we respect it by discussing the budget, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41375	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41376	Now I'm going to answer you, so it's over, in two minutes. So it took me a lot shorter to figure out what you wanted. On the amendment -- it is deleted, Article 1 can be said that you want to delete the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy until today, and MP Babic has made nothing of me or persuaded me to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Babic didn't make me or get me to hurt the Rules of Procedure. He's wasting his time on a parliamentary group or authorized as he pleases. You're right, but you don't have the right to do anything like that in the context of the Rules of Procedure's injuries. Answer the question, so answer what you want. Don't make me take my time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41377	The fact that Mr. Babic has called certain people here the prisms... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41378	Gordana Komic would have told you all a long time ago and I'm on her side, I can tell you, but I abstain because we're talking about the budget. So, thank you. - I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. You hurt, abuse, but I won't take your time because you only have 17 minutes of total discussion. I won't take your time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41379	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if their academic honesty allows me to explain the amendments, because many times, the professor of the Faculty of Political Sciences has challenged my smallness's right to defend the laws, to comment on them, to propose and comment on other people's amendments. If these philosophers, the score experts and the commas would allow, I would dare to comment on why their amendment should not be accepted. Not because they're our political opponents, not because they're our political inexperiences. We have already proven more than once that we are not persecuting, but that it is not worth winning, that it is sometimes more valuable to convince. We have repeatedly shown good will, and all we have been able to do since their amendments we have adopted. We adopted once, and when there was a point, a point, a comma, an excess, we adopted it by wanting to show them that we don't just want to share with political inexplicators, but to look for common solutions that are best for the citizens of Serbia. We showed that will despite their noise, shouting, and so forth. The scream expressed by a professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences has clearly shown a lack of argument on who and why their amendment should not be accepted, no matter what they think of us. We have voted more than once, not only accept their amendments, but also voted in favour of their amendments at the vote rather than what they voted for themselves. These are the reasons why I don't think we should waste time and show our political inexperiences that we're not cutting off their erasure of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41380	Ambassador Vladimir Pavicevic submitted this amendment in the same text and I give him my word. Seven minutes you said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers, Honored Ministers, Honored Guests and Guests of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 1. The draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2016, on which we have submitted an amendment – deleted, it is written that this law regulates income and income, expenditure and expenditure of the Republic of Serbia's 2016 budget, its implementation, the extent of the debt for the purpose of financing deficits and concrete projects and providing guarantees, public debt management, the use of donations, project loans, the use of revenue from the sale of goods and services of budgetary users and the rights and obligations of beneficiaries of budgetary resources. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment - it is deleted on Article 1 of this Bill proposal because we have recorded that there are seven key words, Minister Vujovic and ladies and gentlemen of Ministers and Ministers, most specifically described by the Government's draft budget for 2016. That's the next seven words, ladies and gentlemen -- uncreditability number one, non-transparency number two, arbitration number three, irresponsibility number four, abandonment of reform number five, six and seven, gentlemen. And I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear ministers and ministers, will argue this view of how we have come to these seven words, or five coins, through which the content of this draft budget can most accurately be described in our court. Here, let's start with the inaccessibility, that's where I call, of course, to the report of those people who, I think, are more invited than all of us here to give their opinion on this proposal, and these are the people who work in the Fiscal Council. Here is what they said, he said – there is considerable uncertainty about how much deficits will be achieved in 2016, inefficient implementation of public policies and one-time revenues can be reduced, but some unplanned commitments may also come to the charge, and the Fiscal Council adds, respected gentlemen, this is all settled under the non-creditary framework, says – the execution of public revenue and public expenditure in 2015 indicates serious weaknesses, in which, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in planning and implementation of budgets that can easily be repeated in 2016 and have a major impact on the level of deficits that will eventually be achieved. Dear gentlemen, it's called non-creditability. Do we want to adopt such a budget proposal here? Or, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we're talking about intransparency, just listen to this, I've been reading, consulting, precisely trying to get information here. The government of the Republic of Serbia predicted, based on the content of this draft budget, 404 positions that institutions spend funds on the so-called so-called. Contract-based services, gentlemen. Services based on a contract in 404 positions. Nowhere in the explanation is it clear and unequivocally said what services these services are, with which these services are indicated respected gentlemen, but it does not only scare us, but also the following – the total expenditures that the Government has foreseen on the basis of more than 17 billion dinars. Gentlemen, it's called nontransparentity. Next thing you know, gentlemen, arbitration. Here's to the case, Mr Vujovicu, the respected minister and respected minister, here are the arguments, so let's face our arguments here in one serious discussion of the most serious law we need to discuss during a calendar year, gentlemen. Arbitrarity, the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the content of this draft budget, is on its own discretionary decision, which means that the money splits as the government itself decides beyond parliament, past the public, has put more than 70 billion dinars, respected gentlemen. Seventy billion dinars for the arbitration decision past the Assembly, where the guest here and the EU was this morning, a member of the European Commission who invited all of us here on behalf of the EU to hold a little more to the Parliament's dignity, to focus a little more attention all of us here on the control function of the National Assembly, and in the draft budget, the arbitration of the Government for more than 70 billion dinars or respected gentlemen of irresponsibility, the fourth coin, the fourth category to which we describe this draft budget. For a country like Serbia here, I have to say one thing, according to the quality of the World Bank's infrastructure, we are ranked 68th in the world, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Babic, guests and guests from the ministry. We are in 68 places, and of the countries of Europe, Mrs Mihajlovic, Mr Verbic, Mr Udovic, Mr Antića, Lončar, Vujovic, Mr Ilic, only Moldova, Russia, Montenegro and BiH are behind us, respected gentlemen. Is it responsible for the actions of one Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Dear gentlemen, one more thing here to say - giving up on reforms is the key message of this draft budget. This budget makes it quite clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia with the Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, is at the helm, despite the continued listening to formal announcements that reforms are being made here, in reform of their strength, this budget, in which we find uncreditability, non-transparency, arbitration, irresponsibility, is a clear sign for me that it has given up absolutely what is called reform. Gentlemen, would you like to vote for such a budget? Are we going to be irresponsible, uncreditable, arbitrary, non-transparent government? I'll never vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41382	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41383	I don't have more than two minutes. I'll just read you something to show you that you're absolutely wrong and you're not reading what you're calling for. Page 114 of the proposed budget, so-called specialized services that you mention - 11.7, 46 billion, and below, it writes an explanation that anyone who is well-intentioned can read. It reads – the means of this appraisal are intended for the financing of the project programmes in accordance with Article. 10th and 98th. The Law on Scientific Action, the "Official Messenger" number and that, not to repeat. So these are the salaries of our scientist. How can you tell such untruths, when it says very in detail, refer to the “Official List ” and everything else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41384	Thank you. The word is from Vice President Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41385	I really don't know what budget you've been reading, this 2016 budget or maybe some budgets there in 2004, 2005 or 2006? So this budget for 2016 and what you said, to express myself as gently as I can towards you, is that nothing is right and that nothing is true of what you said. But let's go especially with the guest of honor who was here today in parliament and what the distinguished guest said about the work of this government, this reform government. Among other things, he said – The government has continued with ambitious, economic and structural reforms that will contribute to a better business environment, allow growth, greater competitiveness and new jobs. Encouragement results are already visible. That is what Hannes Han says for the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic. It is impressed by Serbia's human attitude towards refugees, etc. So what you said was wrong. Secondly, when you're talking about the state of the infrastructure, just to remind you, it means, 90 kilometers of the highway this year and 90 next year. That's all that hasn't been since the last few years. So I ask you to take another look at the budget title you're reading, whether it's for 2016 or if it's for some other years. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41386	Thank you. Three hours is total, and I'll take my time. I gave the instructions, I'll take the time. When they all wear out, we will end up, because this is how hard it is for me to keep warning. There's no one more right than you, don't worry about anything. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Replica because the minister said you didn't understand anything, right? To explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vujovic, here I am on one occasion, but Mr Vujovic said the most...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41388	No, you got the replica...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41389	Here, and Minister Mihajlovic to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41390	Just her.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41391	Mrs. Mihajlovic, but also Minister Vujovic to hear, Mrs. Gojkovic, we sat here this morning, I was sitting, listening and I spoke very precisely what Mr. Han said among other things. Mr. Han, our guest here in the Assembly this morning, Mrs. Mihajlovic, said the following – that much more, much better can be done in the fight against corruption, for example, in terms of freedom of expression. And by reading this budget, I would like to respond to both Mrs. Mihajlovic and Mr. Vujovic, be careful, gentlemen, to the 404 positions in the budget of the funds for services under contract. Let's show it's not in 404 positions, so let's accept Mr Vujovic's argument. Or, let me add another argument, it doesn't all matter in seven minutes, gentlemen, about this inaccessibility, non-transparency, irresponsibility, arbitration, abandonment of reform. Watch out for the next one. The expenditure for the cabinet of the Prime Minister from 20.8 million in 2015 is growing to 22.3 million in 2016 on the basis of services under contract, respected gentlemen. Mrs. Mihajlović, what is it, rather than arbitration, beyond Parliament and public control? Where is it in a modern democratic state that rests on the rule of law? Nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41392	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41393	Today he visited the Serbian parliament, but also our government was Mr. Han. Mr. Han has brought good news, and the good news is, unfortunately, the amendment's promoter, that the first chapters will be opened on December 14th, chapters 32 and 35, and that they will be opened by Aleksandar Vukic, the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and not only those chapters, but also chapters 23 and 24 of the following year, but also all other chapters. Unfortunately, the amendment's promoter, the government of Aleksandr Vukic opens chapters, and the government of Aleksandr Vukic will close those chapters, and the government of Aleksandar Vukic will introduce Serbia into the EU. I listened carefully to the amendment promoter and listened carefully to the Fiscal Council report read diagonally. You know, you don't read it the right way, you read it diagonally, so you pull out some things that suit you, so you compare grandmothers and frogs and come to some conclusion. But also our guest today, guest of our state, government and parliament, said that parliamentaryism is not defended by noise, shouting, untruths, waving, erasing, but by dialogue. The fiscal council is highly respected, I think there are very professional and responsible people sitting there, but the fiscal advice makes people of blood and flesh, people who can and can make mistakes. Their job is to make them more strict. Their job is to point us to certain challenges, but I'll show you on one case how the Fiscal Council misjudged some things. Also, since the amendment's proposer is dominantly calling for the Fiscal Council, but diagonally, throwing out all the positive ones, the 2015 budget envisioned a 191 billion dinar deficit, and the Fiscal Council has made the forecast that the deficit will be higher and will amount to 230 billion dinars for 2015. By contrast, Mr Vujovicu, in December 2015, the deficit amounts to almost half of what the Fiscal Council predicted. And it's a good thing they predicted worse, because that's how they made us engage extra to make this result. Next, economic growth. Forecasts under the Fiscal Council of Economic Growth for 2015 were down 0.5%, while the Fiscal Council estimated that it was directed whether it would be only that much and expected a bigger recession and that it went even to minus 1.5%. What this government of the Republic of Serbia has achieved by a host, responsible and energetic, transparent policy towards public finances, according to the economy, according to the citizens, is a growth of 0.8%, but I am sure that when it draws a line on December 31st, 2015, that growth will be one percent. However, what the amendment promoter did not want to read because it did not suit him, and when you read diagonally, then you throw out everything that is positive and much more positive, according to the Fiscal Council, a very positive macroeconomic indicator is the high growth of private investments in the second half of 2015. This is exactly what we wanted, to revive the private sector, because sustainable growth in the economy can now be achieved through an increased level of investment and export growth, and the second half of 2015 just points to such growth. So, the amendment promoter here waved, I guess, wanting to impress us with some expressions, and that the rise in the cost of the Prime Minister has increased by some, how much, perhaps a million dinars, means that it only works much more and plans to work much more in the next 2016. But I will also refer the amendments to the 2015 AP Vojvodina budget, so you will see that the travel expenses of the Prime Minister of the AP, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, are three times higher than those foreseen for the travels of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. Eight hundred million dinars were predicted by Bojan Pajtic for the media. Criminally. Where Bojan Pajtic travels, except he's campaigning or maybe he's gone to the South African Republic and there he's been giving some NGOs, Limpopo, thank you. Bojan Pajtic, a.k.a. Limpopo. Now, that's the perilous policy that, unfortunately, reflects that Vojvodina is at the beginning of our growth and at the beginning of our country, according to all indicators. So to say something is wrong, you have to prove it. You have no evidence in the professional public, at the Fiscal Council, at the IMF, in all economic indicators except your political blindness and political hatred.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41394	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. ( b) How is the replica? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Bojan Pajtic is mentioned. Do you have any idea how many times you've mentioned Alexander Wolfie? (Dragan Sutanovac, from the post: The President of the DS is mentioned in a peri-curative sense. But so far, no replica has been sought, but they are using time according to the amendments. Okay. Here you go. I apologize to you, MP, I know you will by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41395	I think it's perfectly natural that when a party president is mentioned, we get the right to replication. I'll tell you who it's about. It is about Bojan Pajtic, who received the Financial Times Award for the best investment region in Europe. Bojan Pajtic, as president of the province's government, received the award of a large and well-known magazine, the world's institutions and the fact that this happened apparently causes anxiety among colleagues from the ruling party. On the other hand, I have to say that if we talk about the budget in the way we speak, it's true that there are more than ten and a half million euros in hidden money in this budget that serves as a contract service, and that's exactly the money of those people who are employed past any competition in all ministries, agencies, and because of these people, some people who are employed in the government are going to get fired, and they're going to use the government's capital to work for party purposes. Mr. Vujovicu, what counterpart Pavicevic was saying is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41396	Ambassador, you asked for a replica to be presented to the previous MP. So don't go further and talk to everyone now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41397	But there was a story all over Mr. Babic on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41398	He was discussing the amendment, how can I explain it to you, I know it's half past seven, but let's concentrate. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: I will report for the amendment, here, I will apply for the amendment. Thank you. ) Thank you, by amendment. Thank you. Replica, please. Well, you replicated him, didn't you? [[(Dear Sutanovac, from the place, how do you figure? I didn't say one word to him.]] He didn't discuss the amendment. But you've replicated it. As I can explain, you were talking to him. It's hard for me to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41399	He mentioned a previous speaker in the context of...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41400	That's right. I understand. It's just someone pretending they don't understand. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ( ) Shall we respect the dignity of the congregation, sit down, not shout, and let me give you in order to talk about whatever you want, just some order, anas 20 cannot. I'm not gonna tell Zoran Babic to sit down, wave at me as much as you want to at the office, because I think this leads to chaos, that I give a word to one MP, and then we'll raise the books. No, the advantage is Zoran Babic on the line, and then you'll have to do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41401	Thank you, Madam President. One minute, I'm gonna ask you to move on. He mentioned the previous speaker and my name, but I'm a man, I'm used to that kind of talk, but again, of course, on behalf of women, on behalf of my two daughters, on behalf of my mother, on behalf of many women in Serbia, I'm going to raise my voice against the insults sent by the previous speaker through social networks, and I see that this continues in press statements day and day. Speaking of this party employment, you know, the anxiety in the former regime is evident, nervous -- because every attempt at criticism we have a clear answer. When they say - party employment, I am grateful to my colleagues and colleagues from the province's SNS parliament who, by analysing the budgets of the AP Vojvodina, from 2006 to 2015 showed and proved that for salaries and allowances to employees of one billion and 320 million dinars, as spent in 2006, we came to the situation that the Regional Government planned and spent two billion and 83 million dinars in the 2015 budget. Madam President, do you know how much this salary is? Do you know how many members of the family, godfathers, scurries, aunts, mistresses here and I don't know who not all the former regimes are, and now in Vojvodina, the employee of the burden and the cost of Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina? Do you know how many party staff are employed here? Do you know that these are thousands and thousands without any procedure, without any professional training?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41402	Thank you. It's been three minutes now. The messenger started from a minute, not a zero. Don't think I'm not following. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41403	The President-in-Office, I point to a violation of Article 108(1). In time, I raised my hand, showed my Rules of Procedure, asked for a word. That you didn't notice me consciously or unconsciously, that's another problem, but I had no intention of interrupting anyone. I think I just wanted to discuss things in that direction to respect the dignity of this congregation. So you have already missed the opportunity to warn Mr Babic and the other MPs several times. It is convenient for you and normal for him to say – a catchphrase, recycled MPs, etc. Here, Serbian citizens can't hear it coming from these benches on the other side, and in every way, the speech of Mr. Sutanovac is prevented. It's normal for you, too. You're okay with that. In the first hour of this debate, you thus support MPs from the other side. And we were forced to say, to express our view of everything that happens here at the session. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Are you all from Užica like this? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Here, they get us in this way, and you get nothing. ) (Zoran Babic, from the place: I thought – nice. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41404	Okay. I think there are more MPs from Uzic. Is there anyone else from Uzic? Yeah. Don't say that. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We have to hold on. Here you go. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: You did not ask me if I wanted to vote? Do you want to vote? I don't really have an answer. I try as hard as I can, but jumping, shouting, breaking the Rules of Procedure. I'm convinced that Serbian citizens want to hear what their money is spent on, what are the plans, but nobody wants to, and I'm here to... Here you go. National MP Marko Atlagic wants a word. Here you go. National MP Marijan Rističević. The list is full. Do you allow me to delete the list? Thank you. Here, you can answer it now. I ask the MPs not to report and allow Marijana Risticevic to speak on behalf of the Rules of Procedure. Just give me two seconds, please. Now, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41405	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, which reads, in its 1st and 2nd position: “If the MP of the National Assembly is offended by the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, that is to say, misread his presentation. The MP to whom the exposure relates shall have the right to replication’. Item 2: "If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party, whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply on behalf of the parliamentary group. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the application of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article." Madam Chairman, I don't mind. You gave the opposition MPs the right because Bojan Pajtic was mentioned. Bojan Pajtic, fortunately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is not a national MP, and as his ship sinks his party's ship, I believe it will not be. Therefore, I thank you for being tolerant of them, but in the future, the mention of Bojan Pajtic should not be given to them because Bojan Pajtic is not a folk MP and this member of the business does not apply to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41406	Thank you. If it's strictly how it works, then you know I have to work with everyone. So we started to interpret when the political party is mentioned that we give and when it comes to party presidents. Don't, please, let me be the one to blame. But if you want us to vote, I'd love to. I accept that there's a vote tonight on my way to conduct the session, I'd love to. (Marian Risticevic, from the city: No. ) The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41407	I would like to thank the President. Yes, I am a People's MP from Užica, and like all MPs, I want to contribute to this Parliament's work in the best possible way, as I believe for my colleagues, Stojiljkovic from the Serbian Progressive Party and for Jovan Markovic of the Democratic Party. It's up to us to show if we're going to work with that quality or not. Now let's get back to the amendment. It would be a great pleasure for us Socialists to have a large number of Serbian citizens following the transfer of the session of the Republika Srpska Assembly this morning. It would be a great pleasure to see a big difference between what we heard today from the High Representative of the European Community compared to what we now hear from the amendment promoters. What the High Representative of the European Community said today was unequivocally clear -- that the government of the Republic of Serbia was able to bring Serbia closer to Europe by opening Chapters 32 and 35, that an extremely successful OSCE presidency had done something that hadn't been done for 40 years, that it had prevented potential war spots in Ukraine, that Serbia's international reputation had grown significantly, that Germany as the dominant state in the EU had given green light to Serbia and thus routed Serbia to Europe. Therefore, all these references Serbia has unequivocally indicate that the amendment is slightly deplaced. What would happen if the amendments were accepted, except for the classic type of destruction? And that destruction is about limiting those goals already outlined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Above all, the implementation of rationalisation, the prevention of budget breakthroughs where budget funds are limited, primarily savings that have so far emerged as necessary to continue the recovery of the economy and the economy of the Republic of Serbia and the introduction of something that the SPS has long passed, which is the phenomenon of inflationary movements and inflation. In order to prevent this, it is, of course, necessary to reject the proposal for such an amendment, as proposed. The SPS parliamentary group firmly believes that such a budget proposal will contribute to financial consolidation in 2016, that rationalisation is carried out in a fair way. In this direction, we believe what is said here and by the resolute ministry, distinguished Minister Kori Udovici, that rationalisation will be fair, which means that units of local self-government will not suffer a burden that can lead to a collapse in the functioning of local self-government. That the criteria under which local self-governments will be rationalised in the public sector will be regulated and the corresponding number of employees found to be a real surplus should also be preserved by institutions and public enterprises where this should not be done, which generate income and which of these employees allow normal work and work for which they are registered. Of course, such rationalization must be carried out. Of course, it must not come to brakes from anyone, or even from the opposition, in order for one such concept to be realized necessary, not obstruction. What is proposed is an obstruction against which we will fight, and therefore we propose that the amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41408	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41409	Dear Madam President, the honourable gentlemen of the Ministers, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I, out of respect for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because this is the most important document for next year, and it actually determines the fate of our country and our nation as a whole. I suggest we reject this amendment, I'll give you an explanation. Because it's pointless and it's unrealistic. I can't imagine he's an amendment promoter and a former prime minister, and he's proposing that the first member be deleted, the entire budget. His explanation was that it wasn't developmental. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing this for two days, it's not social, it's developmental, 117 billion more plus 36 for agriculture. Is it true or not? Is it true the gentleman you deny? Whether social mild wage and pension growth is 4.3% and 2% in healthcare and education. I can see he's denying against me, but this is not the time for a gentleman who denies when the budget was being passed, and he signed 146 contracts, and with 165 million of his best friend from the ministry's budget. But let's move on, so he's really developmental and he's social. What matters, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are few who believed that fiscal reforms could produce good results. Neither the IMF nor other international organisations believed it nor the on-call culprits and critics in our country, and some MPs in this bench. To prove that, even the IMF was forced to change the GDP growth estimate for Serbia for 2015 three times, that estimate, a positive zero, and then zero and five and now 0.75 and 0.8. Is it true, gentlemen, that the MPs from the opposition benches, I do not have relevant international organisations that do not confirm this. I know you're moving your head. It's best for you when Serbia's not going well. Let us continue, the final estimate for 2016 is 1.75, 1.8, but growth for 2017 will be even more fortunate for Serbian citizens two, two, and for 2018 3.5. Dear citizens of Serbia, don't believe them, they're afraid of you, they're safe salaries and they're safe pensions for 2016, exactly the same day you'll get in a minute and in a second with that increase, as the budget here says and what the prime minister here said yesterday. This amendment is deleted, the one proposed for "The Iron" three days before it was established said that workers should be sent home, shut down the ironworks, the day, I will now quote you here on "N1" television. It is best for them to delete, and even wipe out this congregation. Is it true or not, gentlemen of the opposition bench, it is not true, you say to yourself, that the Republic of Serbia reduced the deficit in 2015 to four and 3.5, respectively? Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition bench, that this government is responsible against us, that the UN resolution on Srebrenica did not pass? Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition bench, that this government is responsible, along with its prime minister, for opening the first chapters this year with the EU? Is it true that this government, headed by our prime minister, has managed to stop Kim from being admitted to UNESCO? Whether it's true or not, the citizens will judge. Is it true, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition bench, that this government is responsible for not imposing sanctions on Russia? Is it true, ladies and gentlemen, that the merit of this government and our prime minister that the Republic of Serbia took 59 of the 189 countries on the World Bank's business list for 2016? Respected Serbian citizens, these are facts, it is even 32 positions compared to the previous year better. And this is important gentlemen from the opposition benches, it's the greatest success in the last nine years for a single country's jump. Make sure it's true or not. In the end, I'm shocked by the promoters, with the fact that there's one prime minister, and one professor still in college, and I don't understand that he wants to delete the entire budget. I know when they'd vote for the budget. Probably if there were wine subsidies, the one the proposer took from the Republic of Serbia's budget and your citizens' budget, just because it molded the vine on the grass. Is it true, gentlemen, that the MPs, a little material here or not? They only care about it when it's a mess. And finally, Madam President, today in one daily list, workers of all primary schools, all secondary schools number, all universities of state administration are published. Has that ever been in the last 15 years? That hurts, gentlemen. You've covered up seven thousand workers your principals in primary schools, hired past the competition, and not to say what they were taking to hire workers. Now, gentlemen, it's gone. As the prime minister and this government said yesterday, everything must be transparent and in this budget everything is transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41410	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41411	Thank you, Mr. Ministers, simply when it comes to this amendment, I find that it is not sufficiently reasoned, is not well explained, is not based on facts, and I think that yesterday we have had the opportunity to listen to the Minister of Economy, that from other ministers individually in the fields, we have been able to listen to individual and precise explanations on how to plan the funds, their contribution, and their spending and the way they are used. I have to say that we were in a position, too, to listen to the Prime Minister who spoke here for three hours, trying to make sure that citizens and all of us, in a very specific way and numbers, clearly and accurately say and exactly, not to say and to point out how the funds are being spent, as planned. What's significant in this budget is for me, which is rational, which is primarily based on real possibilities. Everyone wants to be able to do more, and I don't think it's too controversial for the Prime Minister himself and the Vice President and all the ministers and every single portfolio I think I'd like to be more. But we're wondering if we should spend what's impossible. I repeat and now what I consider objectively, if we treat ourselves correctly and with our own budget and don't spend more than what we have objectively, is it allowed in the state to spend what we don't have and bring the state and all citizens to such debt from which they go into debt slavery? I don't think this government is going to, it's not going to, and it's just such a responsible move that the EU has assessed the government's moves, its planning and its overall assessment of its plans for the next period. Simply, here's to say one or two examples. Wouldn't it be more appropriate for the Minister of Health to have more resources to arrange, to equip hospitals, to spread health care? But very responsible and rational for a series of moves that are both small and large, and therefore I think it's a big deal of your determination and procedure that you're conducting. In the Ministry of Economy where plans are clearly stated in the development sense, and I do not say, for example, travel, etc., where they are simply measuring the length of the path being done and a number of such other ministries that have explained, they show that they are clear goals, that they are clear tasks and that they are working on doing more for the next and the next years, to the satisfaction and individual areas, where citizens are users of services, where they are largely employed, where they have greater and better social and health protection and where, in every respect, they are in a situation where they live in a better and more organised state, which we all seek to enter all procedures in the EU, in all kinds of negotiations that are now ahead of us. The segment per segment is also regulated in a legislative sense, and this is something that is clearly followed in financial terms and that is why I believe that the government is in this case management of its proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41412	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41413	Respect for the respected ministers, the minister is missing, I use the time of the mandated proponent, or in front of the parliamentary group. Given that we had just before a tract that repeated itself, is it true, that it is true, so I will try to continue, and Mr. Minister, you will deny me if something is not true of what I'm saying, it will be very important for me to tell you what is not true. Is it true that this people have been in depth by increasing taxes since 2012 of all taxes that exist in this country? Is it true that excise duties on all products have been increased and excise duty has been introduced for the first time in Serbia's history on electricity? Is it true that pensions and salaries have been reduced? Is it true that pensioners received three dinars a month in the name of salary increases of 1.25%? Is it true that hospitals, citizens operate and put Indian strings on, and officials with German strings? Is it true that in the new budget 40 billion excises will come as revenue from the budget? Is it true that at the expense of all salaries in the province government, there are two billion, as we have heard, and at the expense of the Treaty on the part of the Republic of Serbia 15 billion and 176 thousand dinars? Is it true that it's more than 30,000 employees a month? Is it true that this is more than the Serbian Army has soldiers? Is it true there's going to be a smaller transfer for republican health insurance? Is it true that we expect less income based on the profits of businesses operating in Serbia? It's all true, my friends. That is why I support exactly the proposal made by counterpart Pavicevic, because this budget is a bad budget. One more thing, is it true that you have not accepted any amendments from opposition members? Is it true that Minister Mihajlovic will not have money in the budget to rebuild 320 bridges a year, each day one bridge, even on weekends, as she said? It's all true. This budget is not a development budget. This budget is not even the social budget, as it is also true to predict layoffs between 15,000 and 30,000 people. So no one can talk about this budget as honey and milk, just this budget is bad. From the very beginning, we're saying it's unreal in income and it's politicized in expenditures. So, please, you still have the strength, the possibilities, the will, the energy to return this budget. The very fact that no amendment, and hundreds of them are there, you have not accepted, is in favour of devising parliament's work. It contributes to imposing force exclusively and only what is the will of the majority. Is it true, too, that five billion dinar spending is planned at the travel expenses of the Government of Serbia next year? Five billion dinars, gentlemen, someone mentioned how much the province's cabinet is being spent by the Prime Minister. Four billion 833,000 514 dinars. The exact number in the number. Is that true? It's all true. Is this budget a developmental one? It's not. Is this budget social? It's not. It can't be a social budget if it leads to layoffs. The budget can't be social if all income or most of the income goes right to the citizens. How? Through excises. Is it true that we will have the participation of the state, of taxation in diesel fuel, the largest in Europe? Is it the same for liquid gas? Yes, it is. The country's largest grips in Europe will be in Serbia. Will that be an incentive for farmers? He won't. So it's a very simple thing. Read it diagonally, read it in order, who understands will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41414	Thank you. Minister Loncar wants a replica of... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Why? Why? Because a very dangerous sentence is said to make a difference between patients in Serbia, whether you're in office or you're an ordinary citizen. It's very offensive and persuasive if it's not true. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: it means that... We'll answer yes, no, please, but she's right. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: either you can buy or you can't, that's what I said.) No, it's... National MP Jovan Markovic throws it away. Calm down, I'll cut you off from the session because you won't let me work. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41415	I tried to ask you yesterday not to go out with these things to spread panic, to spread disinformation. This is absolutely not true what you said about the Indian thread going for the patients, and the other thread going for the officials. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I say no other thread...) ) You can listen, I beg you again, not to waste time, I beg you don't just untrue things spread, there's no basis. Please, ask around, whoever tells you that, that's not right. One thing, there's a market, there's permits and there's everything. You, I think you know very well, you've run the army, you've had VMA, you know, that I'm not talking about procurement. There's nothing to go through that doesn't meet the conditions, or there's no specific permit. If there's something from India, I don't want to put some country on it right now, if you're putting it on, there's no problem, I'm looking at it by quality. If he has a license, he's considered to have an adequate quality, right? How can you, if you have a tender, come, meet all the conditions, say – you know, because you are from India, or because your product is from India, we will not take your product, you have all the permits, you have a price or I don't know everything that is necessary, what is being pricked. We say, we make a difference – no, you are from India, you cannot. Please don't do this. So anything can, exists, is used now in the law that exists. If there's a story and anything that's not good, if you're saying it's not good, you have to prove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41416	The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, followed by Miletic Mihajlovic. I have to read for a full list, delete, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41417	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Now, I've been very careful since the moment the amendment applicant started with his explanation, so far I've been waiting for order, and I have to admit that in many ways I'm quite shocked by the amount of hypocrisy that comes from the other side. Otherwise, an esteemed colleague who's a professor and a pedagogue, I guess he taught his students that you can't strengthen your arguments by shouting. In fact, it shows that you have no arguments. And the gentleman who spoke earlier, besides insulting the social networks of women and other MPs, I don't know what else to say to him, but you know what that hypocrisy is, especially about the amendment itself? For example, they like to call on the Fiscal Council and that's very nice, but here comes a terrible criticism of the government why the government reduces wages and why it reduces and fires people. Otherwise, today you have, you simply have to read, you have today's interview with Pavel Petrovic in Nin where he advocates that next year we fire 20,000 more people. I'm talking about the President of the Fiscal Council, where he advocates that we further cut spending in the state. He even criticises the government for having a slight cost reduction. He's asking for more, asking for more pensions and salaries. If we did that, you'd hang us here. I don't know now, when you're calling on the Fiscal Council, do they ask us to fire people or do you call when it's strictly appropriate for you? It's really hypocritical. I haven't really heard a single alternative proposal here that's wrong with this budget. I admit, I read on the social network by one fellow MP, on the other hand one proposal, I'll hear of course how he'll explain it, whether I personally might accept it or not, but I really haven't heard one single alternative from you. I invite you to read, the Fiscal Council said very nicely, you have a terrible criticism by the Fiscal Council which, though, thank God, last year in many ways missed our deficit, but certainly from them you must always consider the argument because it is about people who are really professional, unlike what you are. But they're asking us to fire 20,000 people from public sector work. Here, if the government applied it, what would you do to us here? Look, they're criticizing the government for having had this raise of wages and pensions at all now what happened recently. Here someone makes fun of it and says, "Yes, it's 200, 300 dinars or whatever." Excuse me, you make that 200, 300 dinars. You earn, it's huge money, it's somebody's got to make money, you got to secure somewhere from some real source. It was easy to run politics, so I want to get in charge, so she's making loans and then she's handing out salaries and pensions. It's what anyone can do, but it's how you're gonna destroy the country. We don't want to do that. I have to admit even, to be honest with Mr. Vujovic, I may be more radical about this, I might even apply this to the Fiscal Council, but I'm afraid of really what would happen because you'd have a complete social rebellion, and that's a fact. By the way, those people have a right and somewhere and they're resonating it in a way that's right because we're really in a deep, scary way. In today's interview with Nina, Mr. Pavle Petrovic says nicely that in 2008, we had a public debt of 28% of GDP, which means 28%. You raised him to almost 60 at the end of your term, I think. You've even had a legal limit of 45%, you've broken the law, and no one's answering regrets because you've been raising suspicious loans with creepy interest that we're paying. We next year, I repeat, must pay a billion and 150m euros in interest. Who's gonna make that? And you're here complaining to us about what. Come on, people, we all agree, it's not nice for anyone to cut wages and pensions. I said that yesterday, if someone really thinks Mr. Vukic is crazy, that he likes to live above the people, to cut his wages and pensions, then you're deeply mistaken. It's just insane. But we have no other alternative. If you have something else, you offer, say, "Here, we don't want to cut wages and pensions, we don't want to cut expenses, we don't know what to offer. But don't offer us more credit because we're going to bury the state. And that's something that's really inadmissible, and I'm asking you not to bring out any more real truths and to call on the Fiscal Council, because if you're calling on the Fiscal Council, then you're certainly pushing for us to fire another 20,000 people next year and you're trying to cut people's salaries and pensions, and I'm not sure that's the policy you've been leading to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41418	The word has Miletic Mihajlović. The next MP is Zoran Babic, so Jovan Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. I don't know what you're looking for a line to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41419	Dear Presidents, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me say immediately that the amendment to Article 1 which says that this member should be deleted cannot be supported and such an amendment is pointless. It is, I guess, elemental under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a budget for each year, and in fact, we are in this debate in the process of passing the law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016, and that is our constitutional obligation. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia is one of the most important laws in the functioning of the state, according to which it is written in that first member who is denied, regulates incomes and incomes, expenditures and expenditures in our country. So denying such a single need as defined in Article 1 of this Budget Act is a simple destruction, and I would say calling for a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is why, of course, this amendment is truly groundless and pointless. We must all agree that we must pass the Law on the Republic of Serbia's budget for next year. We may also suggest that we delete a member in this budget. Certainly, we will not all agree on the proposed budget proposals for 2016 and this is not disputed and we should not be unanimous in all this, but the practical denial of the need to adopt budgets is lax and makes no sense. One thing is certain, that this government is very committed to Serbia's progress and Serbia's recovery, and it is also shown through the reforms it brings to its existence and certainly to what the results are in business, I would say, Serbia and what this budget has been designed. Therefore, it is committed to the progress and improvement of Serbia as a rare government in the past. Let's really talk it over, let's be so cooperative and make a lot of sense in everything we suggest. In any case, there is no need to discuss such an amendment. Let's be serious about what we're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41420	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41421	Since I see that this is now a time to ask questions, although they are neither parliamentary questions nor questions to the government, but I'm going to take advantage of that opportunity, so I'm going to ask some questions. Is it true that Bojan Pajtic spends the money of Serbian citizens living in Vojvodina and even four million and 600,000 dinars of donation to NGOs in the province of Limpopo in the Republic of South Africa. And Limpopo is more important than Novi Sad, Subotica, Kickinda, Somboro and all those wonderful places in Vojvodina, Limpopo? Too bad the Minister of Justice and the Home Secretary aren't here, they'll come alone. Is it true that Bojan Pajtic spent it, and he can sue me as he sued Mr. Aleksandr Martinovic today, my colleague and friend, but he won't stop us from saying the truth every day, is it true that he kidnapped millions and 200,000 euros from the children distracted in development, that he took from the world a million and 200 thousand euros, and that instead of Hetherland, instead of the facility for those children, for their families, for the parents of those children, that there was a retail shelter left, but Bojan Pajtic's pockets and his clicks, my god, are fuller for a million and 200 thousand euros? Is it true that from 2006 to 2015 every year, there has been an increase in the number of jobs in the province's administration of snorkels, aunts, aunts, godmothers, business partners, friends, thank Dragana, party colleagues and colleagues, and that is why more than a billion dinars are spent on the citizens of Vojvodina annually? Is it true that between 2000 and 2012, those who have a problem with electricity excise, measured in prominence, is it true that electricity for DS and Bojan Pajtic at the time of their rule, when they were setting the electricity price, has accumulated cumulatively 600%? Here, there's Mr. Sasa Antic, I'm sure she'll answer – did she collect electricity from 2000 to 2012, electricity in Serbia for the economy and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia more than 600%? Another question, I'm sure, won't have an answer, is for the one who just slightly attacked the government of Alexander Vukic and the Republic of Serbia, is he even more fond of glass than crystal in the Sava centre than the budget of the Republic of Serbia and of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41422	The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41423	Thank you. It is precisely, contrary to the reasoning stated by the amendment's proposer, that the draft budget reflects both the state and the moment in which the Republic of Serbia is located. What is most important and most qualitative of the draft budget is that it is realistic and that it is planned according to the expected revenues and according to these expected expenditures, and we know well that budgets are planned and implemented in some earlier period. The budget is set exactly in line with the government's goals for Serbia to spend as much as it earns. It used to fall apart, and it used to be irresponsibly wasted. That's why we're where we are, one more year ago, in which the stability of public finances, in which to save, should be maintained, applied a set of unpopular measures. We know that citizens do not rightly accept these measures, but it is obvious that because of all that has been done before, measures like this must be taken and approached. It is true that the budget for next year has been reduced, but it is important that the social rights of citizens have not been touched. It is important and important that the government has defined 117 billion dinars and 35 billion dinars for railways and roads in such difficult times for capital investment. We know the importance of investment in road infrastructure. That's what all the countries around us figured out before we did. We know how much investment in road infrastructure affects both economic growth and GDP growth and that this is a very important step in the race for investment. That is why we propose that the amendment, which stipulates that this member and all the other members are deleted, is not accepted without giving any other solution for this and for the next members. I am sure that the proposer is aware of how not adopting the budget would affect Serbia's functioning and how much it would endanger and provide funding for pensions, social benefits and wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41424	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41425	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers, the amendment came about as a consequence of subsidies when it comes to railways. Six billion more this year than last year. We believe, not that it is just wrong, but that it is blocking Serbia's development and that for that reason it is one of the things, one of the arguments why we have claimed that this budget is not developmental and that this budget, in the end, is not even social. We have suggested, or I personally, that at least half of this amount of money be provided for a safe job for young people. In Serbia, 55% of young people are unemployed. If Serbia manages to make sure, with 50 or 60m euros in some subsequent period each year, that these young people, as young experts, stay in the country, don't leave the country, if they could spend a year in a private company, pay the average salary in the Republic, with taxes and contributions, and that, if the owner of that private company decides on such a programme by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that he can't fire the one who worked with him by then, we may at least be able to give a chance at work to any young man who finishes a higher, higher school or a doctorate. It is the way Serbia cares about its future, its personnel. Why are we against this many subsidies in the railways? Because there is even one amount of money from the EU that has not been used to restructure the public enterprise. We think that this is very bad and that in this way large funds are still being spent in nothing, and in this way we can encourage a young man to get a chance in Serbia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41426	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41427	Thank you, Your Honor. You know how, the manners of the former regime in most cases did go from spilling hollows into blanks, take from here to give somewhere else, take credit to pay, pay salaries and pensions, we advocate that young people in Serbia have jobs. We want to open new jobs and that in factories that are open like Ruma, which will open in Šapac, Novi Sad, there are young people working here, but to attract investments, to invest money, to leave additional value in our country, to pay for these young people and that they can earn normal living conditions. When you talk about rail or not to invest in something, we first have certain obligations both towards the EU and the modernisation of our railways, as we want to modernise our infrastructure, and here we have shown results in the last two and a half years we have built more than in the last 45 years, counting your 15 years. These are concrete results. There's some people working on that railroad. We've got 16 grand. We want to raise Serbia, we want to develop economically. How can anyone trust you, in your prognosis, in your conjecture of what would be or what would be if you were saying that our country's deficit would be 230 billion. You said that, you convinced us here. Now that we have a deficit of about 80 billion, which is almost three times smaller, what do you say now, gentlemen? Now you have some other excuses and some other reasons. The International Monetary Fund praised our country's economic reforms, the World Bank, the EBRD. What's most important is we're not doing it to be praised from the outside, but to make and preserve our country, our economy, our budget, which you've destroyed since 2000, right here. It's the only thing you knew you were doing, and you did it successfully. Wait, gentlemen, there's a local county election going on. The easiest thing anyone could do right now is to charge, take four, five billion euros of credit, pump and raise, if necessary, wages and pensions by 20%, to win some elections. That is proof, if you do, that you are working against your country, against your people and those young people you speak of and generations to come. That's not how we behave. We want to spread out as long as we are. We raise our salaries and pensions as much as we can from real incomes, what we've earned, we've saved on trips, our diaries, everything you've ruined tens and hundreds of millions of euros on. We're moving millimeters per millimeter, but we're going to get to the finish line, and the goal is to continue and have a trend in increasing our GDP. You said we wouldn't have a positive trend. We're going to have a positive trend, we're going to be in plus 1%, in the next years 2%, and then 3% in 2017. You couldn't even dream of it. What did you do? What did you leave? "Air Serbia", or JAT, when you managed this country, when your experts managed this country, had losses every year between 30m and 50m euros. Today we have a leader in the region when we talk about air traffic. "Air Serbia" contributes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so be it for a single euro, it goes into the budget and remains for our people, that is, our country. Whatever you've touched, I'm going to say an example of Nikola Tesla Airport, in your time, the value for a 30-year concession could have been about 100m euros. Today it is estimated at 500m euros. Five times as much as we can get the money. "Telecom Serbia," so the offer, whatever it is, is far greater than the one you made possible when you opened tenders and when you were trying to implement privatisation. When we look at any parameter, we're far better, we're far more honest and responsible, and it hurts. I know it hurts. So, all that other praises to you and what they see as results, which say numbers, bad, it's all black, and because there's no hiducius in this country, there's no robbery, there's no kidnapping, there's no corruption privatisations. However, one part of our country continues to camp in very criminal activities. They repeat, since most likely the lawyer will sue me, and I have not seen anywhere right that someone can sue you twice for the same thing you did or said, but they obviously know it, whether or not, Martinovic, the great lawyers who have acquired enormous knowledge. As we raise our country, our economy and preserve what is preserved can, develop and open factories, hire people, reduce the number of unemployed, you take from children distracted by the development of a million and a half euros. You should be ashamed, because it's your results, that's what you're doing, that's not what you're doing and that's why I expect, of course, another lawsuit and I have nothing against it, for the third time for the same thing, which says what kind of lawyers we have across the street, but that's less important. I expect Serbian citizens in the next elections, whenever they are, to clear you from the political scene and never allow you to rob and deceive them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41428	I thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41429	I think there's only one thing, and that's that there's no reason to guess anymore and come up with names for this budget. I think the best name for this budget is that this is the real budget of the Republic of Serbia right now. The most realistic possible alignment with the IMF, consistent with the World Bank, with all those who are relevant to evaluate it. What's left of us, I don't think this story is here and that we're overpowering ourselves, but to see that every penny in this budget is used in the best possible way and that we all try and participate in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41430	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41431	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I think that these amendments, which Minister Vujovic particularly loves now, are amendments relating to the financing of the AP Vojvodina and those famous 7% that we cannot manage in the Constitution to secure. It is not your government's newspaper, but what is your government's newspaper, that you have declared by law that 7% is not 7%, or you have declared by the Budgetary System Act that 7% of the budget is actually 7% of the budget revenues. Unfortunately for you, the Constitution doesn't say that. The Constitution says 7% of the budget. The assembly of the AP Vojvodina has applied for constitutionality assessment to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, unlike the case when it hurried to announce pensions, has been two and a half or three years since this constitutional assessment initiative. What is the problem, however, is that even those 7% that you count as you count on, you don't even pay it, and you know it very well, and maybe you should also tell your colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the MPs who convince us here that Serbia is doing great, what you have answered the government of Vojvodina in response to the question why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not paid four and a half billion dinars. You said that because of the lack of money on the Republic of Serbia's budget, the revenues you expected were much lower, and that in other parts of Serbia, the economic environment is worse, than in the AP Vojvodina. So much for how well you run Serbia and how disastrously DS leads Vojvodina. So, if you're saying here now that the money in the budget was for it, it had two options or money in the budget, and you're falsely saying there's or money in the budget, and you're not giving because the people of Vojvodina didn't vote for SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41432	Please, Miss Jerkov. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go, Mr. Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41433	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the most significant legal economic act that can be passed in one fiscal year, but the budget is also the most significant political issue that can be opened in one Assembly. When MPs from the opposition, specifically my predecessor, is talking today about the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the funds allocated to the AP, she should know that the transfers leaving the Republic of Serbia's budget are 5.46% of the total revenue and I say 5.46% of the total revenue, I am not talking total expenditure because it has to be understood what the problem is in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, not this Government, but in all budgets. 92.46% of total revenues, meaning everything produced in the Republic of Serbia is leaving for almost fixed expenditure. These are such expenditures that the Serbian government does not have the opportunity to influence them, these are expenditures for employees of 24.02% of total incomes, these are subsidies granted for pensions and military pensioners of more than 20%. There's subsidies, there's obligations, there's the principal. If you look at it then you realize that we are in this Assembly discussing essentially 516m euros today. In this constitution and this relationship, it is impossible to isolate more because the state of Serbia is currently not achieving better results than it can. These results are undeniably best, as never in Serbia's history, if you have a growth of a social gross product of 0.8%, if you have a drop in unemployment levels, if you have stable and fixed inflation that is about 2%, then that's what it says about the strength of macroeconomic parameters and the strength of an economy. One of these parameters can always be very easy to change, you can raise the level of social products, you can reduce the level of unemployment, but when you have three key parameters growing, then it says the measures made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41434	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. The word has a national message, Mariana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41435	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Not contesting the motive and objective of submitting amendments submitted by the People's Parliament, Aleksandra Jerkov, who was cited in the explanation that the AP Vojvodina budget provides a minimum volume of 7% of the Republic's budget, i.e. allowing the implementation of the constitutional requirement for the 3/7 of the AP Vojvodina budget to be used to finance capital expenditures. I don't think this goal and motive is disputed or chaired. For us from the SPS parliamentary group, this amendment is unacceptable for the reason that its adoption would suggest a reduction of subsidies to division 23 of the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of the environment of three billion dinars. This would jeopardise the payment of planned subsidies in 2016, intended for the re-use and exploitation of secondary raw materials waste and for the production of energy and re-use bags, a reduction of two billion subsidies under the Head of the Agrarian Payments Authority, which would jeopardise the payment of planned subsidies in 2016 for rural development measures. From these allegations that are found in the reasoning submitted by the Government, this amendment is unacceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41436	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41437	I just wanted to be connected to what Mr. Babic was saying, not to remain unsettled, and I felt somewhat called. Without getting into any valuable reference to that whole story, just the statistics I just checked. So, since 2000-2008, I haven't watched 2008-2012, so I don't get into a trap to discuss it in some political way, the cost of electricity for households from 0.52 dinars per kilowatt hour without taxes went to 4.15 dinars, or 690% of Mr Babić, and for industry from 0.32 dinars to 3,72 dinars, or 880% of Mr Babić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41438	Thank you, Mr. Antic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41439	I think we're talking about some other amendment entirely. With this amendment submitted by counterpart Jerkov, it is planned for employees in the area of education to be slightly more than five billion dinars, in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The budget law planned for these people is 27 billion dinars, which means that counterpart Jerkov wants five times less salaries to have employees in the AP Vojvodina territory, so that Mr Pajtic has more money to spend on himself. Otherwise, in general the financing system of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the system of funding local self-government budgets and the AP funding system is based on all fighting for some income. The only difference between the previous governments and this one is that someone can't expect all the republics to make it possible for him. The law on the financing of local self-government provides, you think it's funny, I don't think it's funny that local self-governments are fighting in the market to attract investors and employ their citizens to finance from income tax on citizens from corporate tax. Right? I think so. That's funny to you, I don't. That's what the AP Vojvodina budget says. 18.7% of income tax revenues per citizen, 42.7% of company income. All entrusted transactions by the Republic entrusted to the AP Vojvodina are financed from the Republic budget and it enters into mass, as pensions on AP territory paid by the Republic, health care paid by the Republic, but do something about you in the territory of the AP Vojvodina to increase employment. Four years and 15 years, respectively, Bojan Pajtic did not increase employment in Vojvodina, and now he wants more money. You hire people, you get bigger income taxes, you open up new businesses, you bring foreign investors, you get bigger tax revenues that you trust with the law. You can't expect the whole of the Republic government to work because the Prime Minister of the Province is incapacitated. That's what this is about, you fight on the market like this government fights for every penny, for every income, like the good presidents of the municipalities and mayors fight for every investor and for every job, so fight once and for all, and don't cry anymore that someone is taking something from the citizens of Vojvodina and don't make it here in the Assembly that there are citizens of the first and second order. You called me a second-class citizen while you were in power. That time has passed. There are no more citizens of first and second order.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41440	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Replica na Minister Antića. ) Mr. Markovic, you cannot learn the Rules of Procedure and know when you are right and when you are not. You don't even respect your colleague who's up to ask questions. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have the same basis as the minister's word. That's what I decide, Mr. Markovic. When you're in this place, it's up to you to decide. Thank you. Now let me ask Miss Jerkov on what basis she wanted the word. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Mr. Arsic said that I want to be five times reduced by employees in... . ) Miss Jerkov, the Democratic Party has the right to reply, but since it is not even an authorised representative... (Balsa Bozovic throws out of place. ) Mr Bozovic, allow me, respect your colleague to say, to try to say something she has to say. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: He mentioned me by name and last name. ) Miss Jerkov, the Democratic Party is mentioned, the party president is mentioned... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: He mentioned her. Mr. Markovic, let me finish. The party's president is mentioned, the Democratic Party and the right to reply would either have a president or a deputy president. We no longer have Borko Stefanovic, so we have a new president of the parliamentary group. There is no parliamentary group president, there is no deputy, Mr Nikolic, there is no authorised representative, Mr Sutanovac, so I cannot give the word to the Democratic Party on that basis. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41441	I'd like to refer you to Article 104. The Rules of Procedure in which it is written, I read, I ask you to follow, if the People's MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended to the MP who is not a member of the Parliament group, stating his name or name, or misreads his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation refers has the right to a replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41442	Read to the end that attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41443	I'll read it all the way. Mr. Arsic said co-worker Jerkov wanted to reduce his salary five times to enlighten workers in the territory of Vojvodina. The following point states that you decide on this right as set out in Articles 1 and 2, but Article 27 says that you decide on it on the basis of Rules of Procedure, not on the basis of how you think of it. If you think it really makes sense that Mr. Arsic here says that I want the educators to be reduced five times, and that you think that I don't have a basis for replication, then every honor to you and then let you really be proud of how you run this assembly, but don't think that you can't see it and don't think that every day it doesn't become increasingly clear that you run this assembly so that those who criticise the government never have any right, and those who praise the government that they belong to all rights. It never could, so it won't work now, Mr. Becic, and you don't give me the replica. Just make sure that you decide on the replica based on what it says in the Rules of Procedure, not on what it seems to you, at which point, as you said yesterday, there was no appropriate time for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41444	Miss Jerkov, I'll take a look at your notes and see if your name is mentioned. I didn't hear that. I heard that the Democratic Party was mentioned, I heard that the Democratic Party was mentioned, I heard that Mr Pajtic was mentioned and that he was a representative of your parliamentary group and you would get the word. (Alexandra Jerkov throws out of place. ) Now you throw it away, I listened carefully to you even though you used the Law of the Rules of Procedure, for the sake of reporting to the Rules of Procedure to abuse this Rules of Procedure, I should take two minutes away from you, but I won't do it, but every next time I do it. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41445	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of article 108, which in its first position says that the session of the National Assembly is held by the old President of the National Assembly. When you explained earlier why you did not give Miss Jerkov your word again, I believed you did not even hear the previous speaker mentioning Miss Jerkov several times. And if you're tired, and if you don't have the concentration, and if you can't take care of this session in the way the Rules of Procedure is intended, then either interrupt the session or someone else comes to your seat. As you just gave Mr. Antic, the minister, after three discussions and the right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41446	Mr. Markovic, I'm taking away your parliamentary group for two minutes and I can't run this assembly as long as you get up, you get in the word, you don't let me lead this assembly. I've taken away your MP's group for two minutes. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Why? For what? That's it. I'm entitled to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is Miss Jerkov. In the meantime... Sit down, Mr. Markovic, because I'm going to have to punish you. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Why? Because I can't see Miss Jerkov. In the meantime, I called Mr. Arsic, and I got information from him that it was mentioned at one point in your last name. It's not in a negative context, but it's still mentioned, so I'm going to give you a line right now, two minutes. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, do you trust him, and not me? I had to check on Miss Jerkov. Now are we gonna make sure I don't trust you or need you or... Marko Djurisic throws out of place. Mr. Djurishic, will you allow Miss Jerkov to have her word? Here you go, Miss Jerkov. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am not talking to you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41447	Could you excuse me for not believing me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41448	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41449	Okay. I accept your apology. So when... Zoran Babic throws it out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41450	Mr. Granny, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41451	The essence of my amendment... Zoran Babic throws it out of place. ) Can you do something to please Mr. Babic? The essence of the amendment is not that employees in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina should have five times less salaries, but that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should not put into the budget of the AP Vojvodina salaries of educators who, under the basis of the Law of the Education and Education System, are the exclusive competence of the RS. The only salaries that should be in the AP Vojvodina budget are salaries for high-school employees. I am the first, Mr. Arsic, to accept that RS no longer needs to fill the AP Vojvodina budget. It's done very easily. You give sources of funding to the APV and then she fills her own budget. I believe it would be a much fairer system than what we now have in which the Vojvodina's full republican budget is more than 30%, and it returns, as we can see, two to three percent. But by investing and attracting investments, I pray, it is truly tragic that someone from the SNS is talking to anyone from the AP Vojvodina about attracting investments because more than 80% of the investments that are coming to Serbia despite the efforts of the RS government to end up in the AP Vojvodina, which they are talking about, you will allow, a little more authority in the world economy than the present SNS MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41452	We've got a lot of reports. On what basis of the replica, Mr. Granny? (Zorana Babic, from the place: The mention of the name, last name and Serbian Progressive Party. On what basis do you, Mr. Arsic? (Veloljub Arsic, from the place: I am mentioned. ) Your name is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41453	I know how to read, and what's in whose head I won't guess. The controversial amendment reads – economic classification 4.6.3rd transfers for employees in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina - 5.196.930.000. In the budget law, transfers for persons employed in education on the territory of Vojvodina – 26.778.126,000. I'm reading the numbers, so let's let whoever's going round his head check it out, and I know the numbers are right, so let's ask him how honest he is with the citizens and Serbia and the Vojvodina. So you asked to cut salaries to employees in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and give to Bojan Pajtic. Nothing more. Furthermore, there are several walks that both the AP and the units of local self-government and the Republic. There are original incomes and there are trusted revenues. Trusted revenues are revenues of 18% of the income tax of citizens made in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Is that a confidential income? Yes, it is. Or don't you understand that, obviously? Second confidential income - 47% of the corporate income tax. There is NIS's largest taxpayer in Serbia. Is this a confidential income? Yes, it is. Learn a little.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41454	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has the head of the SNS Parliamentary Group, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41455	I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, that someone who wants to court me first befits his closest environment, because the MPs of its nearest environment were primarily you, and then all of us MPs called cattle. But then that decent folk letter applauded. Well, then, it would be good to call even closer to the MPs from the same parliamentary group who primarily called you, Mr Becic, and then all of us MPs, garbage, but now they're dealing with crystal glasses instead of being in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So I'd like to invite these crystal glasses to suit themselves and to call more of these buildings on Vračar not pasture, but magnificent villas and buildings that are not built on wages, ministerial buildings at the time, or now from the MP. So I'd invite her to court her party's boss not to take, steal and steal from children distracted by development and not take from that sanctuary a million and 200,000 euros, as much as he took and took, leaving the children with the ruins. And it's only when she gives these people the courtesy of those people who are from the circuit secretary for agriculture, from that salary, that I don't know how much she can be, but she can't make a penthouse in India, not a smaller apartment in Vienna, not smaller apartments in Novi Sad, as Mr. Jesic, vice president of the DS, has.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41456	Mr. Granny, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41457	When she's got them all decent, then she'll be able to court me, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41458	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41459	Since time is limited, let me just answer those direct questions that have been asked. First of all, I didn't understand the essence of your discussion and amendment. Your amendment requires that an amendment be deleted, i.e. Article 1 is changed by your text of Article 1 which, if I have read correctly, requires 35 billion to be reduced by total revenue, and that when accompanied by an entire member to reduce the excise duty by 35 billion. Did I send it right? So that's your suggestion. Your proposal is to reduce the income of excise duty on oil derivatives by 35 billion. You got that through this, you didn't get through the rest of the budget, but that's it. It's not accepted. That's necessary, that's the deal we had before, that's the structural part of the budget's income, and that's why we can't accept it. The second question of yours was about the Duke's budget. I refer you to article 7, which Mr. Arsic has already read in part. So, the AP Vojvodina to Article 7 that has been taken over, which is taken over every year from the Budgetary System Act, and in accordance with the constitutional provision that you have said has not been passed, that it is anti-constitutional, which is economically undefined, because as far as the budget does not exist, the budget as such does not exist. There can be a revenue side of the budget, a cost-effective side of the budget, etc., as it says here in the article you're quoting. So there are incomes and incomes, there are expenditures, etc. Now that I'm not getting into the details, the point is next. Last year we checked the exact situation, and every year we follow the situation. Last year, AP Vojvodina received 7.06% and 7.1%, respectively, when all elements were taken. I can give you a table with all the elements, with numbers. So that's official data. What has been achieved, what you are talking about, is that a lower income has been achieved on one item of these transfers in that section relating to Article 7(2), i.e. that withdrawal 2, which says that AP Vojvodina belongs to 42.7% of profits. We said – the Republic of Serbia belongs to 57.3 and that we in this same situation, because the profit of the NIS was lower, made less income. Secondly, it doesn't say anywhere that the state of Serbia needs to compensate you, Vojvodina. So it's a question that can be solved in a different way, not like this. There's no basis for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41460	I thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Micunovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Member of the 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Branko Karavidic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41461	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment proposes an increase in budget revenues through an increase in income tax on citizens by 10 billion dinars and an increase in VAT collection in the country of 23 billion dinars. At the same time, we also propose a reduction in budget revenues based on a reduction in public sector earnings of 12 billion, i.e. the return of earnings to public sector employees to the level before the reduction. We received an explanation, i.e. I received an explanation saying among other things – the amendment is not accepted because the amount of income on the basis of income tax and value added tax is given in the draft budget law projected on the basis of the current tax policy of the current rate of charge and the effects of better tax collection as a result of the fight against the gray economy are not included in the income assessment, which is in line with the principles of good budgetary practice. Mr. Minister, when I was working on this amendment, I took into account your statement from August of this year, where you said, and Tanjug passed on, I will read – Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic announced today that the state will introduce measures among which is the introduction of an online fiscal register that will increase VAT collection between 15 per cent and 20 per cent. So, I gave myself the right to make this amendment, and I'll remind you more, and my colleague Djurisic was talking yesterday about how disastrous the tax returns are. In 2010, 75%, 2011 was slightly less than 75%, in 2012, 76%, to fall to 69% in 2013, and now 71%. So your promise to increase VAT revenues from 15% to 20% gave me the basis to make up this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41462	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Zoran Jozic. Here you go, Mr. Jozic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41463	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard a brief remark from an opposition MP that we have not adopted a single amendment that they, of course, have proposed. I, as an MP who had a little follow-up on the results while they were in power, have no argument that would make me agree to adopt this or any other amendment. Namely, recalling the ex-Prime Minister Cvetkovic's 2008 exposé, I must say a few things that contribute to what I said. He talks about the goals of the government of the Republic of Serbia at the time, he says -- the goal is to increase GDP in the next four years by 7% annually. That was 2008, and in 2009, we had minus 4%, in 2008, 5.6% plus, at 2009 minus 4%. It's total, gentlemen, 9% minus, they promised 7% a year. Is that true? As the opposition colleague said, yes. Is it true that about 500 thousand new jobs were promised in the campaign? Yes, it is. That Mr. Cvetkovic said 200 grand at the exposé? When they formed the government, they'd already put it down to 200 grand. That the unemployment rate from 18.1% to 11.9% was a planned reduction, and in 2012, it was just over 26%. Is it true? Yeah, the numbers are in favor. Is it true that the poverty rate in 2009 increased by 6.9% in the year by 9.2%? That's right. Is it true that 500,000 were promised, or 200,000 new jobs, and we actually got about 450 thousand workers fired, and among them only 5,000 whose salaries were financed from the budget? Is it true? Yes, everything stands well written and can be checked. Is it true that 130,000 largely small and medium-sized enterprises have been shut down in those four years? That's right. Is it true that a thousand euros have been promised for free actions for citizens and that they have received an unfulfilled forty? That's right. And instead of increasing revenues, we had a six-billion-euro debt in those four years, i.e. the total internal debt increased by another nine billion euros. Now we're talking about good wishes and amendments, as if this government doesn't want to increase revenue in every segment, or increase donations. Well, of course every government wants to, but only one does, these previous ones promised. Mr. Vukic's government is not promising, but is working on it, on what is needed for the citizens of Serbia and it is less embarrassing, I think, and the opposition's MPs to support this nicely all that is proposed, rather than proposing amendments for which there is no basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41464	Thank you, Mr. Jozic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41465	Just for a little while. I have no objection to your idea, but I have to tell you that the practice that we have to face in the world is such that every measure of income has to be realized for ten to twelve months to be accepted in projections as a real measure. So, in other words, if we bring today a change in the rate of pay and if we bring in the introduction of fiscal tills and project today, we would have to do 12 months, ten months is the least, to follow that income and only to increase it next year. We've only made an increase this year based on what we've had for the past ten months and they've admitted it to us. That's the practice. It would be better if we could design bigger revenues, but we can't, and we're not giving up on that. We've just had a meeting, and since January 1st, we've been starting with what's-his-name. fiscalization, we start with a whole series of measures that will increase the charge without changing the rate of tax, or VAT rate, but we need to do so by October, November next year to be able to show in revenue for the 2017 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41466	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41467	It is very easy to use the data here to compare in 2008 and 2009 and what happened in Serbia's economy between 2008 and 2009. Let's remind those who don't want to remember the situation and the world stock market crash at the end of September 2008. There have been economic problems worldwide, and in 2009 there was a decline in social product in Serbia. Yes, there was a fall, but that fall was in the region one of the smallest. Only one country had a smaller decline in 2009, and in 2015 Serbia has the smallest growth in the region, the smallest. Each country of the region -- and Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Macedonia, and Montenegro have two or three times bigger growth than Serbia's growth, which is 0.8%. Minister, is this true? Is this true? What the colleague suggested through this amendment is to achieve the ineffectiveness of VAT collection, which was in 2009, 2010 and 2011, to reach it by half, to do something in, say, tax administration reform, which the Fiscal Council tells you is necessary. You, as finance minister, have not said once in these two days what your plan is to do with the tax administration in order to raise the efficiency of tax collection in Serbia. And it was our intention to show that there was room for better income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41468	Thank you. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Before that, Minister Dusan Vujovic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41469	It's short notice. For these differences in rates, I've told you five times that we don't bother people anymore. Serbia had large floods, if you forgot, had a rate of minus 3.7% in the third quarter when I became finance minister and achieved the highest rate of growth acceleration of 1.75%. There are no countries in the region that have achieved this. We'll get those lands, I've told you five times, and I can do it six times. The second thing, I said about income, and I repeat, our goal is just that, but that's what happens, look at the figures for three years -- VAT on imports of 295, 2014, 316,339. We're increasing that by dynamics, we can't go any faster. This net home showing up here is falling, but it's not falling grossly domestic. Gross domestic growth in all these years. The net domestic decline is because we have a larger VAT refund because exports are growing. So in our budget, these figures are very carefully calculated, if you want, we'll deliver you a total bill to see how these figures are obtained. So we're growing income from VAT, but we're growing the total VAT revenue less than the net VAT is growing, than gross VAT is growing, precisely because exports are reviving. So the total VAT with the net domestic VAT is 409,6,412,427. When we expand the tax base, when we charge more, and we plan a deep reform of the tax administration next year, then we will be able to increase these revenues in the budget and then we will all be able to do it together, we all want to achieve these increases. As I said, to repeat, ten to twelve months of better performance is expected, so that it can be included in the next budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41470	Time. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41471	Thank you, Mr. Becic. By amendment, of course, which makes it unclear to someone why I got and on what basis I got my word. I'm glad some of my fellow MPs started talking about the past. It's a good thing they mentioned both in 2008 and 2009. Do you want to calm down and court Mr. Markovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41472	I'm sorry, Mr. Babico, I'm trying to get it from session to session, but believe me, it's not working, because I don't understand what Mr. Markovic wants at all. If you wish, Mr. Markovic, you can approach the chair to explain yourself by not disturbing the speaker who is currently on the table.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41473	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Every decline in gross social product is more than 1% dramatic. Every fall, and I'll remind you that in 2009, that same year, we had a 3.4% drop. A 3.4% drop is a disaster for one country. But I will also remind the citizens of Serbia of those promises. What did the politicians who ran the financials and the government of our country say then? The crisis won't even touch us. The crisis is a developmental opportunity for Serbia. The then government is in crisis and the former regime has told Serbian citizens that we will earn, so here's what we have earned, a fall or a negative war on gross social product of 3.4%. And that question that I was asking back then as a folk MP and the question that I'm asking right now -- and when you saw that it was a 3.4% drop, what did you do? What measure did you carry out? What have you done to stop this fall, except that it was a distraction for the citizens of Serbia when the former prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, said - we are statistically out of the crisis, but that citizens will not feel it, with the enormous wealth of individuals who have exercised that power, anything else. Banished the International Monetary Fund and spent the funds as they needed, for the sake of achieving political goals and winning elections, what the Serbian Progressive Party will never do. We've taken heavy measures, and we're about two-thirds of that road, about my humble judgment. As forecasts were for this year, still valid in 2015, there was going to be a decline, i.e. a negative growth in GDP of 0.5%. Well, some of those pessimistic announcements are going to be a 1.5% drop. These are the same people who announced that they allowed the fall in 2009 of 3.4%. And what have we achieved? We've achieved that this year we can expect a growth of 0.9%, and I'm sure when we draw the line on December 31st, 2015, we'll have a growth of 1%. Only those who don't know or don't want to show it can't compare countries of different size and population. With all due respect to our neighbours, the neighbouring countries of Montenegro, so one factory in Montenegro will dramatically increase the growth of gross social product. One factory that may not be enough for New Belgrade alone, but is enough for one Montenegro. You can't just pick up your grandmothers and frogs like that. But this, as we did this year from forecasting minus 0.5% of negative growth, led to positive growth and 1%, so next year, as this budget predicted, we're going to get to 1.75. And I believe, believing in industriousness and correctness and honesty, the knowledge and skill of this government of the Republic of Serbia, that this growth next year will be 2.5%, in 2017 3%, and then Serbia really is going through developed, organised, decent European countries. It's not true that in 2009, everyone had a bigger fall. You know, in 2009, I was visiting China. They had one single drop of what they had, that year they expected not to have exactly double-digit growth, because until that year 2009, they had 11, 12, 13%, but that year, they had 9% of the growth, but not the negative, positive one, while Serbia with its hands in its pockets, but others, confusing citizens of the Republic of Serbia with certain bomb attacks that Serbia would profit in the crisis and that this chance, that the crisis would not even tick us up, led us to no single measure, you did not implement a heavy measure. I wish you'd had enough maturity, preparedness and courage to carry out the measures, we'd be so fat today, on the green branch. No, you didn't have the courage, but that's why we're doing this for both you and all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because this is the only way and only way for Serbia to become a decent, normal, stable state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41474	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41475	Thank you, Chairman. In 2009, GDP fell 3.1% and then increased in 2010 and was 0.6%, in order to be 1.4% in 2011. What was the government doing? First, she made an agreement in 2009 with the IMF, i.e. at the end of 2008. The same three-year arrangement was then implemented as is being conducted today by this government. Am I lying? Am I not telling the truth when I say that? That there was a mission of the IMF by the end of 2009, 2010? What was she doing? What was she doing here in Serbia? What was the government doing in 2009? If you remember, she cut her salary. It reduced wages 10% per year and then provided investment in 2009 and two billion foreign investments in 2010 billion and 133 million in 2011 and 3.3 billion euros in 2011. That's what the government did. That's what it says here in this table of the Ministry of Finance. I haven't invented anything, not a single number, like I was listening to a colleague say, so don't compare the economy of Serbia and other countries in the region because we're different. And then compare Serbia to China, China's largest country in the world. And what's China's growth this year? What's the growth of social product in China this year? How much? Seven, eight percent? Well, where Serbia is, we should compare with China. I wish we could compare ourselves to China. We think there's room and it's in the end line saying how the budget was planned last year. Tax revenues were planned for two, i.e. this year by 2.9% higher. We think there's some space planned for 5.5% of the revenue from next year's achievement to be a little more. That's what we're talking about, and we're not insulting anyone. We just want to encourage the government to work on it and hear how he thinks to do it, except he raises his taxes on alcoholic beverages and on fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41476	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41477	Thank you, Your Honor. It's amazing what economic facts we're facing. On the one hand, a respected colleague said they had an increase in investment. I don't understand, Mr. Chairman, here is Mr. Babic and Mr. Arsic, who can confirm how you might have an increase in investment and a rise in GDP without increasing unemployment. Just explain to me how it's possible in the economy. With 14% unemployment in 2008, 25% in 2012, and all the time they had an increase in investment. Explain to me how it's possible. On the other hand, you said you had a three-year arrangement with the IMF. Well done. But that same IMF has been driven out of Serbia because of the elections, because no one would give you six billion euros in credit in the middle of some reforms that you tried to implement, of course, only declaratively, you forced the IMF out to try to deceive the people, increase wages and pensions, that there is no justification in these increases, except to leave debts that we only have to give on behalf of the interest next year a billion and a few euros, a billion and 300 million euros. How can you not be ashamed? And what investments did you have? Miskovic "Delezeu" sold his company, while not paying taxes to the state. Are those investments? Is that an orderly system, is that an economy? Well done. So, we've heard great experts, since we've seen the kind of experts we have in the field of law, these are obviously economic experts, who say they've had an increase in investment, but I just don't understand how we got to 25% unemployment, if everything's shot at by investment. Factorys everywhere, people simply, we had a labour deficit, give the people you're lying to? Who are you kidding? You're talking if you need anything that suits you better. When the IMF, the World Bank, the IBRD, when everyone, the entire public, the Fiscal Council, says serious economic reforms are being implemented in Serbia that will have good results in the years to come and that everyone will be able to feel it. You don't want to admit it, but you're pulling out some investments, and we know who and how and how and how the governments of the former regime are made and how laws are made. Who had the interests of these laws, and eventually when you made it possible for someone to find it appropriate to pay taxes to the state, that the people might have some of it. There, those were your results. Those were your results. When we talk about construction and how you built the highway, we saw. The infrastructure, all in our country, you go, you go into the field, you run a little on the highway, and then you get back into the field. There, that was during your regime. What are you talking about? I'll remind our citizens once again, they need to know, JAT lost and was losing 30 to 50m euros every year. We've been throwing money into the well, today you're not good with the "Er Serbia" that gives and earns in our country's budget. How can you not be ashamed? Everything you've touched, you've destroyed. You had an incredible opportunity to do good privatisations, to have these development budgets that you're talking about, not to get into a situation where you have 400,000 people who have lost their jobs, but to hire 400,000 people, as you promised. To exploit this economic crisis of the world, which you said would be the only way around Serbia and China, and then, gentlemen, what were the ministers doing at the time? Here, I'll just briefly show you this picture, or photograph, saw several times, it's a beautiful building, respected president of the pasture, and then you wonder how someone could build this. Well, I'll tell you now. For example, if we look at what the media wrote in 2012 and 2013, for example in 2010 when purchasing a mobile system, radio and relay connections, via "Yugochemia" on course differences, one minister, said, who led the defence damaged the country by 270 million dinars. That's not what I invented, that's what the Evening News reported on July 18th 2012, and then we have in 2010, too, the defence minister paid for an upgrade of 850,000 euros, which is four times the price of software itself when it's being purchased. No wonder we have penthouse pastures, we have such beautiful buildings, and who knows how many examples we've had in Serbia wherever you manage the budget, wherever you manage finance. How can you not be ashamed? You're talking, about investments, you're talking about they've been increased, they've been increased, they've been fired from work, and the unemployment has been getting bigger and bigger every day. Now that you look at the numbers, not what Babic, Jovicic or any minister says, but you have the exact numbers and data, when you see that unemployment in Serbia today is 16.7%, and that in your time of 2012 it was 25%, it says two very important facts and we can argue that we can show and prove it. It is to fight one side of the grey economy, that we want workers to be reported, that workers have contributions and that the state goes what it belongs to, so that we can develop and that each of the next budgets is our development budget, on the one hand. On the other hand, we didn't deceive the citizens, we didn't deceive anyone in our country, we saved, we acted responsibly, and what was unknown to you for a decade or a foreign word, we were and we will remain honest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41478	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word has a minister, Mr Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41479	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, have been listening here for two days now to debates and discussions in parliament, and it would be right to say something, given that this is the 24 budget for me, and as a MP and as a minister, the 24 budget that is being adopted and in adopting that budget is very active. Therefore, there has always been a debate of the position-opposition. Always the opposition attacks the budget, always the opposition has suggestions that something should be different, than it is, whether there are arguments, whether there is no, it is important to talk, talk and convince for hours etc. It has always been that whoever received the citizens' trust forms a government, whoever formed a government, proposes a budget, and democratically, most of the votes the budget was adopted and it has always been so. No one has ever said that this Serbia should not adopt the budget, that Serbia should get into problems etc, and that is not right. This country needs a serious budget and we now have one very serious budget for adoption. We'd like it to be bigger, more investment, but it can't. You can't spend what you don't have. I know you gentlemen well, and I've been to at least one government with all of you. I know all of you well, and I know who he was when he ran the finances, and how and whose cabinets they were.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41480	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41481	I remember one government when Miskovic sent, the entire cabinet was his, complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41482	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41483	From the Delta Bank came the entire leadership and took over Serbia's budget. Now, let me explain to you, this government that went out with...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41484	Mr. Minister, please finish the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41485	... The draft budget has been very serious about what it can do and what it can't do very realistically with one proposal. I met many finance ministers, co-operated with them, state secretaries and Mr Vujovic, until he became a minister, I never met him in my life, and so many who are present in the hall for so many years, but Vujovic made a very serious proposal for a budget. Don't just, because I know how seriously this budget was done by him and Mr. Mijailovic and the others and how many times in the government weighs around every little thing, how many times there have been discussions with the prime minister about every dinar, wherever it may be, it's been given and as much as possible, it's been given. The Minister of Industry has intervened a hundred times, give me more, can't, but what he can't, can't. What he can do, he's given. The most he can give is, it's arranged as best. Please don't tell me what it is or what it used to be. I remember perfectly, a government formerly one of the worst governments in my life, in one day she charged a billion-and-600m-euro Mobtela, 360m euros from the sale of "The Slave Houses of Belgrade", and for the VIP of the third operator 300m euros, and all that came together in a few days. In those days, Kostunica returned his mandate and the elections came. I asked a hundred times later in the Assembly, and the money went missing in the election campaign. Calculate, two highways have disappeared through Serbia. There's a government who's never taken care of what's going on. We planned to do some infrastructure facilities with these money, but the money was spent. So don't attack now, you all know what happened this year, what happened. What's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's-it's... This is a serious government, Aleksandar Vucic is a serious prime minister, he came out with one proposal, Mr Vujovic had special talks for days with each minister and they all asked for the maximum and he did as much as he could and discussed but very correctly, very fine and understood this budget as the only one to adopt him as soon as possible and to make Serbia work, builds. People are waiting for work. Don't speak from Kuline Ban now, I know it best, and don't ask me to tell you what it was when and how it was done and in which government and which minister was the finance and who did what. It would be very ugly to go back 10-15 years, but with this budget, I hope Serbia has a future next year. If you can fix something, if you have some good and smart amendment, so no one, here are the MPs, all of them are smart, smart people, come from certain backgrounds, they'll accept that amendment of yours. The government may reject it, and the MPs may accept it. Therefore, don't be so nervous, don't just chase, attack and yell – the budget is not good. Nothing, just cancel the budget, and what do we do after? I welcome you once again and thank you for your attention, but please lower the ball. It is known that the opposition is doing its part of the job, it is her main that when the budget is done, but I hope the position will listen. Here, the MPs will decide, they will vote and we will respect it democratically. Let's not say – nothing's wrong. The blackest thing is to say nothing is wrong and I know how many people have worked and how much effort they've made to make this the best it can at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41486	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Professor Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41487	It could be 106, but here's 158. So, the Honorable Chairman, you hurt both of these members. The previous speaker, Minister Mr Velimir Ilic, the portfolio-free minister spoke aside on his meetings with Miskovic, and he also spoke past the time... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41488	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I understand what your... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Allow me, I have two minutes. You don't, up to two minutes, Mr. Veselinović. I understood what your remark was that I violated the Rules of Procedure. In a way, you have witnessed that I have warned the minister that the time has passed, but as the President of Parliament has already said, the government has 180 minutes at its disposal, we are taking that time, as we are taking away from the MPs. We think this is very important, allow Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. I'm gonna have to take your five minutes or your amendments take time. Mr. Veseinovic, I felt that what Mr. Ilic is saying is very important for the citizens of Serbia, it is important to hear where the money from that budget went missing, because it is huge money from the citizens of Serbia and I will make sure that the minister did not speak in principle and that for the first time he appeared as a member of the government. I let her finish her presentation until the end. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. I thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Ciric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41489	Thank you, Your Honor. I see that again, looks like we're going a little beyond the order, so that's why I'm going to speak for my colleagues, Kiric. A colleague, Ciric, with this amendment, wanted to increase subsidies for the Railways, which increased by six billion in 2016 to a share related to the student standard and to increase the share from 2.5 billion to 8.5 billion dinars. The government promised more effective work by public enterprises. For railways alone, subsidies were increased by six billion in 2016. What my colleague Ciric wanted with this amendment is to move these six billion to this part, i.e. with these six billion to allow all primary and secondary schools in Serbia, which he has around 850,000 to have a free snack in 2016, but we will propose that in the future. So I'd like to ask you ministers to consider this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41490	Thank you. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers and respected MPs, apparently everything that comes from the opposition, and above all with the intention of improving the quality of this budget, is welcomed to the knife. Members, above all, of the Social Democratic Party – Boris Tadic does not intend to demagogue or falsely, or some phrases do something that does not only benefit this budget but also the states of Serbia. For this reason, I have submitted an amendment, given that total revenues and receipts are increased based on the sale of non-financial assets of 30 billion dinars, so that the total revenues amount to just over a thousand billion. I believe that this projected revenue of the budget can be achieved by a higher fee of excise duties, given that the government has announced an increase in GDP, a higher turnover of goods and services, and especially by raising or already raising excise duties these days and extending the list of goods and services paid for by excise duties. The amendment, or better to say, would have an effect on the budget deficit, as it would have fallen from 87 billion to 57 billion dinars, and the overall fiscal deficit would have fallen from 121 billion dinars to 91 billion, which would eventually stabilise the public finances system of the Republic of Serbia. The explanation I got for refusing this amendment is odd to me at the very least. The logical question is whether this government intends to fight the gray economy, because, unfortunately, from this argument, the conclusion is – no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41492	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanovic. The First Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41493	Compared to my colleagues, I seem to have had the most conservative proposal to increase budgets, budget revenues, only 6.6 billion dinars, believing that there is room for better collection, above all by raising the efficiency of VAT collection and other measures, which the government, if it wants to reform Serbian finances, should and can do. The amendment has been rejected with a similar explanation that the planned level of payment is in line with good budgetary practice, i.e. a cautious and conservative approach to income projection. I would ask the purpose of this debate. Of the 217 amendments to this law, only three have been accepted, none of which are opposition. All amendments to the opposition have been rejected, all down to one and apparently not analysed in the amendments, have only been rejected because they come from the opposition. You can see that in the next amendments. You'll hear arguments when we get those amendments. I'm just sorry that these two days we haven't heard anything about the results of the programming that was the first time, we listened to it, introduced last year. We haven't talked about any programme of any ministries to see if the expected results were achieved, to what extent, what was taken to make it better next year. We are arguing here, unfortunately, still thinking about the line budget and I accept it as our opposition's mistake. But we simply haven't heard here about any new programme proposed by the new budget, not one new policy. The Minister of Social Affairs has said here several times that the budget for social contributions in 2016 is the same as in 2015. But in no word did he say whether anything would change in social protection, in the way that citizens achieve social protection. I have read the World Bank report and it speaks very extensively about, say, the state of social protection, the way the state of Serbia is achieving social protection. Well, he says -- out of his money, 23% goes to fifths of the poorest, and 28% goes to the richest citizens of Serbia. This is the worst picture in all of Europe, and I haven't heard from the minister responsible for it, either the prime minister or the finance minister, is there any other way to grant social assistance? As Serbia's state will cope with growing poverty, 25.6% of Serbian citizens today are at risk of poverty. Over 30% of young people live on the poverty line. And I don't think it's enough to say it's going to be the same money, because that money isn't being used the best way. You've got that from the World Bank, too, so if we take that, as some criterion to measure success. We're not talking about it, we're going back to some past and we're discussing, like this is a line budget. And it's my biggest offense to all of us and I'm sorry we spent these two days and probably another two days on that kind of debate. I don't see citizens living better than this budget. I don't see what the government's program is to ensure a better life for the citizens. I haven't heard a single word from a single minister, nothing. And I hope that we may be able to change the course of our discussion to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41494	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41495	Thank you very much. Now I want to stress the exact opposite of all previous comments, with this proposal of yours on the programming budget, I am 100% in agreement. We've done the preparations. Since July, we have had detailed meetings in several countries that are very advanced in introducing programming budgeting, including Ireland. We're getting ready to move on to it, but we've estimated that this requires much more preparation than we've had resources, freedom and, believe me, a degree of freedom within the programme that we're working with the fund. So we're ready, we accept that this is, let's say, approaching programming, that we're putting in the line budget programs, but they're not defined as they should, they don't have indicators, they don't have depth, etc. So this part where we can agree on 100%, but we should have a special document that will determine the time sequence of steps that we need to take to get to programming. We started in 2005. We had five, six pilot ministries, and we didn't even get where we were planning to get there because, here, health care is a good example, because in the Republic budget there's only part of the cost of health care, to move on to program budgeting, this equipment, which is being spoken of by Minister Loncar, is to be included in the funds and environment in the Republic Fund, so that we know which home of health, which hospital these equipment is going to, which are patients, which are the parameters, which are education. So that requires much greater preparation. I think we're all ready for that, but that requires much more preparation and much more time. I want to support this idea of going systematically to work from January of this year to get at least one fundamental step closer to programming. Then we'll not only have progress, but we'll know where the surpluses are. When we divide these things into software, then we'll know where we have too many people, too few people, where we lack resources, where we lack indicators, why we can target better, better targeted to help those groups that really need help, where health care is the main problems, where education is the main problems, how to rationalize the system of schools, etc. So, I totally agree, but let's start from January of the month to work seriously to be in the next budget not in the programming budget, but one big step closer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41496	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41497	Thank you. The amendment I have made concerns an increased amount for subsidies, and so on to the Railways. As the draft budget is above 16 billion, the amendment seeks what is common when it comes to such proposals in the budget, with our idea of moving to the Ministry of Defence for various jobs carried out in that ministry with a lack of money, whether it is a material position for the defence ministry or the Serbian Army, or whether it is a material need to carry out all the jobs that the Ministry of Defence has. But it's great that it's just before I try to propose this amendment to the Minister, I finally have a word on the programming budget, because this amendment that I have proposed would also require that I explain it by indicator. I can no longer agree with the idea put forward by MP Marko Djurisic and you ministers, that as soon as we really do the programming. I'll memorize you, so any division you take, the division of 24th education, science and technological development, I understand what the indicators are and how it should look. When you read carefully, then you see, it has a goal, and the indicator, there is no one who will be the user of that goal. That's how it is at the Department of Defense. That's why my amendment is only a sum, but this is finally the topic we were supposed to be dealing with. I was going to ask us to agree or at least to hear that if the budget really works, then the anger we communicate to convince that the budget will not strengthen it, on the contrary, is completely unproductive, or the comparison with any period of any government, 2008, 2012, 2001, 2004, 2007, anyway, that I am not talking about the governments of the 1990s, but this kind of conversation, to involve the National Assembly in really turning the line budget into a programme is the only useful topic that should be discussed on the budget. I don't have any particular hope that you're going to accept "moving," I know that's not what it's called, with the division of subsidies increased for the Railways for the Ministry of Defence, but this amendment has been chosen. Then I heard an explanation that I hope is said at speed, because there's a lot of emotion talking about the budget here. You know, if the budget is really good, people feel it, you don't need to particularly praise it. This one's not like that, and that's where we get along for a lot of reasons. I can't tell you if you'd be better off doing it by any other minister, I doubt it, but fine. We heard two reasons for the increased subsidies to the Railways. First of all, we have 15% of the need for participation in the Russian loan, which I can't put together. That's what the Prime Minister said yesterday. The second argument is, when the same is shared with us in the principle debate, that there are hidden incomes. As I'm sorry that we're not talking about the programming budget anymore, I'm so sorry that it's a covert income remark, I know, and you know that it's probably about the funds we can use, but we won't, and when you say hidden income in the debate, it's not good for anyone who understands the budget. I don't quote you, but I quote the Prime Minister. You can look at yesterday's stenogram. I am only giving this as an observation, and I am grateful for the effort you promise to make in the programming budget, so this billion, which I think is necessary for the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia, will be explained by the indicators of the users, and then we will know that every dinar from the budget is spent in the best way. It's the hardest part of making each budget, maybe even harder than having a tax base and a good fiscal policy on how to make a program, not to lose any of the dinars you have in the budget at your expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41498	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41499	Thank you, Your Honor. To tell you the truth, I wouldn't answer if we didn't hear some amazing things here, and now about the welfare. You, Mr. Lonchar, will correct me, I'm not a doctor, but I know so much that when a man has lung cancer, he can't be treated with brafen or syrup, but you have to have severe chemo to apply to him or to irradiate him in order to possibly survive. We were, like a state, in that stage, like a patient with cancer on his lungs. It was about 2012 and in such a situation now someone is telling us about social givings, I don't know what it is, and it's really a great success that we've come to a point where we don't have to cut social spending at all. Not a single social giving, not a child's supplement has been reduced, I'm even hoping it might be increased, which may be a great success. Instead of being appreciated, someone now criticises and says – you have less social giving and I don't know what. We're talking about how hard people live, but you gentlemen should tell us why 61% of the pensioners in this country, and we got that from you as a legacy, has a pension below 25,000 dinars? No one's talking about it. You keep talking about how pensions got cut. They dropped 39% of pensioners. I agree, it's certainly a blow, but 61% of the pensioners, you left us, receiving below 25,000 dinars. You have pensions that are 12,000, 13,000 dinars, which is a disaster, of course. Who can live with that? It's your legacy. That is what you have left for us, and ask of us now, that you do not pay the people for it. Where do we pay when you leave us an empty register? We are not to this extent irresponsible to the state to be in charge abroad to pay someone a pension. That economic policy was led by Bozidar Djelic. I remember when he once boasted on a television show, he says - we've raised a fantastic loan, we'll have to pay our pensions. Who boasts about it? Credit when you pick up should be held by your head, because you have to pay back, and you've boasted that you've raised a good loan, so you'll have to pay off your pensions. It's that irresponsible and scandalous policy you've been running. We're talking about the IRS here. In your day, no one has ever paid taxes from these tycoons alive. Nobody paid their taxes alive. Earlier, a colleague, Jovicic, mentioned the sale of "Maxia" to Delese. Where did Miskovic pay that tax? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Serbia. I'm not sure. He took the money out to some exotic island. Don't tell the truth, it's not true, and he didn't pay anything anywhere. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: In Serbia, 25m euros. ) Otherwise, it is one of the biggest taxpayers. Just please don't throw it away. Look how many tycoones there were tax debtors and you shouldn't have knocked anyone on the door. This is the first government to go on a serious tax charge and we've never had a higher tax charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41500	Please, Mr. Djukanovic, you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41501	Of course, because, among other things, this is about the amendment itself. We're talking work inspections. It is, among other things, one part of the decline in unemployment is because they've started the labour inspections to work and that people who worked on black, that actually the owners make them report them. In your day, no one was allowed to do it, no one wanted to do it, after all. We've been working on black as a good day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41502	I'll have to interrupt you if you don't return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41503	I'm just asking that when you endure these amendments, you don't go with that kind of demagogy because it doesn't drink water. You left us exactly what I've now declared, told, and I simply ask you not to deceive more people, not to deceive the people. There are indicators that are exact. You say we have a small growth of 0.9%, and in your time it was a decline and you're now talking about how we have the lowest growth in the region. We have a dynamic growth, but in any case this amendment should not be supported and I agree with the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41504	The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41505	Thank you. I understood that you tried to apply the first position of a member of 106 and remind the MP that he had to talk about the agenda. On the agenda is my amendment that speaks of the amount to be transferred from the railway subsidies to the position of the Ministry of Defence. I am grateful for your attempt, but I must express my regret that the MP has failed to follow the session and listen to you when he tells you what it is. I'm not asking us to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41506	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41507	Thank you very much. I'll just take a minute. It's about the amount, on the side of three budgets, 17 billion 510 currently on the railway subsidy line. It consists of two sums. One sum is 11 billion for the so-called. the operational costs of the railway, and the second amount is 6.5 billion you mentioned, which is for participation in the Russian railway loan to be used in the following year. This first sum was estimated to have to continue this year, as the railways entered the restructuring process. It is divided into holding, infrastructure, freight and passenger traffic and is expected to enter the core reform programme with the help of the World Bank under structural loan. Therefore, this year we justify, we intend to reduce the railway subsidies even more, but this year we continue to allow this programme to be defined and implemented. It's a sharp reform program. There's a lot of resistance, but I think I'm an optimist, and I expect something to be done here. This section of 6.5 billion related to participation is thus agreed. It's too late to change now. It's bad enough that 15% of the advance payment is expected, at the beginning, before using the loan, which puts pressure on the budget more than usual. It would be better if it were agreed to be 15% in situations, not in advance, but if the dynamics of using the loan were as planned, then it would be within one year. The problem will arise if we separate the funds now, so don't use the credit, then we finance them in fact, but that's something we inherited. We're in the process of applying for an extension of that loan and we'll see if we can get better conditions. Zoran is not here to tell you. We had a meeting in Moscow. I think we're on the right track to negotiate a loan extension and better terms for the use of credit, and I hope that loan gives us what we expect of it. We had to plan this the way it is, since these are the existing conditions we had no other choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41508	Thank you very much. The MPs Mr Jovan Markovic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 1st amendment, in the same text. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41509	Dear Minister Vujovic, I really want to sincerely believe that you want to make an effort to have a programming budget in the following year, but you also have to show courage and that between this great programme budget diapasion and what Mr Babic has just talked about supporting this budget, in Uzic at the theatre a few nights ago, you say it is not simply normal and possible. Mr Vujovicu, we have tried through this amendment to remove the large gaps that occurred in this budget, but you did not appreciate it. You rejected over 400 amendments and did not consider them. For several hours of debate in this assembly, which was dedicated precisely to saying that the problem of poverty of Serbian citizens was opened through this budget, you did not appreciate it. You allowed the example of the theatre in Uzic, from a few nights ago, where the citizens of Bajina Basta, Nova Varosha and other smaller places around Užica were simply forced to come to the theater. The employees of public enterprises, Mr. Minister, had to come to that support meeting. At some point, they didn't know if it was a coup...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41510	Mr. Markovicu, I have just been warned by your Member, Mrs. Komic, that I am allowing something to be said that is not part of this amendment that is on the agenda. I ask you, the same goes for Mr. Djukanovic, to either return to the amendment, or I will have to interrupt you, since neither Užice nor the theatre, nor what you've been talking about for a minute has anything to do with the amendment you have submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41511	So, as for the amendments that we have submitted, it concerns the application of the law, that is, the problem that arises from the transfer to the AP Vojvodina, and we felt that you must pay attention that the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to finance basic education, i.e. persons employed in primary education. You've ignored our proposal, and I think you've made a big mistake about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41512	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mr Babic, a replica, because it is mentioned by name and last name, the head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41513	Since I see the amendment promoter at the theater wasn't, that's too bad. He could have learned a lot, but I'm going to ask you, Mr. Chairman - and where is the authorised representative of the Democratic Party? Where's Dragan Sutanovac? What is more important today and tonight than the budget, the most important law that defines life in the Republic of Serbia in 2016? Are the singers – “Is not one woman’s life”? Whether singers may be – "Divine Woman", "Stupid You", "Smile, Laugh," but I'm sure he's particularly affected by these songs – "They lie that time heals everything" and "Tonight Paradise, Tomorrow End". Those songs probably hit him. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia have MPs such as the authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group who chose the Miroslav Ilic concert instead of citizens of the Republic of Serbia's 2016 budget tonight. So much for the relationship and the parliament, so much for the attitude towards all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is just an extension of this demeaning that Dragan Sutanovac has been working on social networks every day referring to and "pouring" some rude "tweets", some "twits" who are not really fit to refer to a lady, one woman, any, from any political party, and now continues to demean all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who pay him to do work here in parliament. No, he chose to sing the songs of Miroslav Ilic, tonight at the concert.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41514	I thank you, Mr. Babic, but you must understand, Mr. Markovic may not have that information where the president of the parliamentary group is authorized. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Why do you think you have the right to a replica, Mr. Markovic? You didn't mention it. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Proposer of the Amendment. ) Mr. Markovic, your name and name are not mentioned, as you mentioned. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Proposer of the Amendment. I don't care, it's not just you, it's the promoter... Mr. Markovic, let me make something clear. So Mr. Ivan Markovic and Mr. Janko Veselinović are also proposing this amendment. I, if the name and last name are not mentioned, cannot know which amendment promoter Mr. Babic thinks, you must understand. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: You can see Mr Babic laughing sweetly. I can't give someone a word based on someone's smile. The amendment is proposed by the National MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41515	Apropo laughs say – when the last laughs, the sweetest laughs. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: is this a threat? I'll use my five minutes and please don't interrupt me in my seven minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41516	Mr. Minister, it's the same amendment. Mr. Markovic and Mr. Veselinovic are also proposing. When it's over, Mr. Veselinović, you'll be right. Mr. Veselinović, I am sorry that you are trying to begin the debate in your first amendment, because what you just said the MPs have seen as a threat. I cannot allow as chairman to make threats in the National Assembly. Please don't do this anymore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41517	The citizens heard well that I said I was asking you not to interrupt me while I explain my amendment and while I'm using my seven minutes. I didn't threaten anyone, but I'm asking for my right to be denied. So how are the funds allocated to this Article 1 charged? By the citizens of Serbia in Nis, Belgrade, Srlig, Novi and Stari Pazova, Belgrade, paying 18 dinars more expensive than the citizens of Austria, the citizens of Vienna. The citizens of Surdulice, Mr Vujovic, are paying 18 dinars more expensive fuel than the citizens of Austria and other EU countries. That's how you charge the budget, Mr. Vujovic. In this budget you've calculated new excises and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41518	You can talk, but about the amendment you've submitted. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: This is absolutely about the amendment. ) Here in yours, if you like, I can also read in your time and your amendment. It's got nothing on it. It's got nothing on it. It's got nothing on it. It's got nothing on it. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Leave me to how I will... I can't leave Mr. Veselinović, if I couldn't leave Mr. Markovic, if I couldn't leave him to Mr. Djukanovic, I can't leave him to you either. You are not privileged in this National Assembly. The same rule applies to Mr Djukanovic and Mr Markovic, as well as to you, and to all other MPs in this assembly. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic. You've got six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41519	So I can read figures that will not mean much to Serbian citizens. So the amount of 266,560,964,000,00 is total expenditure. In order to make the expenses, you have to have income, and the revenues are charged through tax collection. In order to get a tax charge, you have to have an effective state, an effective tax system. To share this expropriation, you must also charge taxes from the escalating stars. You know how I would do that if I were Mr. Vujovic? If one day the Turnover Movement comes to power I'll tell you Mr. Vujovic how I'll do it. So, I would invite Mr. Vujovic to a concrete estranged star and I would say, "Good afternoon, you had a concert here, you sang under that and that tent, you performed your musical entertainment program here and here, you charged a million and a half dinars this year, it's 10,000 euros, it's 1,000 euros your tax, you have 15 days to pay it. If you don't pay him, we'll file criminal charges for tax evasion, goodbye. You know what your tax officials do? They invite them and make "selfies" with them. That entertains the public for 15-20 days. It's yours, Mr. Vujovicu, tax officials, that's your tax administration. That's why there's no income. That's why we need 18 dinars more expensive than Austria. That's why there's no money for schools. That's why you're firing the educators. There is no money for this expropriation, so then the AP Vojvodina budget is pumped with fictitious incomes that do not fall into real income, but these are transfer funds just to cloud your incompetence, Mr Vujovic. You can get up now and get out of the O.R., like you did last time, and answer me why don't you have an effective tax administration? Answer me when we're going to fly that train that Alexander Vukic flew...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41520	The MPs are rightfully insolent and are already seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I will rightly have to accept that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, because I allow you to speak of something that is not the subject of your amendment. I can't let you do that... (Balsa Bozovic throws out of place. ) Mr Bozovic, are you Mr. Veselinović's lawyer? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: Yes. Yes, but as a lawyer, you have to know how to get him into your office to get the power of attorney and everything else. So you have no right to throw Mr. Bozovic out of place. You already have one warning, don't make me get another one. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: Threatening? ) Well, I will have to give you a warning if you do not allow Mr. Markovic, Mr. Vesenovic, to continue speaking. You are disturbing MPs who expose their amendments to Mr Bozovic. Mr. Veselinović, would you like to proceed on your amendment? Here you go. A lot of MPs reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure at your presentation, Mr. Veselinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41521	I guess the Turnover Movement is a big challenge for the SNS and it won't be a missing replica, as it took four ministers yesterday to explain the facts...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41522	It's not worth it, Mr. Veselinovic, you don't want to talk about your amendment. I must give my word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41523	Thank you, Chairman. A member of 107, not only of course, of what you pointed out to him, but he, as a fellow MP here, insulted the IRS officers and you didn't warn him at all. He said that instead of doing their job, they were taking pictures with the singers. They're the same tax officers who are employed in their time. I don't know who he's talking about. Why are you insulting people? At the end of the day, we have a shortage of people in the IRS who are inspectors and who could do the job because they made the IRS exactly that full of administrations and less operatives. But so insulting the IRS officers is illegal and I ask you next time to give him a warning of insulting the workers who work in the IRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41524	Thank you. I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure because I warned Mr. Veselinovic. In the end, I had to take away his word, because he didn't want to answer his amendment. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, well, it's quite clear that the proposed amendment will not be accepted and I don't think there's anyone to order a problem in this regard and my call is heading towards the rejection of this amendment, therefore. The amendment that has been submitted to us by a group of citizens can at the very least be characterised as problematic. Since we of the SNS parliamentary group are carefully reading the amendments and other bases from the agenda, I must say I have not missed a few significant mistakes, Mr. Chairman. As the promoter of this amendment, it says here – Ambassador Professor Dr. Janko Veselinović - Movement for a Turnover. I must, Mr. Chairman, ask you again if the MP has changed his name and name? And why am I asking this? The other MPs who propose amendments in all order, from all other parliamentary groups when they propose an amendment, are signed by name and last name, eventually placing their membership on the parliamentary group and their signature. When Mr. Janko Veselinovic proposes an amendment, he signed as an MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic - Movement for Turnover. Now, I can't help but ask – why does the prefix of its functions have a problem with the expression – the people? He is the only Messenger to be signed as an apostle without a Messenger of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41526	Mr. Markovic, I have to interrupt you because you're not talking about the amendment. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41527	So, just one sentence because I can't really separate this papazijan that you told me in a few sentences, let me tell you -- Serbia will have a price of gasoline after this indexation that will be 1.2 euro cents higher than before. If you think that's the end of the world, then we can talk about it. So 1.2 euro per cent higher. Compared to Hungary, it'll be cheaper. Compared to Bosnia, it'll be cheaper. Compared to Croatia, it will be cheaper. So I don't know what you're talking about. Can you find any other country, any country, no one will fill gas in Serbia and go to Hungary and Hungary to Serbia because the difference is too small. I don't understand what you're really talking about. Secondly, this amendment, which you and Mr Jovan Markovic have proposed here, is an amendment that is directly conflicting with the definition of Article 7 of this Act and the Budgetary System Act, which says – dedicated transfers to finance expenditure for persons employed in education in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in the amounts set out in this law are considered the revenue of Vojvodina. What you think is that once Serbia pays direct employees by a matchmaking transaction, then after asking for more transfers, we will be able to discuss this only when the Law on the financing of Vojvodina is passed. Otherwise, this is unacceptable to me. This is illegal and unacceptable. You can pick up as much mic as you want. So this really isn't right. I accept all correct suggestions, but what you're proposing is the simplest thing about numbers to avoid restrictions that are written in the law, the Constitution and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41528	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Replication to Mr. Markovic's presentation. The name and last name are mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41529	Look, I was talking about actual numbers, numbers, revenues, expenses. When it comes to my name and name, the name of the political organisation that I represent, I am proud of both with the title and the Movement for Turning, the movement of honest people and we are opposed to what it says in this budget because this could be what Minister Vujovic says, a blur. You don't know the receipts. There are known expenditures, but they are directed past development, past production. In Serbia, there will be even worse lives in the coming period. We have the smallest economic growth in the region, but when I say -- in the region, it means all over Europe. So we have the smallest economic growth. What does that mean? It means that the planes flying to America will drive our best-quality people. That means we won't have a doctor in Bor, not in Majdanpek, not in Sremska Mitrovica, not in Novi Sad in a year, and that happens. A thousand doctors took this year, requested permission, or a licence to go to the white world and Mr. Vujovic, you are responsible for this policy, not Mr. Markovic. Mr. Markovic is representing SNS policy and that's fine, but you're the minister. You have made this poor budget and you should resign to Mr Vujovic as an honorable man. As an honorable man to endure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41530	Time. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41531	I'd ask you to answer me, or tell people when 1,000 of them have endured how long it's gone, since you keep talking... (Janko Veseinovic throws.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41532	Mr. Veselinović, don't throw it away. That's rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41533	That's one thing. The other thing, everyone should know, you're right, you'd actually be right. We'd be missing thousands of doctors if we hadn't changed, if we hadn't given people specialization, if we hadn't hired them. We'd be in a serious problem if the policies were continued. You're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41534	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. Mr. Grandmother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41535	A recent discussion about how a lot of bad things will bring us direct flights to America is more like it and more like some people who first saw a train called it an iron horse, but I would warn you, Mr. Becic, to warn a fellow who doesn't know that trains don't fly, but to float because of the speed they realize and that the prime minister said that the trains in China because of the speed they realize they're not flying. But that's what trains call iron horses can't even understand. But I answered the other thing, to ask where is the authorised representative of the DS? Is Mr. Shutanovac back? It's nine and 15. So he's still at the concert. I believe this is a well-spent time for an authorised DS representative, Mr. Sutanovec. I guess he won't be able to tweet and re-send hate messages to women in Serbia, to loathe some sexist tweets and some offensive tweets against women from the SNS, but also against everyone else. So, of course, I will give the opportunity for an authorised DS representative to appear in the O.R. and start doing his job for which he is paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41536	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41537	There's been a lot of noise in the last hour or two. I will try to get back on the subject, and that is the Budget and Amendment Act on Article 2. There have been objections about the need to bring the budget, so that we are proposing amendments that read "clear" that this is a problem. Of course, the congregation majority is such that they can adopt the budget regardless of our position. The amendment "wipes" is one noble amendment, which means that it completely erases any trace of this speculation, glamour, matchmaking, as the minister recently called counterpart Janko Veseinovic's amendment, which is inadmissible. He's also noble because he can keep you, Mr. Minister, from making a mess happen to you, as it happened to you with that law that was supposed to allow you to buy out your grandfather's apartments for a handful of dollars. We have given amendments to that law, for each member it was written “to be deleted”. You were happy about it, too, and you said it had nothing to do with parliamentism, politics, economy, so after the president of the state, Tomisla Nikolic wiped out your entire law. A serious government would consider resigning, and a serious minister would resign without giving the possibility to bring anything back. Why is this budget proposal wrong and why does it need to be deleted? Why isn't it developmental or social? So 205 pages, you didn't know how to read collectively yesterday, so let me say it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41538	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41539	For social protection, 92.2% were predicted compared to last year. Who doesn't get it, that's 8% less.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41540	Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41541	Just two more sentences if you give me one. For capital expenditure 85.9%, for social security transfers 94.% and for cabinets 20-50% higher. That's why you don't have to vote and delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41542	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is proposed by the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41543	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President and chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the honourable ministers, I see you've been left here without ministers who are members of our government. They probably accepted our argument, ladies, and decided not to participate in this debate anymore, because we had a fight on the basis of a debate on Article 1. The bill of law here all of you, and here's an additional argument for Article 2. We suggest that all six positions of Article 2. The draft budget law is deleted, Mr Vujovic, because, with both this member and the overall draft budget law, the government has sinned on, Minister Vujovic, the rule of law. You confirmed it on December 9th at the session yesterday. Here, I quote, Mr Vujovicu, you said first – I would like to emphasise that the budget is addressed to the Assembly in time and without breaking the legal deadlines...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41544	Mr. Pavicevic, would you like a little something on the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41545	That, Mr. Becic, is about the budget deficit, and I've read Article 2, and you're not looking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41546	You are now quoting something from yesterday's debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41547	But about this member, Mr. Becic. It has to be read, Mr. Vienna, matter. So Minister Vujovic said that. We said and put in an explanation for Article 2. - not true, because it was an obligation to get this to the Assembly by November 1st. The minister himself noticed that he did not say the right thing, and then he said this - yet this year we were conditioned by the dynamics of negotiations with the IMF, we could not go to the finalisation of the draft budget until the conclusion. What does that mean? You have wronged the rule of law, with inaccessibility, non-transparentity, arbitration, irresponsibility, abandonment of reforms. Mr. Becicu, the Honorable Minister, so what more should he give up on such a bad budget proposal, respected by Mr. and Minister Vujovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41548	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I allowed it, though you're aware you weren't talking about the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41549	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've listened to the arguments of both promoters. It's just that when one of them talked about malfeasances, speculations, matches, I'm just touched. I think that proposer is the bravest man in the world, not because he's not afraid of anything, but because he's not ashamed of anything. We've found someone to tell us about speculations, matchmaking, malversions with vineyards, wine growing, chicken pelcation, in the village of Pukovce, of course. And he came and talked about the matchmaking. I believe he best understands these matches, but instead of the proposal and the explanation of the amendment, we heard about the matchmaking, about his perhaps previous occupation. The other one, whom I suggest rests his tongue and arms so much with his hands, the real ones fail...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41550	Please, Mr. Risticevic, you have to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41551	I don't know what I did wrong. Mr. Chairman, he's so real, I suggest he come on summer, be energy efficient and be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41552	Thank you for agreeing to complete the presentation. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41553	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers and Guests, colleagues and colleagues, I am reporting for an amendment that reads - is deleted, to a member of the 2nd most important law that is in the interest of citizens, a law that needs to ensure life in Serbia. Yesterday, when we spoke in principle and today in particular, honourable Minister Vujovic is trying to sincerely explain to the opposition MPs that the draft budget is real and good. I will, as my answer to an amendment like this, which I will not vote for, simply compare to an old saying - blind in the eyes. The proverb is often used in addressing someone who, in addition to clearly explained facts, often does not understand the essence or simply does not see or want to see the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41554	Thank you, Mrs. Vlahovic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41555	Just for a little while. Matching is a skill to move a ball under one match to another and no one knows where it is. It's written in these amendments and I'm behind it and I can explain it to you. Let me tell you, your first proposal "expunged" was applied and there was an invitation to bring this country into a blockade. Without budget, the state would have entered a blockade. Your current call to delete Article 2, which defines sources of gross and net deficit financing, calls for us to go into bankruptcy consciously. If you think that's wise, then go ahead and explain it to the citizens of Serbia. So, regardless of the budget, the commitments we have, which are due this year, and the commitments we have to finance, we're going to be in debt as long as it takes to get back our commitments and to finance the difference from this 121 billion that's determined by the budget, if we don't do that, then the alternative is yours to erase it -- an invitation to bankruptcy. You admire each other. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41556	You don't, Mr. Zivkovic, the minister responded only to what you said, explained your amendments and did not insult you in any way. The 3rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41557	We just heard a few minutes ago the minister making total untruth. Failure to adopt a budget by the end of the year doesn't lead to a blockade of anyone, it's not a lie -- it's a lie, because there's an institute of temporary funding. It has never happened that budget users will not be settled in the first three months unless the budget is passed, which is what happened. That's one thing. The second thing, not to adopt Article 2, Mr. Minister, doesn't mean bankruptcy, and you have no idea what bankruptcy is. Give me one land...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41558	Please, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: You're talking, you give me your word to talk about matchmaking, give me back my time.) ) Please, Mr. Zivkovic, as I warned Mr. Risticevic... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I'm talking about the amendment. ) You are not talking about the amendment by insulting the members of the government who came to explain the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2016. I cannot allow in such a way, with disrespect, to address the members of the government. I know it's your manners, but don't, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41559	So there's no possibility of bankruptcy. Bankrupt is incompetence of payment. The introduction of a temporary funding institute is not lost, Mr. Economists, experts. You know that better than I do, and it's learned in the entertainment center for the economy, not in high sciences, and with the high and deep experience you have. It's the introduction of panic among citizens. So we're asking to delete because this is a bad budget, every member of it. Temporary funding is an inter-step to allow for bankruptcy, whichever would have been in no way, as two, three years ago, the state was not in front of bankruptcy. Tell me one European country that's been bankrupt for the past 25 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41560	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41561	Tell me any world state that went bankrupt. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41562	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has been made by the MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, who proposed the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Bečić, Honored Ministers and Honorable Minister Vujovic, Government, Explaining the content of Article 3. The bill keeps calling for the IMF's praises. Dear gentlemen, in the October 2015 IMF report, therefore this year, it says that in 2016, Mr Vujovic, deeper structural reforms must be made. That is what the IMF report says, to which you are calling, and from the words of the government's representatives not only today, but also yesterday, Minister Vujovic, here in the Assembly, we have noticed and concluded that these deeper structural reforms, respected gentlemen, will not be. Gentlemen, you are, therefore, in the distance with the IMF, when we talk about the content of Article 3 of this Bill in the budget and the draft budget law in full, and we have now revealed to you, Minister Vujović, here. You are calling for praise, and the report says that something else is expected, and you say here today – there is no one else, so how do you appeal to praise, Minister Vujovic? Look, this disclosure, gentlemen, may be one of the people's MPs in the ruling coalition resembles destruction, but I think the most precise term that we can describe is the government's actions and the actions of the forwarding majority here tonight -- deconstruction, gentlemen. We have deconstructed, based on the debate on the draft budget law, what this government is doing. It calls for praise, does the opposite of what is expected, for example. The IMF report of October 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41564	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41565	So give the truth here so we can tell it once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41566	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41567	This is the section of our policies. Here it has now been shown that the amendment's proposings say – temporary funding is better than budget funding. Gentlemen, there is no transparency in spending funds in temporary financing. Well, I know you're used to it, the lights go out, and then you spend the money the way you want. We get more on the other side of it, they say. That's right. So we're not going to turn off the lights, we're turning on additional reflectors and these additional reflectors are both the IMF and the World Bank and every possible kind of monitoring because we want to treat the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in a fair and responsible manner. The second grade, it turned out to be a better bankruptcy than public finances that are clean as a pharmacy. So imagine when we are persuaded by the MPs of the amendment that it is better to go bankrupt than to be a normal, modern, decent, rich state. Now, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching this transmission, here is how our policies differ, which is why we are not tens, hundreds and thousands of times better not only in support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also in honesty and in relation to business. Finally, I ask – and where is the authorised representative of the DS? Is Dragan Sutanovac back from the concert or is it lack of DS policy and lack of alternative and lack of proposal, lack of anything, so it is more expensive to have a concert about the cost of citizens of the Republic of Serbia than to discuss the budget here and the citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41568	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41569	Here, we heard that no state seems to be bankrupt. Here, we'll remember Argentina. Even last year she went bankrupt for 13 years, so, Mr. Vujovic, I suppose you could explain it to someone who doesn't know much about it. (Zoran Zivkovic: I'd like him to explain.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41570	Please don't throw it away, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41571	What, when someone has no arguments, he's used to throwing or yelling. But, well, that's how it works. In any case, this is really an original proposal and I am glad that Mr. Babic would explain it well – someone would like us to go bankrupt or to temporary funding because it can really, what the people would say, get involved. You don't look, you don't have a transparent spending, you can do whatever you want, and someone seems to like it very much. Well, I'm glad this government was able to prevent bankruptcy. I'm glad, Mr Vujovic, you may have to say, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, though, at the time you weren't a minister, when she took responsibility, had money just to pay two more salaries and pensions and it was a complete disaster and that we had to, unfortunately, to be in charge so that we could have the liquidity of the state, so that we could do something at all. That's what you left us. You've even left us ministries with account blocks, and that's what citizens should know. No wonder you're suggesting this now. I'd like you to go to the polls, run and say yes, we're for bankruptcy and we think it's better. But fortunately, the citizens see it and I'm glad the government of the Republic of Serbia has arranged our finances to make it look really like a pharmacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41572	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41573	Let me explain for a moment. I said, the first member you suggested if he didn't adopt, he would have introduced chaos into this country. Since we're in the program, the program will fail. The temporary funding you're offering is no solution, it's amateurism, just like a dangerous amateurism to wipe out a member of the 2nd without whom the state, even if there was no budget, even if there were no deficits, could not be charged, to repay the commitments. Therefore, it is an invitation to bankruptcy. I don't understand what you have in mind and how you imagined it, and it's really catastrophic amateurism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41574	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41575	Thank you, Chairman. Since this debate has often said that this government has saved the country from bankruptcy. Well, someone says it was 2012, someone says at the beginning of this government's mandate, so that should mean 2014. I'm going to quote a minister who last night, about an hour, said explaining what reprogramming is, what debt refinancing is, said that reprogramming is done when the country is in front of bankruptcy, that Serbia has never been in front of bankruptcy, and that Greece is and that is why reprogramming debts was never an option. Serbia, according to the finance minister, has never been in front of bankruptcy and is said by the finance minister. Stop making up this story that the state of Serbia was in front of bankruptcy at any time. (Dusan Vujovic: She was bankrupt in 2000. ) So, in 2000, when the prime minister was the prime minister of information in resignation, the state was bankrupt, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41576	Please, Mr. Djurishic, you didn't get the right to a replica to speak out of the agenda now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41577	That's right, there was a state back then in bankruptcy and someone else was pulling out 12 years of very difficult... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41578	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41579	I think it's much more important here that citizens are interested in what we're going to do and how we're going to do with this budget, but I think we came up with one good thing and that Mr. Pavicevic called the IMF, if I heard correctly. Right? I mean, we really don't have any more problems. Finally, we found the parameter and the one we quote and the one we trust. Therefore, you should not trust us, nor Mr Pavicevic, the IMF has told its own, this budget is in line with the IMF, with the World Bank and everything else would be too high if they were people, if we all quote them, then it's clear here. This was arranged with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41580	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. (Vladimir Pavicevic: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr Pavicevic. Mr. Loncar mentioned your name and name, but not in a negative context and said - you should not trust me or us or Mr. Pavicević, so you have no right to a replica. Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, master Dr Blagoje Bradić, Ivan Karic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Branka Karavidić, Dusan Petrovic and Miroslav Marinkovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41581	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, we asked our amendment to delete the part that speaks of granting guarantees to the Republic of Serbia for loans in 2016 for 360m euros. Something I talked about in the principle debate, and I explained that I couldn't accept that the state of Serbia is charging the profits of the companies it then provides guarantees for loans. So, in 2016, it is expected that Serbia's Power Network will be guaranteed a 15m-euro loan, and we heard that hundreds of millions of euros in ESM have been paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is a loan for Serbia's Elektroprivreda, two loans, one out of 80, in fact three, one out of 80, one out of 45m euros, and this public company has paid off profits. If there's a profit, I think it's better to reinvest it than to take credit, because every credit is a cost. No matter how favourable he is. In particular, it is unacceptable for the minister to say in response – we give credit where some infrastructure facilities are built, you said. But the first 200m-euro loan is a loan for the financial restructuring of the EPS. No investment in property, in some facilities, but for financial restructuring. So we think that if public enterprises, according to their directors and ministers, function so well, then give that profit, invest in these projects. And the last thing, these loans, these guarantees are going through, they were in the budget last year and this one of the 200 million and this one of the 45 million for TENT and this 20 million Serbiagas. Why wasn't that realized this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41582	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41583	First of all, it should be pointed out that when it comes to these credit lines that the Republic of Serbia has stepped behind by issuing state guarantees, it is about the credit lines that will be returned by the users of these loans, meaning, EPS, ESM, and Serbiaagas. These state guarantees do not go into any further debt of the Republic of Serbia, nor will they be part of our deficit as such. First of all, it must be taken into account that these state guarantees are necessary to achieve credit lines with international financial institutions. So, as a state of our guarantees, we stand behind public enterprises to withdraw loans from, above all, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, KFV and achieve favourable credit lines. These are not commercial loans, our companies can be in commercial debt and they do not need state guarantees, however, for such favourable credit lines of this state guarantee are necessary. A good part of these credit lines is for development projects, first of all I mean projects related to EMS, about efficiency in the transmission system, then a major development project that we're working on and that we're preparing, you're right, it was part of the state guarantee last year related to renewable energy sources in EPS and Kostolc. Project Alexandrovac – Brus, i.e. Kopalnik – Raška – Novi Pazar – Tutin is a significant highway pipeline. Finally, the project, which is a credit line related to the EPS, is something that was realised in December of this year, is about restructuring, returning bad credit lines that were withdrawn earlier in the years and something that, without any dilemma, will positively reflect on the financial stability of the EPS and, most importantly, this is part of the arrangement that we have with the IMF:
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41584	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41585	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I could do it here, I have an analysis here, and everything the Amendment Proposer has been saying about the 2015 budget, and what catastrophic intentions he has announced and what he has announced will happen. Of course, none of that happened. Here, now he's saying there's no investment activity. Here, I'd like to remind you, Mr. Becic, that you'd like to meet the amendment's promoter that the EMS is a Belgrade 20 trafo station that's been under construction for decades. How much, Mr. Antic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41586	Thirty-five years, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41587	And after 35 years, Mr. Petrovic and all the responsible people in the EMS were opened after 35 years of Belgrade's trafo station 20. That an extended underground warehouse is Banatski dvor. I love what he throws, because they don't want to hear, because, you know, these good things for our citizens and for our country, some of them ignore, so they're just uncomfortable. Then, a power stock exchange was formed. The start of work on the project of opening mines and digging up the Bones B3 after decades, too. And a lot of other investments. But what I'd like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, has an authorised representative of the DS returned?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41588	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41589	Or is Mr. Sutanovac still at the concert? Yeah, she's still at the concert. All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41590	The word is by MP Balsa Bozovic, who has submitted the amendment to Article 3. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41591	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Vujovicu, I would like you to answer honestly on what basis and under what conditions do you take loans from more than two billion euros? With this amendment, we predict that it should give up, as Arab credits are highly suspicious of Serbian citizens since we do not know under what conditions you are taking these loans. In an explanation, because you refused me the amendment you said – they are more favourable than the loan on the financial market. So what are the conditions that don't say you're taking these two billion-euro loans? I'll remind you, you owe yourself more than ten billion euros. Eighty-five euros a second, you're in debt. With these two billion, it will be just over 12 billion euros in four years, Mr Vujovic. So where's the money? Let me ask you where the money is. Citizens live worse and worse, and you become more and more in debt. You're in charge of more than Joseph Broz Tito, Milosevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41592	After Tito, a little by amendment to Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41593	... Kostunica and the Government together from 2008 to 2012. In four years, 12.3 billion euros, Mr Vujovic. In doing so, two billion you take, obviously it's a good business for the Arabs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41594	Mr. Bozovic, do you want to talk about the amendment, because you don't want me to interrupt. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Speaks of an amendment. ) (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: Have you read anything, Mr. Becic? ) Mrs. Jerkov, Mr. Bozovic is eloquent enough to say for himself and to exercise his right that you do not have to throw and throw yourself into the debate, but I see that tonight is some rule for you, Miss Jerkov. Please, Mr. Bozovic, I know very well because I have an amendment ahead of me, if you'd like me to read that amendment to you in your time. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: In your time of amendment you can read, in my no. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41595	You must read the amendments to Mr. Vienna, so that you are prepared to come. The amendment is an obligation...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41596	I'm unlike you prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41597	A new two billion-euro loan. So, without conditions, how do we do it? I ask you to be honest, not as an agreement to Mr. Veselinovic, just before, because the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina came forward, and said that you are not telling the truth, because a liter of fuel there is 0.85 euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41598	Here's a question for Miss Jerkov after she throws it away. Where does fuel appear here in this amendment, where Arabs appear and everything else you've said in the last two minutes? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: If I answer, I will answer you. I cannot allow you to say anything that is not the subject of your amendment. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: it is a public debt. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41599	So, the government's argument is that this loan is more favourable, but Mr Vujovic did not say under what conditions and how much more favourable it is, because we to you "mothers we" that we cannot believe. Because Serbian citizens pay for it on their backs. All those not covered by a better life for 2016. And you're talking about bankruptcy. In 2000, Serbia was in front of bankruptcy, but if you continue this task, we will again face bankruptcy. Two billion euros, and you take from pensioners two billion euros in a new loan, and we don't have for the police and the military to have decent salaries. Two billion euros on the one hand, and on the other hand there are no educational workers and health workers. What kind of politics is that? And then some people here wonder why we might think that temporary funding is better than this, because with this budget that you're going into 2016 12.3 billion, you can whisper along with your associates, I'm telling you that you can't defend yourself. Four years have passed, 85 euros per second are in debt, more than the government in the previous 70 years together, and Serbia lives worse and worse. Is that a good business for the guy who's giving you credit? Apparently it is, since it gives such generous terms? Now you're going to explain to me here, not more favourably, than those on the market, and those on the market, look at the website. Serbian citizens will not look at the site, they are looking at their pockets that are getting thinner and thinner. This way of leading the state, leading to bankruptcy, a breakdown of public finances, and you will leave this ship and you will leave the citizens in that ship on a restless sea without sails and oars. That's why we're against this budget. For 2016, there is no money for citizens, there is a budget for SNS officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41600	The word has a minister, Dr Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41601	So the figure you're quoting is the number when it's translated into euro, after the rate of dollars and euros has changed, then such an effect gives and it's no borrowing. It's just a statement, the real borrowing is, listen now, $143.3 million in the last year, 283.6 million in euros and 55 billion in 966 million in dinars. It's a borrowing that increases liquidity and restores deficits. The formula is very clear, and I'm sorry that I have to go back to lessons anyway, and that's a deficit plus a liquidity change. Gross borrowing, it's written here, what you're saying is, what are the terms of funding, that big loan you're talking about, it's at ten years 2% of the budget of the last year, billions. More favourable, a fixed interest rate of 2% every ten years, and eventually the principal returns in the tenth year. There's no more favourable funding conditions. You are talking about Article 3, which includes full guarantees, new loans, projects that will be withdrawn between five and ten years and full funding of existing domestic and foreign loans, and that is Article 3 so that citizens know. You are proposing to delete, as in Article 2 of the state, the right to be in charge of gross liabilities minus the net obligation, which is going to be the difference of 121 billion, and that is the difference between those two figures that you have just proposed to delete, and now you propose to delete everything that is agreed, where we get super favourable loans from KFW, IBRD, from the World Bank, that's from one to seven in Article 3b, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the Bank of Europe, again KFW, etc. So you're proposing, and you've never suggested this for the past ten years that we give up funding for the most qualitative sources in the world, which are developmental. This is the development site you can't see in the 40.9 billion, but it's seen in that consolidated general government budget because these credits will be withdrawn for infrastructure, for the Ways of Serbia, for the EPS, which is just there, and you can't see here. So, you're proposing something, you're not even aware of what you're proposing, you suggest that our relationship with international financial institutions be annulled entirely. Well, are you aware of what you're saying?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41602	I thank you, Mr. Minister. National MP Balša Bozovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41603	You're saying that the development of these two billion, which you claim to be a super-favourable loan, and tomorrow as a member of the Parliament, I'm going to send the Fiscal Council a letter to ask them what a super-favourable loan from Mr. Vujovic's mouth means? You say, the best credit, the source in the world, and that's one economic category for which I'm going to ask for an explanation. Thank you. Development with two billion euros new, which is 12.3 billion total, and 85 euros per second and you say it's the development side of the budget, and what have you been developing with those ten billion over the last three years? Where is this developed Serbia with those ten billion euros? Did you refinance the loans? If it were, it would be less of a duty, but you didn't, Mr. Vujovic and that story no longer goes away. Public debt is getting bigger and you're doing this to make the deficit as small as possible. Let me tell you one more thing, when you reduce your deficit in the budget, you increase the deficit in the home budget of every family in Serbia. They don't have to pay for shoes, textbooks, to buy drugs, those pensioners in the morning when they wake up don't know whether to buy medicine or bread. Now, that's the low budget policy you're predicting here for 2016. With two billion euros in the development budget, so here you are a thousand of some economic expressions to confuse the citizens, you would not tell them what it means. No, that means you will lead Serbia to bankruptcy. That's what it means. You can laugh because it's not funny to those who don't have to survive from the first to the third of the month. I know it's funny to you, but it's not funny to the citizens of Serbia. You know what's funny? It's funny because you're laughing at someone's trouble, people who care about security, for example, our...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41604	Please, Mr. Bozovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41605	... Our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41606	Please, Mr. Bozovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41607	I'm back, it's just a controversy about the amendment. So if you're trying to convince us that the development side of the budget is a new borrowing, and you're boasting about the capital parts of the budget that don't exist, you're going to take care of the health care by turning hospitals, you're going to fix the situation in education, by humiliating educational workers with 7,000 help.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41608	Mr. Bozovic, do you really think that what you're saying right now is the subject of your amendment, regardless of what Miss Jerkov supports you in that, I don't think this has anything to do with your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41609	Two billion euros says you don't know how else to raise funds to further develop Serbia and to stay alive. You don't know Mr. Vujovic. Laugh, you don't know. You owe Serbia 12.3 billion euros, 12.3 billion euros, 12.3 billion euros, 12.3 billion euros. So I see you understand the numbers, and that will pay the citizens, not you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41610	I thank Mr. Bozovic. Here you go, replica by Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41611	So like this, let me tell you the example for, turn the side of the 24th page budget, line 7.15. Here are the terms of all loans, the terms exactly, this at the age of ten, Eurobon in 2011. I don't know who he was, who organized it in 2011, I didn't. Seven hundred million euros, eight hundred and fifty million probably were dollars then, interest rate 7.25%. Compared to this loan, the 5.25% difference, i.e. 52.5 million a year, in 10 years 525 million, this loan is better than the one you're talking about here. What are you talking about, sir? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: So did you return this one? So this is a big loan...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41612	Please, Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41613	This is a big loan, it's all written here. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: So you're lying. How do I lie? It's written here...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41614	Mr. Bozovic, please. I give a warning to Mr. Bozovic. I give you a warning, Mr. Bozovic. That's a second warning. The next warning is the exclusion from this session. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: I can't wait to be expelled. ) Mr Bozovicu, is that how you address a minister? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: So what if he is a minister? Mr. Zivkovic, I give you a warning, Mr. Zivkovic. That's a second warning for you too, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I can count. Excellent, you will learn Mr. Zivkovic. Your notice was given at this session, at this session. This is the second warning you've been told. Mr. Bozovic, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41615	So I don't want to go any further, the details are out here, a complete list of all new, old loans, with conditions, everything is transparent until the end. If you want further information they exist. These numbers we're reporting here, we're reporting for your full information. I don't understand, I absolutely can't understand how anyone can ask to delete this? This might be better managed, maybe we can get these old expensive loans back, that's our goal, but to erase it, that's pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41616	I thank you, Mr. Minister. For the sake of the public of Serbia, Mr Bozovic received a warning because in the harshest possible way he insulted a member of the government, the most harshest possible way, I cannot repeat what Mr Bozovic said. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What did I say? ) We will see, this statement will be, she heard the public of Serbia in what way you insulted a member of the government and such a tone, Mr Bozovic. Here you are, Mrs. Comic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41617	Thank you. You've hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which obliges you to take care of order at the session of the National Assembly, as well as the provisions of Articles 107 and 108, with full understanding that it is difficult to maintain order at the session where the budget or at any other session is held, but you are under obligation and it is your responsibility to maintain order. If during the talks between the government representative who is also a participant in the session, you are at the same time communicating with the MPs and with a member of the government, or a representative who is authorised to defend the budget before the Assembly, although during the session you do not feel that a representative of the Government violates the Rules of Procedure in addressing the MPs, and that the discarding of the MP, the participant of a session that is a member of the Government, is a reason to give him a warning, without explaining each other, then we have a problem with understanding who is being controlled here and who is being questioned here and who is to be charged with the accounts. We have a much bigger problem than two warnings given to MP Balša Bozovic or MP Zoran Zivkovic. We have a problem with mocking the institutions of the National Assembly in which MPs question ministers, in which MPs control the work of ministers, in which MPs have the right to oversee all that the ministers do. We have witnessed here to the MPs who stand up when ministers enter, and that is the will, perhaps even legitimate, but it is also a demeaning of the constitutional position of the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41618	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41619	I'd ask you to consider the warnings you've made and I'd also ask you to make together that... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41620	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Mrs. Comic, I least expected you to say what you said. I would ask you what would you be in the position of the chairman, and you are the Vice-President of Parliament, what would you do if a national MP told the government's representative, the finance minister, to lie, in such a tone as was spoken in the National Assembly, what would you do at that time and what measure would you do according to that MP? And the MP, Mr Bozovic, received a warning yesterday, in yesterday's debate and received a second warning today. I warned him that the next measure in the Rules of Procedure was disfellowshipping from the session. I don't see what the chairman's mistake is. If you say that you would not have done the same, I will apologize, but I am sure, I have been an MP here for 20 years, I have attended many times how you and how you conduct a session of the National Assembly, how you warn the MPs, you give sentences for much less than the said insult of the minister, for a spoken, even decent man, I would not like to say that word as many times as we should say because of what Mr Bozovic did, and that is the least I expected. Also, I did not expect Mr Bozovic to do it, so perhaps I am speaking as emotionally now, because I did not expect Mr Bozovic to insult the government's representative in this way. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Gordana Comić, from the scene: I just want to notice that you are in charge of the session, not me. ) Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Your irony... In the words of Alexander Jerkov. One more thing, I will listen to what Mrs Comic said, and I will now strictly punish, according to the Rules of Procedure, MPs who act like this, with citizens of Serbia on such an important topic as Serbia's 2016 budget. Thank you. The word is "Miss Alexandra Jerkov." "The violation of the Rules of Procedure." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41621	Thank you, Mr. Becic. I'm very happy to hear what you just said, because that's exactly where my intervention is going. I would advise you to read Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - Rules of Procedure of this Rules of Procedure at the session of the National Assembly are applied to other participants in the session of the National Assembly. Mr Vujovic has been laughing at the MPs all day... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41622	Ms. Jerkov, a member of the government does not mock the MPs, a member of the government explains the law that was filed on behalf of the Government of the National Assembly. At that moment, Minister Vujovic spoke about the figures and the MP told Mr Vujovic, who spoke about the figures, about the budget, that he was lying and I had to warn the MP. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement on this in Vote Day? (Yes) (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I did not explain until the end. ) The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41623	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 107th and 108th. Mr. Becic, you said yourself earlier that you've become a little emotional. You, Mr. Becic, have lost control of this session. You treat MPs equally with the position and opposition. That word you said the warning... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41624	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Did MPs now tell the minister that he was lying or the opposition MPs? Why are you now comparing MPs to the opposition MPs, when we had an opposition MP insulting the minister in the most harsh way possible? Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Yes) (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Let me explain. I thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41625	If it's not a problem, let's get back to the subject, because I think it's much more important. The question has been asked how we will deal with the health budget. Here, I'm telling you, we don't want to steal the budget, it's going to be a good budget. I'll remind you, since 1 January 2015, medicines are cheaper, which is the most important thing for our citizens. Here, it's going to be a year. We've shown we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41626	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41627	The minister said we'd be dealing with the budget, but apparently, on the other hand, they don't understand. It is simply impossible for them not to steal the budget, not to rob the budget, not to spend the pride and the ossion, but, just before, Serbian citizens saw someone treating the ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the finance minister... (The People's MPs of the Democratic Party scold and earn. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41628	Mr. Jovicic, I can't hear what you're saying because the DS MPs are getting and I can't react if you're saying something that isn't in the spirit of this amendment, because out of the noise that DS MPs are making, I can't hear you and your exposure. So I'm asking you to wait for me to establish order in the O.R. so that you can continue your exposure. I ask the MPs of the Democratic Party to allow, if they expect me to respond to Mr. Jovicic's exposure, that I can simply listen to Mr. Jovicic. Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41629	I will remind you, Your Honor, that seven or eight minutes ago, we saw some MPs, who were representatives of the former regime and the MP who proposed this amendment, treat the representatives of the government, the man who runs our country's finances and who, as a great financial expert, can teach, and teach, and convey knowledge to the younger ones. I would advise people across the street to take chemical notes, to get some knowledge, because we have seen a lack of elementary knowledge of all economic principles that when someone says that you, Mr. Minister, use economic expressions to confuse the citizens, and we are talking about the budget, the law that is related to our country's economy, to our country's development, then it's all clear to us. I admire that you have tried to explain, but it is fortunate that we are listened to by citizens of the Republic of Serbia whose economic terms are not foreign, nor are they confused, but transparently, as is this budget, can see what awaits them in 2016, and from that budget for 2017 and 2018. On the other hand, we heard the accusations, we heard the untrues, because when someone says that the loans of the Arab Emirates are suspicious, look out, these are loans that are received under the best possible conditions, of 1% interest, and during the former regime, commercial loans were taken, which were at the height of 7, 8, 9 and 10%, the Honorable Chairman. I just want to say what a replacement is, and since the representative of this amendment is also related to Belgrade politics, at least in front of his party, well, Belgrade has been left at 21% deficit, which is a historic deficit for the city of Belgrade. Over a billion euros left us with debts only in Belgrade and they are now talking about which credit is good and which is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41630	Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 1st Amendment. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41631	Since you're calling us here for knowledge or ignorance from the economy, here's a very simple question for the minister and for the entire government. We are constantly talking about these 10 billion euros in new public debt debts in the last four years, from 15 billion to 25 billion and are constantly responding – we are returning your expensive loans and we are paying off some of your loans. The Minister's question – say one single refinanced loan and explain only how in budget positions, to talk about concrete numbers and what you presented to us in this year's budget proposal, which is that in the division – Costs, based on foreign credit payments, for last year, the 2015 budget plans 54 billion, and since you're spending all your loans and reducing interest, you are now planning 64 billion for 2016 to pay interest for foreign loans? So 10 billion more in that plan. A simple question and give us an answer – how can we accept your big arguments to repay the expensive loans that some bad authorities took in the previous period? You owe 10 billion to this country. You're announcing new debts, and there's more money in the budget plan to pay those interest on loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41632	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41633	Thank you. That's a good question. I think a real conversation on this subject would require at least an hour, an hour and a half with slides and presentations. I'll be happy to do that as soon as I finish this budget job. Now I'm just going to show you two charts. One's been in dinar debt for the last five years. The first year is the highest. So every handiwork, every year it gets cheaper and cheaper. Maybe better, but we're down. Here's an example of one. In 2012, we paid 14.75% for five-year loans and 15.21% for three-year loans. Today we pay 8% and 6.5%, twice as much. That's obvious evidence for you. The second proof is – credits in euro, I won't even quote this credit from the Arab Emirates, which is 2%, which is the lowest of this, loans in euro, loans denominated here in euro, so in 2015 were 5.22% of the five-year maturity, they are now between 4.07 and 4.50. So it's all coming down. There's a little less dinar going down. (Goran Ciric: And how come 10 billion more for this year?) There's a table I'm going to leave you here right after this, that follows three things. We have three basic types of debt: in dollars, in euros and in dinars. When the exchange rate for the euro changed, the additions went terribly wrong, any additions. So, you've had your course so disrupted that when you count what you're looking at in Euros, where it's now grown by four billion in the last year, the same number, when it's converted into dollars, has fallen by a billion. Both are biased. It is not the way to look, but to see how much the dollar debt has grown in dollars, and the euro debt in euros and dinar debt in dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41634	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41635	Thank you. Twenty-two credits "Serbian Gas" and six credits "Air Serbia", not one less than tenm euros and most of them are about 30, and some of them up to 60m euros, where I suggest that these companies, especially "Air Serbia", which we hear is the best airline in the world's newer history, can probably, when it is so successful, return those loans, not the Republic of Serbia to do so instead. When it comes to "Serbian Gas", please, Mr. Bajatovic pays his workers 500 euros in a New Year's prize. I, here I have something against, that these "Serbian Gas" loans, which pays 500 euros in rewards to its workers, are paid by educators who receive a 50-euro reward and are still convinced by the government that they should be infinitely happy about it. This Article 3 is extremely interesting because it speaks of loans. Mr Vujovicu, please explain to us once again, if you are taking new loans to pay the old under more favourable conditions, how is it possible to grow interest and principal? Either you're not doing something good, or you, I don't know, how can you say, Mr. Becic, you're not telling the truth? Is that not insulting anyone here? Let's say...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41636	Free
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41637	Don't tell the truth, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41638	If that pleases you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41639	... I don't want to offend you. Tell us one loan you've refinanced. Not three, not five, not two, one, and what makes you both interest and principal, if you're taking new loans on more favourable terms to pay off the old ones?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41640	I thank you, Miss Jerkov. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41641	I have to respond to this statement of yours, regarding the loans we pay today as the Republic of Serbia, and they are related to the company Air Serbia. Air Serbia did not make those debts. Those debts were made by the JAT company that was. The moment the debt chain was cut, $330m was the debt the Republic of Serbia owed and guaranteed to pay, which is all the costs incurred over the past 20 or 30 years of work by the old JAT company. First thing, we had to do a serious restructuring of the company. This restructuring of the company takes three years, so 2014, 2015 and 2016, and that's why certain items appear in the company-related budget and after that stop. What is more important, the company today is making a profit and is seriously affecting the increase in total revenues in this country on various grounds. To compare today's company "Air Serbia" and compare JAT, I think it is completely pointless, and there is no state in the world that wants to be a serious state, while not paying all the debts that existed during the period for those we spoke about earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41642	I thank you, Mr. Sertice. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41643	So, on Article 1, where there is a special table in that Article 1, you get a gross debt figure of 663 billion dinars containing old loans, 540 billion to be refinanced and 121 billion to finance a new deficit and a billion to 179 million to increase liquidity. There's no secret. All the numbers are written in front of you. We're not funding one, but 540 billion dinars of credit from 53 weeks to 10 years that come next year. We can send you the whole plan, one operation at a time, when they arrive, when they're refinanced. Our goal every time is to cut the cost of what we refinance, to extend the term and to pool the loans. Now we're mostly returning loans that were at 6, 7, 8%, and today we're taking 3, 4, 5%. We expect that after the reduction of the National Bank's reference interest rate, the dinar rates will fall in the next five, six months and that we will achieve even better results, not because we are better, but because the better conditions and, among other things, fiscal consolidation enables us to work on smaller margins in the world. So, it's very simple, there's no secrets. We just do it systematically every day, but I'm really trying to explain it to you with the best intentions. What you're talking about doesn't exist. You made that up. I'm telling you guys, you really made that up, man. So there's not a single cent hidden in here. It's all written extremely transparently. Look, there are 30 and some sides here, from page six to page 41, 35 of detailed loans with conditions, with amounts and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41644	Miss Jerkov, I'd like to ask you next time you refer to the Minister's question, you say immediately you don't want an answer. (The People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov throws out of place. I don’t know why you’re embarrassed that the minister has been given the opportunity to answer you and to give you the information you asked for. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: He did not answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. ) Miss Jerkov, today in the debate, we said that ministers have 180 minutes at their disposal, as well as MPs. As certain minutes are removed from the MPs, you have only seven minutes left, so the ministers take the time they use off their time as a whole. Do you want to speak by amendment? The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41645	There are no secrets, except that the secret you've refinanced is why you're growing both debt and debt interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41646	Thank you. (Dusan Vujovic, from the place: Can I say an example? It's not worth the effort, Mr. Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41647	Mr. Becic, just before you said that the DS has seven minutes left of the parliamentary group, did you include that comprehensive DS or now abandoned DS, because as far as I can see today, some MPs, who felt uncomfortable and unwanted and as a foreign body in the DS, officially and left the DS and the MPs' club, so don't take it lightly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41648	I would ask you to proceed according to the amendment, and the National Assembly is very effective, our service is very effective and has taken up the time of the MP who left the DS. Mr. Borko Stefanovic's time is his time, and that time is no longer a parliamentary group of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41649	I thank you, Mr. Vienna, for your up-to-dateness. Of course, that was what I expected from the National Assembly Secretariat. I can understand, I'll never support hate, those people who don't realize that hate is like a boomerang. You can, however powerfully, throw it at someone and think you're going to hurt them, but the boomerang will make an onion around them, come back to you and hurt you, usually by someone who hates and hates them. I can't understand when someone has so much patience for their country. When someone with such a shooting refers to the company "Air Serbia" in which the co-owner of the state of Serbia, and hence all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as a respected colleague, the amendment promoter, I really cannot understand it. It is an animosity towards one company, and in a portable sense animosity to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The same animosity shown by Dragan Sutanovac, who is still at the concert, although he is an authorised representative of the DS. However, I will do for all of these, Mr. Becic, and I would like you not to interrupt me, who asked the question – why is "ER Serbia", and they are simply wrong that "ER Serbia" is the best company in the region and because "ER Serbia" is thinking about expansion in the Balkans, but also in this part of Europe by buying some other companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41650	I have to interrupt because you're not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41651	Of course. I'll just give you a few information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41652	Please link it to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41653	Of course, with the amendment, because the amendment refers to a credit responsibility due to the former regime's obligation, not "ER Serbia", and what the "ER Serbia" did is the number of passengers in millions, from JAT by 1.3, now to ER Serbia 2.3 million, for a million more passengers it transported "ER Serbia". From 30 to 40 destinations on 40 daily destinations. From 9,500 flights to 15,000 flights. Capacity in millions of seats from 2.1 to 3.4 million. Kargo growth increased by 60%, the number of pilots increased by 100. For the first time in the history of "ER Serbia" or JAT or whatever, for the first time, we have pilots in the composition of "ER Serbia", the same which the authorised representative of DS insulted, disdained by insulting a colleague from the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41654	I have to interrupt you, Mr. Granny, please finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41655	Of course. The percentage of employees under the age of 30 are 4% in the former company they over-indebted, which we still have to repay today the loans they made is now the percentage of employees under the age of 30, so that some will not worry that these young people will leave Serbia, now the percentage of employees, and under the age of 30 in ER Serbia, is 28%. These are the effects of the government of Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41656	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41657	Mr. Chairman, Article 106, also related to Article 27. On several occasions, you said that you would lead the session in a way that you would not allow MPs to act contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Right now, Mr. Babic has been speaking for six minutes absolutely past the agenda. On the other hand, he asked for an answer to the question – whether opposition MPs were deprived of time, regarding article 27. Rules of Procedure, I ask - has SNS time been taken up for MP Sasa Mirkovic, is that also reduced to the level that belongs to the party?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41658	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The answer is yes, on the same day. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yeah. ) The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41659	This is the custom of talking about the budget of all things that can be of an impact on the creation of the budget, so there is probably a lot of new information about air traffic and other things, but there is also an assessment of a respected minister who is not telling the truth that it is a matter of professionalism in relation to amendments, whether it is something amateur or it is professional. Of course, the idea is that what's professional is that it's related to the current government that is now offering you a budget proposal for 2016, and that amateurism has been transferred to me. To remind the minister, though he should know. He should know very well that when the government of Zoran Djindjic ended its mandate, and I led it at that time, the public debt of the Serbian state was below 10 billion euros, which was below 59% of public debt in the state's GDP. Today, when one professional government, too smart, revolutionary, of all supported governments, manages this, public debt is 25 billion, so 2.5 times higher, which is 75% of the public debt in GDP. So much for professionalism, about amateurism, about when someone asks you – what debt has been paid back for these four years, is there any debt from some bank, some state, from Mr God, from Allah or from anyone else, that has been paid back for these four years, when the debt has been increased by 10 billion?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41660	Time's up. Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41661	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister and particularly Minister Vujovic, since you are the most debated tonight in this debate, please respond now to what Mr. Zivkovic has told you. Mr. Zivkovic announced the exact details of our amendment to article 4. We were professionally involved in the analysis of Mr Vujović's draft budget law, we consulted experts, and it was inappropriate for you to refer a word to us that read – amateurism. We have submitted an amendment to Article 4 to Minister Vujovic because we believe that this member also reveals the anti-reform orientation and you, Minister Vujovic and this government as a whole. In fact, we noticed that there is no credible discharge plan here, such as the party armies and the public sector. Minister Vujovic, the Fiscal Council on Article 4 says – the projected measures to reduce deficits in 2016 have changed significantly compared to the initial consolidation plan of last year and now Minister Vujovic looks less convincing. Irregularity, non-transparency, arbitration, irresponsibility, are all I think clear indicators of Minister Vujović. The indicators here in this draft budget have been set up, and it seems that those who wrote are not clear what they should show. These were clear indicators for us as we read this draft budget law that gave up in a formal sense even though there seemed to be no giving up here at least formally than what was called the reform direction of this government, which included both modern Serbia and modernization processes in Serbia. Everything gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41662	Time. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41663	If the minister hasn't heard the question, I'll have to repeat the question. These data I provided are data from the Ministry of Finance website of the Republic of Serbia. So, how is it possible that the too smart, justifiable, patriotic of all supported for the first time in history by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on today brought the state to a near-to-date, over or exactly 25 billion euros, which is more than 75% of the public debt in GDP, and that some government that was rated as amateur had a public debt below, around or close to 10 billion euros, means 2.5 times less, which was then below 59% of the public debt in GDP? That's question number one. Question number two - one bank, one credit from a state, a bank or some other force I mentioned earlier that this government has returned since it took over, if I'm not wrong in July or August 2012, so three and a half years ago? It would be very nice, I know the answers of course, but it would be very nice for Serbian citizens to get those answers. So that these answers are not the turn of some charts that no one can see or that answers are something that is read from a mobile phone but that the answers are very simple, which is a bank, what is the credit, when it's returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41664	Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41665	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President and chairman of tonight's session, Mr Bečić, the Honorable Minister and particularly Minister Vujovic, I will now make an argument that, for the amendment to Article 5, which we People's MPs of the New Party have already announced to Mr Zivkovic to add another part of the argument, gentlemen. Since Minister Vujovic has decided to continue to defend himself in the debate by not answering our questions regarding our amendments, not members of the 4th and now not members of the 5th Mr Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41666	Mr. Pavicevic, Minister Vujovic answered, but I felt that the amendment's proposings still had to make their argument in order for the minister to respond. So keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41667	Here, since I didn't know the minister had applied only you have insight into it, here I was thinking of an additional argument to point to Minister Sertic, for example, which is the minister of business in this government, to see if we can in the context of a debate to find out more information. My additional argument, Minister Sertić, concerns economic subsidies. Here's what we noticed. We've seen that the government has singled out over 85 billion dinars to subsidize the economy, as we believe, Minister Sertic, that it wasn't wise and I'm asking you here now to make an additional argument for this government orientation. The economy, Mr. Sertic, does not grow on subsidies, do you agree, Minister Sertic? But by establishing order, for example, here's one thing in land books, in the work of courts, which is all meaningless regulation and regulations to loosen, Minister Sertic, to create an ambience. That's a good thing, Minister Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41668	Time. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41669	So, just like this. To be clear, I don't have the information here by hand, but I had the honor and duty to participate in a team that took part in November and 2002 in negotiating debts to the Paris and London Club. We got a 65% write-off, 66% of those liabilities. This was the beginning when the debt of the SCG common state then fell below 30% of GDP. We can talk, everything that's happened since then to this day, how many grenades, etc. We can talk and it's a very serious conversation to see what happened and how it happened. The bottom line is that we were used to a large inflow, to a low debt and a large inflow of free resources, and then when those funds started to suffer in 2005, in 2006, we developed a habit of borrowing. That habit went on. I don't want to, I'm not a member of any political party, I don't want to share anything with anyone. I just want to tell you that today we're trying to reverse something that leads in 2005 in the wrong direction, and I'm going to prove it to you by the numbers. I'll send you all the numbers individually. Two, you've been looking for examples, and here I am from my phone, Branko Drčević's reports. I can give you 20 transactions. He texts and e-mails every time. Four transactions, two on five-year-olds and one amount of 100m euros, and 76.8 and another on 50m euros were realised. The first transaction on July 28th of 4.5% this year. That was 100 bips. It is lower than the previous transaction of the same manual for five years in euro. Second transaction of the same five years October 10, 4.0%. This is 79% lower than any previous transaction, i.e. 0.5% or 50 bips lower than this previous one. That's one example. Another example, a two-year maturity, September 16th of this year, 50m euros at 2.22% and not 5%, as two years earlier. It was 63 bips lower, i.e. 66% and the next transaction on November 19th, only twenty days ago, 2%, 22 bps lower than the previous one. Every day in every respect was a lower interest rate and better conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41670	I thank you, Mr. Minister. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. The minister just gave the information you asked for. The word is made by Minister Zeljko Sertic at the request of Mr Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41671	I love it when Pavicevic answers and so rhetorically explain all the mathematics and all the stories. Now you've read well about 86 billion subsidies and you're asking what it is. Normally, it's all summed up in the total budget of 86 billion different incentives that we're going to give this year, with one part there. We've already tried to explain it to you, and obviously it's not worth it. One part of that isn't subsidies. These incentives that go directly as credit lines, what we just talked about, both for the railroad and for the construction of roads, but that's how the bill says. The budget and this method of writing and you used the same as is used today. On the other hand, the result of all the investments worked in the previous period and the Ministry of Economy and the Prime Minister's cabinet and all the people involved in this is that in this year, respected MPs, we have more than 20% more foreign direct investment than in the same period last year. The result is that we have a change in the increase in gross national income from the sad perspective of being at minus one we've reached almost plus 1%. Officially, the IMF confirmed 0.8 of the third arrangement in the third review. We'll see what happens at the end of the year. As a third thing, our development today is no longer based on consumption and on the rise in credit that led to this story being a little earlier on about the huge costs we paid for interest, but is now a complete development based on exports and on the investments and a complete deficit of the state today is paid directly from money coming from investment, and this is in financial terms the best way and the best indicator.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41672	Time. Thank you, Mr. Sertice. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dusan Petrovic, Mr Blagoja Bradić and Ivan Karic. I am informing the MPs that this is the last amendment we are considering tonight. We'll continue tomorrow. Here you go, Mrs. Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41673	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our amendment refers to Article 5, which is actually talking about planned capital investments for three financial years. By comparing the budget of last year and this year, we have in fact concluded that the funds allocated to the Emergency Budget Fund have been reduced and are not at the same level as the 2015 budget. We also noticed that the funds needed to be expropriated have increased. We had last year's amendment to this same member. Last year you gave us the answer that money is necessary for the expropriation of capital investments. That's the same answer I got right now. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, in 2016, 2017, defined resources are necessary for land expropriation in order to build capital projects in the Republic of Serbia and their reduction would make it impossible to realise them. I ask you, if 4.5 billion dinars were planned for 2016 last year, and now five billion and 200, and four billion and 41 million for 2017, and now five billion and 200, and we probably did some kind of expropriation this year, for which facilities? And one more thing, it is unacceptable that the funds necessary to protect and save citizens, goods, assets, environments in the Republic of Serbia, and we all witness what happened to us in 2014, are so drastically reduced. Our amendment concerns that we have increased the funding for 2016 and 2017 to the level that you have budgeted for 2015. I'm asking for an explanation from you. I think this amendment of ours is extremely important, given that protecting and saving citizens in crisis situations is very important. This was seen in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41674	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41675	Thank you. Very good questions. In both cases, it is a figure that we cannot determine independently from the ministries that run key infrastructure projects. So the figure that we received last year, which was not realized as then in that rebalancing and at the end of the year was used for other things, was not realised because of the slower dynamics of the realization of some projects. This year, we have addressed everyone with a requisition to accurately write what they expect in land expropriation and a large part of the increase this year refers to "Belgrade on water", and next year concerns planned investments that will end in Corridor 10, 11 and railways, etc. So these are the figures for which we ask the tough questions, and they explain and depends on the situation in the field how much to pay. Sometimes there are parts involved, some parcels that are very expensive, but we're about to take the figures they give us. The second thing about flood defense, we had an incredible increase in funding after the 2014 flood, and there was a huge part of that stuff over there. There are, if you like, we can look for Mr. Mark Blagojevic's report that runs it all. Since we've finished the huge part and got a bunch of donations, then we've got that drop now. After that huge increase, we now have a fall that should be something permanent. He spoke to the government the other day and we can give you a more detailed report on what was planned and what was done. I think it's logical and normal that after one big increase in funding from donations to Europe, loans, etc. to slowly return to some long-term balance, with your question fully in place. Have we done everything necessary to raise the level of flood protection and all others to the level necessary? The question is very good and we can check it out. We asked them that question, and they gave us this as the arguments they needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-10-0.u41676	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? (No) I would like to inform the MPs that we will proceed, following an amendment to Article 5, which was submitted by MP Zoran Babic, tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
