ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36792	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move on to requesting information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36793	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, a year ago I asked a question about decentralisation and even regional development. Meanwhile, I received a response from the economy minister that a national regional development plan is under way, defining basic priorities. Now I'm asking if you're thinking about forming a professional body that might be dealing with this problem? The process of regionalisation and decentralisation is one of the most important for Serbia's recovery, to revive the poorest municipalities. Equal regional development also means creating better conditions for life in undeveloped parts of Serbia, which is the basis for creating conditions to increase the birth rate. I'll remind you of some painful facts. Serbia loses one town each year of 30,000 people. If this trend continues, in 50 years there will be a million and a half fewer of us, and in 250 years we may not exist as a people. The average age of our people in Serbia is 41.2 years, which places us among the oldest peoples in Europe, but also in the world. Demographers say we are yet to see dramatic reductions in population. In Serbia today, there are nearly 1.7 million people over 60 and 1.25 million over 65. The difference between the dead and the born in the next period will grow. It is currently 30,000, and the figure is estimated to rise to as much as 50,000 to 60,000 in a decade or two. A survey by the Serbian Demograph Society showed that Serbia has a negative natural growth of 158 municipalities, while a high natural growth of 9.6 to 11.8 permeates has only Presevo, Novi Pazar and Tutin. In Serbia at all, the number of inhabitants suffered the most from mountain villages. The most difficult situation is in rural areas around Pribo, Prepolje, Nova Varoshi, Koserić, Bajina Basta. According to the Department for the Study of the Villages, in the next decade and a half, as many as 700 villages will disappear, as they are left with mostly old people. If I didn't continue to list the losing data, I believe we're aware of the fact that this is a major problem, for which we need special engagement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36794	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36795	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question will be directed to Justice Minister Selakovic. So, what does he intend to do with judicial reform? We have a situation where for years it has been said that the reform of the judiciary, which was carried out five years ago, was the worst reform in the world, that our judiciary was in huge trouble, that it didn't work, and by everything that's happening now, the situation is even worse than it was. So, what was entrusted to the justice ministry and Minister Selakovic to reform the judiciary and remove all alleged shortcomings from the previous reform, he absolutely did nothing and the situation is even worse. So what does he intend to do when solutions are abolished by judges because of the wrong application of material rights? Are these really unprofessional judges, or are certain personal interests making them unprofessional? We have the latest example of a low brewery sold out of bankruptcy, where the buyer is a legal person, i.e. a company from the EU. So, on August 3rd of this year, a soloisation of the contract was carried out, and the purchase price was also paid at the seller's expense, on August 4th the buyer was introduced to the state, and on August 8th, a transfer of immovable property and movables was completed. During the period from 06 August to 26 August, 25 workers were employed, contracted with a view to reconstructing the brewery's refurbishment, and all in order to start production. And then on August 26th, a subpoena for a court hearing in which it is sought, requiring a cancellation of the purchase with the introduction of temporary measures to suspend all activities. It would be no wonder if the company that filed the claim and requested those provisional measures were not a company whose legal representative Danilo Nikolic, a lawyer, and the former state secretary at the justice ministry, therefore, is a member of the Serbian Progressive Party. If we also consider that the President of a court in Nis also came to that place with a SNS membership card, then we cannot be surprised that the claim was accepted as well as that a temporary measure was imposed. To this temporary extent, it even states that the reason, and that it should be borne in mind, is that it is not intended to conclude a sales contract with the buyer, which is the most severe possible violation of the material rights, because it is precisely the national standard, number 5, on the method and procedure of the insolvency of the debtor’s assets that provides for the conclusion of a buy-in contract. The decision taken by the Business Court in Nis on 28 August this year was lifted by the Belgrade Commercial Court of Appeals on September 25th and returned to the re-determination, but the judge who acted before the suspension of the solution at the same time made a new solution confirming an old solution without taking into account the arguments presented by the Commercial Court of Appeals. So, another question for Minister Selakovic, will he launch an initiative to resolve the judge for his unprofessional performance and for his rude violation of material rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36796	Time. Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36797	Three very simple and short questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the Belgrade PKB agricultural combination, the simple question - why is the initial price for the sale of capital only 51% of the market value if we know that the company is also bankrupt when sold, sold with 100% market value? So much is not for companies that are bankrupt at the moment in Serbia, which the government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to sell to someone. It is sold at 100% prices, the PKK by 51% of the market price. A legal option is used when it comes to the lowest possible price for sale of 51% without any explanation. If in the first round none of the interested customers for the PKK, which is the largest food producer in Belgrade and Serbia, the second price is 35%. When it comes to land conversion, the PKK tried to enroll in a cadastre when it came to agricultural land and catastre rejected them. The second-degree body of the Ministry as it was in the case of Zlatibor has registered the PKK on the entire agricultural land, at this point the PKK has the right to use. Why did that happen before the sale? For one reason only, because someone cares very much about land, not about the work of the PKK. Safe food production is thus highly endangered for the capital Belgrade and Serbia. When it comes to the Obrenovac, we ask the question why are 20,000 dinars per hectare that were scheduled for flooded areas not paid to Obrenovac? And why did farmers fail to reach the 20,000 dinars used primarily for the recovery of land that was very, very damaged during the May floods? We also ask the question when will the Administrative Court decide whether the former president of the Municipality of Mladenovac, Mr Dejan Čokic, has been legally removed or not, since at the time of his shift some citizens or individuals who were not representatives of the Mladenovac municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36798	I thank Mr. Bozovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (Yes,) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me extend where my colleague left off, so I ask the first question – What will the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation do about the outrageous privatisations of the type of three euros, three sugars? As part of this, what will be done with the privatisation that was done at Sugarna Kovacica where 200 hectares of agricultural land was sold for three euros, and the sugar shop comes, which brings us to a price of 15 euros per hectare. Since my previous colleague has raised the issue of agricultural land, I ask the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation this question because privatisation was made in favour of the then financial director of the Drpocrat, pardon, Democratic Party. My next question concerns Mr. Zoran Panovic's behaviour and is addressed to the minister of culture and information. On Saturday, it was the anniversary of the establishment of the SNS and the show's TV show, Dnevnik hosted the editor-in-chief, or I am the editor of newspapers called "Today" and on that occasion accused the prime minister who had previously been accused of censorship of failing to perform the censorship of Emir Kusturica's speech. On this occasion, Mr. Panovic told the prime minister that he did not direct director Kusturic, so that the argument between SNS and Mr. Panovic would not bother me as I would not mind a statement by SNS, or Mr. Panovic's reply in the authorial text in the list "Today" that followed yesterday, that Mr. Panovic did not use an expression that was an unheard insult to the village and peasants. Since I'm the president of the People's Peasants' Party, I've experienced it very emotionally. The term SNS was used in its statement, a statement she sent qualified by Mr Panovic as peasant Stalinism. It's an outrageous insult to the peasants. An outrageous insult to me since the leader of the People's Peasants' Party was taken from this parliament in 1947 and sentenced nine years in prison. Also, for me as the leader of the People's Peasants' Party, it is an unheard insult to use the words of peasant Stalinism since it is common knowledge, and if Mr. Panovic is not, to us from the village is that the peasants were the unheard victims of the same Stalinism, that they were taken to camps, that their mustaches were torn, that they were killed, that they were wounded, that their property was kidnapped, that confiscation was made, that they were forced to collect. Some of the consequences of the abduction of assets to the day of today and rehabilitation are not removed from the peasant population. In this regard, I have sent a protest to the list "Today" and to NUNS since NUNS does not intend to make an announcement this time, I ask the Minister of Culture – What will they do about the outrageous insult sent to the village and peasants who were victims of Stalinism, and in this case are marked almost as perpetrators? The term peasant Stalinism was supposed to be offensive with the peasants, and especially with the peasant Stalinist methods, it should mean that the peasants carried out this kind of repression against the population, and in fact they were victims. The next question I ask is the wild construction of a lead battery factory in India built on waterfall in 2007 from where Indjija and the surrounding area drink water, with regard to the sub-questionation of what the Ministry of Construction will do for wild construction of a Tradejonik-business Centre in the center of Indjije of 40,000 squares built without a building permit, where the municipality bought four million euros of business space for the municipality, and that the facility did not have a license and with this I question and the apartment in which the president of the Indji municipality of 200 square penthaus, in the same facility, apartment in Vienna, house in Tatar hill, two apartments in Novi Sad and apartment in Indjia. What will the Ministry of Construction do about wild construction, and the MUP will do about the outrageous enriching of the housing fund, the president of the municipality of Indji Goran Jesic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36800	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milena Ćorilić, Branko Ružić, Marjana Maras, Zlata Djeric, Mladen Grujic, Milorad Mijatovic, Meko Omerović and Goran Bogdanovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time from the deadline laid down in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts from the proposed agenda of this session as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the 17th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 and the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the work of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues, I have found that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent to that Committee in writing to comment on those minutes. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 25 and 28 September 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 35, out of 155 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 17th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on October 1, 2nd and 5th 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 30, out of 155 present MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. A group of 16 MPs of the DS MPs proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law amending the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 16 MPs of the DS MPs proposed that the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 138 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Resumptions of the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Djordje Milicevic suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 13 October 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted 29 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Do MPs Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 20 April 2015. Do MPs Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law on planning and planning of space and settlements, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 21 April 2015. Do MPs Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 147 out of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for an amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the User of Financial Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 September 2015. Does the MPs of the people, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36801	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time in this regular session, I propose the Law amending the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, a Law which could also be called a Law against Banking Monopolies. On behalf of the “PROKRET Movement”, but also of all citizens who are at risk of banking monopolies, I have filed this law requiring the state to protect citizens, users of financial services, and not banks that have a monopoly and which have no restrictions when it comes to the state. In this law, which also follows a petition of 20,174 signatures by Serbian citizens and whose signatures continue, the state was asked to protect citizens from green contracts. Is it disputed by the MPs in this assembly? In this law and this petition, the state is required to protect citizens from disproportionate giving in relation to the bank – a client. Is it controversial for the MPs to protect the citizens and not the banks? In this law and in this petition prepared jointly by the Movement for PRECRET and the Association of Efficiencys and the Association of Consumers of Financial Services, it is required that the state limit the enormous interest of banks and the wealth of poor citizens. In this law, MPs are proposed to adopt legislation and standards to protect citizens from high costs, high bank costs charged beyond the knowledge of financial service users. This law, in this proposal submitted by the PRECRET Movement, requires the possibility for users of financial services to protect their rights at the National Bank and through their associations. I propose, I ask, that the MPs protect the citizens instead of the banking monopoly and that they finally begin to protect those who chose them, who were threatened by the banking monopoly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36802	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a LAW ON CONTRACTION OF THE INVESTIGATION LAW, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2015. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 142 of the 155 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Compendiums on Taxes on IMOVINA, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 11 MPs, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic, SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, on 29 June 2015. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Interim Regulation Act and the payment of pensions, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2015. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 out of 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal FOR THE LEGISLATION OF FEARS, which a group of 19 MEPs submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2014. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 142 of the total number of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragam Sutanovac on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a LAW ON DEFINITIONS OF THE CRIME LAW, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 15 MPs of the DS Group on 29 June 2015. Does MP Dragan Sutanovac want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 141 of the total attendance of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Slobodan Homen is on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a LAW ON APPROACH OF THE AGENCY TO FIGHT CORRUCTION, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 September 2015. Does MP Slobodan Homen want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total number of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic, based on Article 92, pages 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a LAW REFERRED TO INSTRUMENTS TO THE LAWS, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 September 2015. Does MP Aleksandar Senic want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36803	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, I suggest that the draft law supplementing the law on corporate tax be included on the agenda. We have a situation that the level of investment in Serbia is very low and that simple government policy when it comes to attracting foreign investment is clearly not good. I remind you that in 2012, Tomislav Nikolic said in the presidential campaign that 100 billion euros in investment would come to Serbia if he became Serbian president. Unfortunately, he's become one and unfortunately there's no investment anywhere. Today, we will also discuss the proposal for a investment law that will absolutely nothing new and will not improve the climate for new investments. I call once again on you to consider this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, because it is now allowing incentives and tax exemptions for new investors, to attract foreign investment and to reduce the unemployment rate. So, with that addition to the law, I predicted that the taxpayer who, in the financial year indefinitely, and for at least two years, employs new workers, has a reduced tax base for the amount of earnings paid by newly employed workers, and is also foreseen that the newly established legal entity in economically underdeveloped municipalities, which performs exclusively production work, is exempt from the tax on profits for the first three years since the start of the performance, and in a period of three years, relative to the share achieved in the total profit of taxpayers. Therefore, clear measures to attract new investments, especially in underdeveloped municipalities, and I ask you to reconsider this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Taxation at the Ages of Legal Persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36804	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 150 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill on the conversion of loans in Swiss francs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 September 2015. Does the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36805	The Turnover Movement, along with the Efficient Association, which protects 100,000 citizens who are threatened with harmful loans, loans that have been completed and implemented in favour of banks, submitted a bill on the conversion of loans to Swiss francs into the euro. Six countries were affected by these loans, by these green interest and contracts and by six countries, five countries solved this problem by law-making -- Poland, Hungary, Croatia, Montenegro, the law is also in the process in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Only Serbia, the only one on the planet, has not solved this problem, holds 100,000 people in suspense. Many of them spend every day without a roof over their heads, including 50,000 children, 50,000 children. This is one smile that sent you a child from kickinda, smile, even though that child and his family aren't even laughing, because every morning they get up with a hint that in an envelope in a mailbox they'll find a notice from the bank that their apartment is being sold. We've collected signatures, we're moving on with a petition, but I'm asking the MPs -- are they still the only ones on this planet to protect the banking monopoly or will they protect the citizens of Serbia? This morning, eight o'clock, following last week's bill of law, the strike was announced, a meeting was held with the prime minister. I guess it's about buying time. A task force has been formed to solve this problem. We know how we form working groups so the problem won't be solved. Of course, there's only one hope left for these people. The hope remains that the MPs will protect the citizens, not the banking monopoly. The turnaround movement will be with those citizens, and you have the opportunity to choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36806	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for –14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Branko Karavidić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 September 2015. Does MP Branko Karavidic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36807	Thank you. The Law on Public Information and Media has been in force since August 2014 and its adoption under a set of media laws has been announced as a major reform shift. The Anti-Corruption Council published a report in February 2015 on the ownership structure and control of the media in Serbia. Although the report deals with the situation in the media regarding ownership structure and control in the period preceding the adoption of media laws, the Council still looked back on its report and on a solution in the new law, whose amendment we are proposing. In the Council's view, there are also shareholders in practice, who own less than 5% of the shares in the issuer's ownership structure, and who exercise effective control over editorial policy as well as sources of funding for multiple media at the same time. I believe that an existing solution, which does not provide for the inclusion of all direct and indirect media owners, but only those whose share is above 5%, opens up a space for abuses, does not guarantee to a sufficient extent the transparency of the ownership structure and creates conditions for non-transparently affecting flows in society directly or indirectly through the media. Article 1(a) of the Law proposes amendments to Article 39(1) of point (8) by providing that all owners are to be entered in the media register directly and indirectly, regardless of the size of the share in the issuer’s founding capital, as opposed to the solution provided for so far to be entered only data on owners, whose share exceeds 5%. The proposed amendment of the Law on Public Information and Media will ensure transparency of the issuer's ownership structure, i.e. media, which will help restore citizens' trust in the media while reducing the possibility of possible abuses or illicit influences on the media or through the media. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the law amending the Law on Public Information and the media is contained in Article 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, which is certainly the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as the control of the legality of the availability of legal persons. Once again, I call upon all my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36808	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law on the draft law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2015. Does MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36809	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our MP group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, submitted a bill on the bill. I have proposed that this bill be placed on the agenda of today's session. This is because this matter is regulated by sublegal acts by us, except for several members who regulate this matter and which are prescribed in both the Constitution of Serbia and the Law on the Assembly, and is mostly regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government. The ruling majority has been using this for a long time to turn everything envisaged as an exception into a rule, so that most laws are passed by emergency procedure, without having a public debate, and when public debate is held, the question is which round is being held and whether all interested have the opportunity to take part in the public debate. Then, it is usually proposed that the law enters into force within eight days of the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" and that no sublegal act should follow the draft law, as provided for in the Resolution on Legislative Policy. In order to avoid all of this and to bring order into this area, we have proposed that it be regulated legally, which would then create a greater obligation for the ruling majority to respect the rules and respect the legal procedures. If this Assembly does not have a law that regulates it and if this Assembly does not respect the rules and procedures and first violates it, that is to say, it uses all the opportunities provided for as an exception to turn it into a rule, then we cannot count on a stable legal state or develop a stable legal system. So once again, I suggest you put this bill on the agenda and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36810	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 MPs from 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014. Does MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our parliamentary group has submitted a bill supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The main objective of this bill is to supplement Article 20, which regulates the jurisdiction of local self-government by adding a new point of 16a. which reads: “The arrangement and security of the scholarship of the disciples and the students. “ This is now in the jurisdiction of the Republic, and we know the state of the Republic of Serbia’s budget, and we know that this ruling majority has failed for these three and a half years to provide funds in the Republic’s budget, by consolidateing the tax administration and charging taxes from the largest debtor, and according to the tax administration list, the biggest debtors are the richest people in Serbia, failed to seduce austerity measures in state authorities and restrictions in vehicle use, in representation, but the budget is filled with reduced salaries and pensions. For this reason, there is not enough funding for the scholarship of students and students, so local self-governments that are directly in contact with these citizens and who share the fate of these citizens on a daily basis must be managed in various ways to help students and students who are in poor material condition. They don't have a legal basis for that, and if they do scholarships during the final accounts review, then the auditor finds it a violation. By passing this law, we would give local self-government the legal basis for introducing student and student scholarships, and I think it is the right time to do so now, because then in the budget for the next year, the funds, which are otherwise spent for those purposes, call the right name and bring in the criteria and criteria in which to distribute these funds, thus helping students of poor material status to become educated and thus create a material obligation for them to remain in that territory, to remain in that local self-government and not to go further young people abroad as they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36812	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted with 149 MPs from 161 members of the Parliament. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the definition of public interest and specific procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water", which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 May 2015. Does he want the word Dr Blagoja Bradic? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36813	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have submitted a proposal to amend the Law on the definition of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". There are two reasons why I've made a motion to amend this law. This law was passed in this Assembly a year ago, and that law is a legal act that, without that law, is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and contrary to the law on expropriation. What's this about? This Lex specialises in allowing local self-government and the Republic to exclude private property, private parcels, and in this particular case on the Sava plateau, where the construction of Beograd on water is planned, declaring it a general public interest, at the price it sets and paying from the Republic budget. This violates the Constitution, the integrity of private property, and thus disabling the Expropriation Act, which is clear that expropriation can only be done when it comes to public interest, when it comes to building facilities, traffic, schools, kindergarten, entertainment, everything that is the public interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and when housing is built. We are witnessing that two buildings with 300 apartments, commercial content, prices between two and three thousand euros per square metre, as we heard, and this has nothing to do with social housing and public interest. What is characteristic is that unlicensed land is assigned to the investor, based on an interstate contract, which will build these facilities that he plans to build and which he will put on the market and sell. The second reason for submitting the draft law is the way of funding from the republican budget. I fully understand that Belgrade should be built, developed, but it should behave, build like any other self-government, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, which is from the budget of the local community, the city's budget or the municipality. In our cities, in our municipalities...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36814	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36815	... When exempt from real estate, it is excluded from the local budget, not from the republican budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36816	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted with 149 MPs from 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36817	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have proposed to amend the Information and Media Act and the next law adopted by this law, which I will explain in the next report, on public media services. Just over a year ago, this Assembly passed these two laws and since June the laws have been abolished by the right of local self-government to finance local media services. Furthermore, these laws set out that the Public Media Service in the Republic of Serbia has been doing Serbian TV with its channels, TV and radio channels, and the Vojvodina Radio Television with its two television and three radio channels. What is interesting is that RTV is funded from the subscription, which under the new law will be a tax of 500 dinars for all citizens of Serbia, which has been introduced, and 70% of these subscriptions will remain for their operation and financing of their activities, and 30% will be financed by RTS. What I have proposed by amending this law is to bring the citizens of Serbia into an equal position. All citizens have a obligation to pay for the Public Media Service and that is normal, it must be financed by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but all have no equal right to use a media service, a public media service. Citizens under Sava and Danube do not have the same representation in RTS and RTS programmes as Belgrade and Vojvodina residents do. I suggested forming a "Radio Television of Serbia" that will meet the needs of citizens under Sava and Danube and will be financed as well as by RTTV, 70% of the funding will remain "Radio TV narrow to Serbia", and 30% will be financed by RTS. What is more important, the National Minorities Act here brings national minorities, with this decision, this Law on Media Services of the National Minority under the Sava and Danube makes a subordinate position to the national minorities on the territory of Belgrade and Vojvodina, because they do not have the possibility of representation as they have in Vojvodina, Belgrade and below Sava and Danube, because the simple RTS programming scheme is insufficient. It's not 48 hours a day, it's 24 hours a day. I sincerely hope, especially the Nis MPs who have an obligation to vote in the City Assembly, that you will support my proposal and correct this injustice against the citizens under the Sava and the Danube. Public media service is something that all citizens of Serbia need in the same size and in the same quality. It's nice to have information from Belgrade and Vojvodina, but you also need information from your local community. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36818	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36819	Thank you. The amendment of the law I have submitted concerns the insurance companies of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which is a change in Article 41, which says who has the right to repair teeth and the treatment of mouth diseases through the financing of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Under the current law and Article 41, children under the age of 18, students up to 26 and over 65 who have the right to produce acrylic prosthetics and those people, i.e. those insurance companies between 26 and 65 who have specific diseases that include this type of health care, as do pregnant women. What I have suggested is that, apart from these two and a half million users of the Republic Health Insurance Fund who have the right to dental health care, they have the right and those four and a half million who, behold, pay some of their profits in the Republic Health Insurance Fund, finance the work of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and do not have the right to use these funds to treat mouth disease and dental repairs. I think this would correct a great injustice and give the citizens of Serbia a chance to have, at a time when unemployment is high, when the standard is low, the right to fix their teeth through funds that they themselves finance. So far, you've rejected my proposal six times, and you haven't voted. I hope that at least the doctors, for starters, will support my proposal, because we all say that patients' health comes first and we care about the health of the nation. Please, colleagues, prove that you took the Hippocratic oath, vote for the interest of our patients. There is money in the Republic Health Insurance Fund according to the budget adopted by this Assembly and it is 350 million unallocated funds in the position of dental health care. All you have to do is buy dental material. There's no need to zoom in. The colleagues working under the Treaty with the Republic Fund can fully meet the needs of the population for dental repairs. I thank you, and I hope you will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36820	I thank you, Mr. Braddick. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Mr. Bradic, since you have already explained this proposal, although it was on the proposal of the media law on public services, do you want to explain it again?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36821	No, I just want to turn to two sentences, because I suppose there will be a repeat vote, to say that colleagues who have failed to vote for a law amending Article 41 and referring to dental health care, give the citizens a chance that they can have benefits from their money and repair their teeth. I think it is not politics, but the need of Serbian citizens, and we are all here for the sake of what all MPs say, the interests of Serbian citizens. There's no greater interest than health. Let's give people a chance to fix their teeth. It's a little curiosity. In Belgrade, over 65 years old, 60% of the population has no living tooth in their heads. Give people a chance to fix their teeth, not wear total braces when they're old. People don't have the money to pay private dentists, it's enough that they pay contributions and the Republic Health Insurance Fund needs to finance a dental health care service for the entire population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36822	I thank you, Mr. Braddick. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 145 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Comić, based on Article 92 of century 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 16 MPs of the DS Group on 9 April 2015. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36823	Thank you. The proposal to set up a survey committee, we believe, is necessary for the majority to declare themselves on the agenda. As time passes, and now more than seven months since 13 March 2015, when seven people were killed in the tragedy of the helicopter rescue mission, so the time has been passing is becoming more and more obvious and clear that the work of the polling committee and the work of this Parliament is necessary. I hope most people in the National Assembly understand that this time. The Committee of Auditors, drawn up under the rules and articles of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and under the Law on the National Assembly, implies that it is concerned with seeking answers to questions that do not exist either in the first or second report, which were made available to the public, which were drawn up by the committees responsible. The first question to which there is no answer – based on which information and information, how is available to it, has Defence Minister Bratislav Gasic made a decision on the rescue mission of the helicopter? Who sent him the information that was necessary, in which way did he assess that the decision to make the mission was justified? Is the Prime Minister, is someone from Novi Pazar, is someone from the Ministry of Health, is someone from the Ministry of Health, the Director of the House of Health, who? This is very important to find in answer to the question, because through this question, the relationship to the rule of law and protocols that the minister must respect, if he does not want to be held responsible for the death of seven people, and he considers him responsible for keeping and defending himself by silence and refusing to answer this simple question. The second question - who changed the flight plan for the helicopter on the way back, when the rescue mission was completed? Who did this? That's not in any of the reports, no one's going to plead, it's also the key information that would help the National Assembly unequivocally determine who's responsible for the deaths of seven people? The mockery of the rule of law and the belief that someone can be defied of the requirement that the National Assembly perform its control function is a common damage. She is not the victory of the majority, especially not the victory of the irresponsible minister, she is the defeat of the rule of law in which we defend ourselves in words, and in actions we constantly commit violence against her. That's no good he can't bring for anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36824	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 15, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 148, out of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed amending the agenda of this session and supplementing the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. For the 16th or 17th time, I suggest you adopt amendments to the Code of Criminal Code, which consist of only one alteration to include crimes that do not become obsolete and to steal babies. The background is very simple, in 2013, the European Court of Human Rights ruled and obliged Serbia to pass legislation by September 2014 to prevent such acts in the future. Now, in October 2015, I ask you 17 times why you don't want the crime of stealing babies to be included in crimes that don't go out of date. Since I didn't get an answer 17 times, and last time I promised I wouldn't be ashamed to suggest 117 times if you weren't ashamed not to accept it 117 times and keep quiet about why you didn't accept it, now I'm going to start asking you myself, and I'm going to do it every time I propose this bill. Why does Aleksic Dragan MPs of the SNS not want to be involved in crimes that do not go out of date in the act of stealing babies? Why does National MP Alexic Irena not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does Anastasia Adriana's MP not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does National MP Andric Mirjana not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does MP Atlagic Marko not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does the MP Babić Vlado not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does the MP Babić Zoran not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does MP Barisic Dragana not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does MP Beric Nebojsa not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does Parliamentwoman Beronja Ljiljana not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why don't you Vice President, Mr. Becic Igor not want to be among the crimes that don't go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does MP Birmancevic Boban not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Why does MP Blažić Branislav not want to be among the crimes that do not go out of date to include the crime of stealing babies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36826	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 MPs, of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Rules of Procedure on the provisional arrangements for the payment of pensions, which was submitted by a group of 16 MPs of the DS Group to the National Assembly on 21 September 2015. Does MP Balsa Bozovic want a word? Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36827	Ladies and gentlemen, we're proposing a law on the suspension of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid in two members. We propose to the first member that SNS law, which has reduced pensions, ceases to be valid for Serbian citizens. In Article 2, we propose that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" for the simple reason that its adoption under an emergency procedure is proposed to avoid further adverse effects on the pension system, on the state of pensioners and on the life and health of pensioners. We think it is particularly important today to point out that among those who not only released Belgrade 71 years ago, and some of them are alive today, but also for all those who have then renewed the country in both material and spiritual terms did not deserve to have someone acquired their right, property taken away their poor results from economic policy by taking away what little they had done all their lives and turning into something else, completely which is neither economically logical nor justifiable. After all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who, in accordance with the Constitution, have experienced that the Constitutional Court does not care about the legality but exclusively about the legitimacy of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Romania, Italy, Greece, Portugal, are countries where the Constitutional Court has protected its citizens. In Serbia, unfortunately, that is not the case. It's not the first time as a Democratic Party that we're not only proposing this law to put pension cuts out of force, but it's not the first time we've paid back our pensions and to return old foreign savings like it was in the 1990s. In 2000, we inherited a ruined pension fund, robbed, isotid by those who are still in power today in the Republic of Serbia. I believe that the DS protects in the best possible way the rights of those who are contrary to the constitutional rights completely at stake. In this way, DS, the bill to put a shameful SNS law out of force actually protects Serbian citizens from self-will, the authorities that make up the government of the Republic of Serbia today. Forty thousand DS signatures have been collected together with citizens and we propose to all MPs that if they care about their citizens, they give their vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36828	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157 and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform review be carried out on the Proposal for a Law on Investments, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, the Proposal for a Law on Conforming Financial Restructure and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Development Co-operation, be those of the agenda of 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the proposed agenda. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, has voted - 36 out of 169 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I put the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote on the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134, no one, with abstentions, voted - 32 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015 as a whole. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for an Investment Act; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers; 3. Proposal for a law on contractual financial restructuring; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Development Cooperation; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Forest Act; 6. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are going to work on the established agenda of this session. I'm taking five minutes to reset the system because we don't have time on the screen. [[after breaks]] According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for the meeting to be attended today by Zeljko Sertic, Minister of Business with Associates. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled and uniform search on draft agenda law, in accordance with points 1, 2, 3 and 4. Before opening a joint principle and a single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time for debate for parliamentary groups is five hours. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform review on the Proposal for a Law on Investments, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Bankal Managers, the Proposal for a Law on Contracting Financial Restructure and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Development Co-operation. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Zeljko Sertic, want a word? Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36830	Dear Members of the People, dear friends, today we are standing before you again with three draft laws that have failed our ministry and a large number of people who participated in them in the previous period, all three laws are facing future projects that will be implemented within our economic system. We believe that each of them deserves special attention and special consideration. At the very beginning, I would like to point out one of the very important things, which is that in the laws, especially the Law on Investments, a large number of interested parties in the previous period participated, which gave us the opportunity to hear both completely different things and views of the same law, even sometimes with the same goals, and with different explanations, or in the extreme line with a different way of writing. I feel free to say that this was one of the most open, dynamic and concrete discussions in the previous period. A little less than a year ago, this law was in Serbia's public life, we changed its members several times, and on this basis, sometimes even in public, there was an impression of changes in legal norms that would be a major question whether they should be defined in the law itself or not. What is important to say, certainly, is that from the beginning of this process, and finally with today's Assembly, we have been open to all objections, to your amendments today, to all suggestions of the public who have had the opportunity to read the law in the last few years, which has been published on the Ministry's website and on the Assembly site, but also some proposals of members or solutions that have been published earlier. I want to thank all those who took part in this. First, to the MPs who in the last few days have given you a number of amendments. Each of these amendments, or most of these amendments, has very specific reasons and suggestions on how to improve the law and how to make all three laws better, although the largest number of amendments is referred to the Investment Act. I would very much like to express my gratitude to my associates and to the Ministry of Economy, to all business associations, and to domestic and foreign people, who have shared in all of this, especially to international financial organisations such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, who through their expertise, through help, have given us the opportunity to learn first, to see what is the parallel practice of the world's best laws, to obtain documents from them and to implement everything that is good and what exists in the world in accordance with our legislation and with the clearly declared objectives of this government to clean our society from the past, in an economic sense, to build a better future, to create sustainable business, on market principles. All of what we're doing and what we're about to explain in this part is very important to us as far as all of these elements are concerned. First of all, most of my exposure, since it's also the most extensive, is the Investment Act. I'll give you a brief overview of the reasons and reasons why we even entered the story of the Investment Law, why we asked that the law be completely changed and entered into such a big business. First of all, repairing the business environment, you know that this is one general position that involves a large number of activities and a large legislative framework and activities at that level, but especially the other part, when you pass the law, how you will implement the law. So, able administration, people who know their jobs, educated, educated, motivated to work. On the other hand, you need good and quality infrastructure, road, traffic, energy, technology, all those preconditions that you need to provide life to businesses. You need companies and companies to carry. There very often we can see in public the question – how are we going to do that to reindustrious the state, how are we going to achieve the former development of industry. There is no dispute here today, all of them, in politics and in parliament, and positions and oppositions, and the professional public agree that production is the foundation of one country's strength, that new technologies should certainly be an integral part of it, that the development of personnel, human potentials play a huge role in all of this. However, there is a problem that these are all processes that are ongoing, and many things have not been done to date. When I came to you last time and asked for your support for the amendments to the Privatisation Act, I was very clear and precise, and I will not repeat the information from that period, how many things we have left in the past, which were the problems that we encountered last year when we took over the Ministry and what it was that we asked you for, specifically, a delay for one smaller number of enterprises, and what it is that we're going to do. What's good is we're practically making this law a new economic philosophy of work. We are entering a whole new principle of future business. Today, re-industrialisation in the modern world is no longer being done under government. He's not creating any more state-of-the-art enterprises. It does not create country-specific circumstances for production, processing, trade and everything else. The state is very clearly defined, which is its role. So, creating preconditions in all these things, from good and quality justice, from good infrastructure, from setting up business environments to businessmen who come and want to invest, to open new factories, above all in branches and strategic directions and in actions that a country defines, to be a commitment of the state. Everything else is in the private sector, private capital. In order for us to attract the private sector, both domestic and foreign, we need to have the preconditions we need and the Investment Law is very important in this process, very important in its root, to provide both information and necessary evidence to investors that they are welcome in Serbia, that they can work, that the state guarantees them rights and that they have opportunities. Unfortunately, it has not been a practice so far, although it has often been declared. I'll give you some information to just know what problems we encountered when we entered and started work, what it was done over the past year to make an introduction to all the solutions that we proposed to the Investment Act. Whether you believe me or not, I will be very responsible to tell you the following information. On September 3rd, I took an oath here for this assembly and became Minister of Business. On the first day of work after that, I asked for a list of investors to be delivered to me in Serbia. I asked professional services to give me information about who invested in Serbia so far, how much state funds have given, whether investors have done their job, whether they have invested on the basis of the funds the state gave or helped them during that period, whether they have fulfilled their obligations in terms of investment, but also in terms of employment. There was no single document, no single document, plain like this, A4 paper, a table could be written with hands, there was no information about what the state had given to, how it worked and what it was. That, should we comment on how ugly, irresponsible it is and what we can say about it. In the period from 2006 to 2013, the incentive, i.e. the investment environment, was largely resolved by direct state incentives. The ten regulations were amended during that period. 273 contracts were signed that were not known where they were and who was responsible for them. It took two and a half months for professional services to find contracts for some at the SIEPA, some at the Ministry of Industry, analyze them, put them on paper and get some kind of analysis that we can draw not only conclusions that we need but that we can control businesses and give the tasks we needed. When we entered into the depth of the problem, the result of that is of 273 contracts, 89 we broke up because there was no fundamental legal possibility to compromise with businesses, to make some annex, in any way to make sure that these companies were not "punished". In 89 cases, we didn't have any elemental possibilities for that kind of thing. It's a very bad piece of information, it speaks of those who signed those contracts, gave consent. Very often it happened that companies that could be seen by business plans that could not meet the obligations of the contract, from the contract, were given funds. That's why we had one situation in 2012, when it was already known that both Agrobank and Universal Bank were in big trouble, where a serious part of the guarantees were given to the state during that period. Some of them are not even charged, so they are being tried against the responsible, and companies are being sued. These are things that we can't be happy and happy for them in any way. Not to talk about it, the particular problem we had, in previous years we have declared our readiness to co-operate with Brussels, to accept EU rules, we have signed an Association Agreement with the EU, and in this area we have not solved key things, and this is a question of very clear defined state aid and rules as far as state aid can be granted to someone. So the cumulation of incentives almost did not exist as a legal act with us, and in particular not by any regulation has so far been defined and has not been resolved, which makes us seriously doubt how it was done. On the other hand, not to mention that it never mattered what the municipality gave, what eventually the province gave, and what it gave at the end of the Republic. You have very clear, precise, EU acts, which we have committed ourselves to, rules under which it can be given and how it works and everything else. So, considering all these facts, we knew that this area had to change, that we couldn't allow such a way of working, that I, as a minister, would no longer receive people who came at the beginning of the inert -- come on, Minister, let's make a deal. There's no deal with me as a minister. There are services, institutions, ways of correcting. Then you realize you don't have rules, you don't have a regulation on what the rule means. Then you have a weak law. SIEPA, our agency, so many times challenged in public, once previously praised, and later challenged, has functioned for years on the basis of one member of the Foreign Trade Act, where it is written in one article – promotion and export jobs and attracting investment will be carried out by agencies called such and such. That's all. It's never been written a good and quality rule about work and obligations. Then we got into a situation that we told you from the beginning, that when I call Director SIEPA, he says -- I don't know who controls contracts, it's not our job, it doesn't say it's our job. Then at the Ministry of Business, they say -- it doesn't say it's our job. We've come to an absurd situation on this matter that we've had to break up. I told you what we did, we did mandatory controls, we notified all the companies that they'd be in control. We've had problems in some companies, we've had problems with state authorities that have conducted the controls, so for a few companies, a memo from the Privatisation Agency, which has been ordered to carry out investment control, that businesses haven't given them invoices, bank accounts, they're taking me out of banks, to prove investment, but they swear it's right and that's how they wrote it. We wrote an urgent new regulation, which we could in the given legal frameworks, in which we defined clear and precise criteria, for the first time made the difference between municipalities. It is not the same as 30, 40 or 50 jobs opened in Belgrade, Novi Sad or Montenegro or Babusnica, it is not the same, it cannot be equal treatment. We have made a division that incentives can be given to foreign investors and domestics, much bigger, right there, if they come to places that are devastated, which have a huge number of unemployed, provided that we can provide them with other infrastructure, personnel and other potentials in that part. The question of this cumulation of state aid has been resolved. We have compared the Commission for the granting of state aid to these problems. We've completed all these processes that I've already described, related to the control that was important to us. Certainly, not to repeat the elemental things, that today we have precise data for every investor, what was his obligation, where he did, how much, how many tranches left to pay, what he already pulled, how many employees he has, so at any moment you have very clear and precisely defined relationships. He had 130 companies in monitoring today, so companies that are active in the process, because you have contracts for three to five years, depending on the contract, and retaining the number of employees with certain conditions. I have already mentioned that the sad investors, that we have made some compromises and what is very important, and often in public, are mentioned, it is a matter of some public and everything else. We have made from the best experience of both ours and in collaboration with foreign experts a type contract, which is currently on the SIEPA site and it will be a practice in the coming period, in which every investor can immediately see through the contract what his obligations are, both his rights and his obligations. It's very important that they get to know each other, because we've faced a situation where some company, which has received funds from the state, tells us – well, we have no obligation in the contract to deliver reports to you and you can't control us. So much for that. In the previous period, too, a very important thing, we have set out to seriously reorganise the agencies involved in this business, above all SIEPA. There is also the National Agency for Regional Development, which should support small and medium-sized enterprises. We have very clearly defined the work that must be done in the next period, the five-year strategy and the action plan in the next two years, which is to support small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs in Serbia, very clearly defined the frameworks and realised that our agencies do not have the capacity to do so. Despite having a large number of employees, the existing Investment Promotion Agency in Serbia and the National Agency for Regional Development has no capacity to realise the tasks the government has set before them. I personally tried as a minister in the first three months with the reform of those agencies, tried with people who came out, people who know, experts in their jobs, to help them reorganize, to make new rules, to bring in a new corporate culture, and that was almost impossible work, an impossible task. At that time, with our World Bank associates, we made an extensive document, which analyzed all the agencies and institutions that we as the Ministry of Business cover and received a proposal from their experts on what direction to do and on which basis one part of this law was done, which is this decision to shut down SIEPA, to shut down NAR, to form a Serbian development agency, which will be a new pillar, operational pillar of development and work. So, SIEPA, we've managed the last few months a little bit, when people realize what's going on, then they start doing a little bit better, we've changed the director, based on our jurisdiction, we've introduced some changes, we've done everything we've said a little bit before and for control and for information and for all the necessary things and elements, in order to have such insight, but we're just going to develop real capacities in the next period. What's important, and this is very important in the solutions that I'm going to give you about the Investment Law, one of the most important things is that investors who are coming both domestic and foreign are connected to our sector of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, to connect them with each other. Those programs didn't exist. Every agency, every firm in this country that the state has given entrusted jobs or obligations to carry out has been doing something for itself, without any mutual coordination, without any agreement. Everyone had a part of the job, looked at themselves alone, and it looked like an army that had all the divisions, but each of them somehow worked, which is certainly a bad example, and it certainly wasn't an honor, especially to foreigners coming from more orderly countries, which are doing differently there in their countries. We in the previous period and with the NGO sector, with NAED, with the Serbian Parliament's Economic Coconut here in the Assembly held a big meeting, which should be an embryo of a new view and talks with foreign investors. I'm talking about big foreign investors. We had guests from General Electricity, who we met here with our businessmen, we talked, there was a prime minister present, welcomed this idea and these things and such activities will continue in the future, just to show what it can all be in Serbia. You have situations that even today's companies working in Serbia, some have received some support from the state through the land, through halls, through state aid or have not even taken anything from the Republic of the State, as an incentive, but only work in our country, 90% or 95% of their repromaterials and the entry elements of imports from abroad, so they are not connected to our centre. At the very end of the line, all of these were the conditions that defined us to go straight into the realisation of the Investment Law and to sit here today, that is today, standing here in front of you and explaining. So, the objectives of the law are generally broken and I don't want to talk much about it, because these aren't things, I believe, that we're going to have disputes about, and that's to improve the total investment environment, besides all the other things I said from the infrastructure, from the judiciary, from a good, capable state administration. So it is extremely important that we have regulated laws in this area, encouraging and developing direct investment that involves new investments from companies that come to us from abroad or reinvestment of domestic economy. Even any foreign company that already operates in Serbia, from "Bosa", by "Leoni", from "Simens" anyone, is today our company. Our people work, an increasing level of managers, highly educated people, engineers, who work in these companies, our people here, pay taxes and contributions, pay taxes, taxes to local self-government, pay all their obligations, such as profit tax in our country, and that is how the state should treat them. So it is important to us, if this is important to Britain, if this is important to Germany, France, Italy, all the great countries of the European Union. If most of the statistics are related to foreign direct investment, why should we be more opposed? Yes, we need foreign direct investment to raise our level of economic capacity, to do that fine re-industration with new technologies, and it is up to us to do everything else we can to connect our country and raise the capacity of the domestic small economy that I mentioned earlier. It is very important to us to protect investors and their interests. Of course, I've already explained the problem we had in the previous period. With this law, we've worked it out in detail. The obligation of the state authorities to control and implement contracts, drafts, memos and anything we agree on in the coming period. So no more questions - who's going to do it and who's in charge? We have very clearly defined who will implement it. Furthermore, we have created a very efficient system, an institutional system of organization of work. So far, you've had either local self-government or some state-owned institution, such as, say, the agency, so the Ministry of Economy, so the government and all sorts of places have had agreements and exchanges of information. Only on the basis of goodwill, personal contact or some other initial elements of trust did you have good communication from locals to the republican level. Now we have introduced it through the law, very clearly defining what mutual obligations are, who does what, who corresponds to what and introduces criminal measures for it. We're simply introducing order where order has to be introduced. What characterizes the most important part of this law is the first definition of what investment is and what is not investment, what is legally what we mean. What is defined in this law is that portfolio investments are not important to the state of Serbia and investments in any commercial business we cannot accept as something that the state should support and what is important to us. So trade is a subject for itself, no matter how it takes place, and in what way, we are interested in affirming each other completely by this law, each other's level of relations in economic life. This law rightly affirms the constitutional principle of freedom of investment with us in the country. There is one expression of the national treatment of foreign investors that we very clearly define, what that means. So, as we now give rights to domestic investors to equalize themselves in some of the rights that foreigners have, we now give foreigners the right, all within our existing laws, only clearly and defining. So that also involves establishing a working relationship, that includes the right to property, service, stock, other real rights to moving things and immovable property. They also have all the right to pay, the freedom to pay abroad, including not only their own obligations from regular business, but also the payment of obligations they have towards the state, the settlement of all taxes and their profits can be freely available, which is also very, very important for investors. One of the important protective elements, which in public caused a little lack of understanding and almost a small storm of comments, when we explained it to detail, especially with interested participants in it, which are business associations, then we came up with a common solution and I thank all those who participated in it, which is the issue of expropriation. The expropriation is otherwise defined very clearly and precisely by the Expropriation Act. That's what the Ministry of Finance is responsible for. However, on the proposal of the World Bank and their experts, they told us – so it is not the same if you are expropriating according to the law established procedure of the house or any facility that serves to postpone things or any other species or if, in that ordinary procedure, you are expropriating a particular production plant or company that generates profits. Therefore, it is impossible and it is not fair and fair to take only the market value of the material facility, so the land and the building itself that is there, but it must open up the possibility that, in the legal procedure provided for, with the determination of the actual material facts, that the value of the expropriation and the fair market fee, there is a difference, if there is a burden on the company given, that by moving production to another location, there are some different or more negative conditions. This is one attitude that fully implies a fair and correct relationship and a state towards any businessman, but also a businessman protects from the state that, in terms of this, it will be at the best of world practice. And we've completely cleared up all the business organizations that deal with this topic, both domestic and foreign, have fully agreed, even on the definition of what it's going to look like in the very things. What is also important is that this law separates investments from special importance for the Republic of Serbia from local importance. You know, if someone has a 50-square store and wants to make another 30-square warehouse, it's not and can't, by its nature, be a national importance or a special investment. That municipality can help him, give him land, free him of certain rights or give him another kind of incentive that local self-government will define its rules of what and how and how it can do. This cannot be the subject of something that will be dealt with by national institutions. In this sense, we have defined the criteria for defining projects of particular importance, and local self-government will, for itself, define in its competences and legal standards what these are criteria on which to give certain kinds of incentives to entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises for development in their local self-governments. Those criteria are written in law. It was a question of why they can't be more detailed and why they're gone, but when I explain these six criteria to you, I hope to assure you that it's clear enough and accurate enough what it is that we had in mind right now, what the idea of this was and what it was that characterized investment of special importance. So, first of all, the number of jobs. It is not the same, as I have already said in one respect, whether it is an investment in Montenegro, or whether it is an investment in the city of Belgrade. That's one thing. The other thing is, it's not the same if there's an investor who hires 100 people, 200 people and comes an investor who employs 5,000 people. He can't have the same term. It's one of the things that will be defined. So the second is the type and the amount of investment. You have investment in equipment, you have investment in rights that can be assessed, you have many elements that describe economic life through their rights that are recognised by the state as investment, but we are not the same, I repeat again, where and what you invest in. First of all, we have again EU rules that define some of our actions that cannot be part of any specific rights under this law, especially in the areas of agriculture, fisheries, etc. But we also said we wouldn't invest in trading facilities. We're not interested in helping the expansion of trade markets or similar activities that can come out. In that sense, it's a very clear message. Also, the impact on the overall external trade balance of the Republic of Serbia. It is not the same investment in some lower intensity, which is either for the domestic market with those declared our objectives to support export development projects and to deal in a serious way or with the strongest support to give to exporters, mainly exporters and those who can create added value. When we're at added value, it's a special treatment. Our interest is, I now associate it with that story of the operational work, and I will return to it later, why we joined the NARR and SIEPU, precisely so that through the same processes of people working in offices together, we can encourage them to talk to investors and through incentives models, but also through models at all, we can also talk to local self-government, how to connect the small sector, small medium-sized enterprises in Serbia and entrepreneurs, and thus, as a result, we get additional chains of value, therefore, add value that is, in fact, the most important and important thing to one country. In that part, all these things I just said will be defined. One thing that is particularly important, which we are introducing as a newspaper, which has never even been through regulations before, let alone through the law, which is the reference and reputation of the companies it operates. This does not mean a discriminatory attitude towards a domestic entrepreneur who has just started to work, or has been working for a few years, so it is not "Simens", or "Boss", or a large company, but it means that we will take terrible care of whom we will give the funds. Do you know what happened to "Aha Moore" and our company in Pirot? Aha Mura, which was purchased and privatised in Slovenia, collapsed in Slovenia, and then withdrew our almost a thousand and some employees in Piroth. We had a serious problem down there. Finally, in my talks with the Minister of Business of Slovenia, in several ways we came to the conclusion that they were investigating who bought it and how there was the privatisation of the former "Mure", the great "Mure", for which we all know in the past how big it was, how this investor made the entire chain of problems for them, but also for us. We protected ourselves in this business, we charged our bank guarantees and the state was protected in that part, but, on the other hand, we lost jobs that were extremely important to us. With that money, we could help another company that would have a sustainable business in the same place today. The law also defined a framework to encourage investment. So these are four already known items. There's nothing new we can do about it. Another public dilemma and the question is whether the government will be able to give more than the state has already prescribed to some of its special decisions or the Investment Council? No, I don't. Everything that is in line with the positive legal regulations, everything that already exists in the state is defined, only here in one place centralized, but in no way can we get out of the box. Therefore, state aid which is legally defined as meaning, tax incentives and reliefs which are also laid down by the laws describing the tax system are defined, customs privileges, in the same way by the Customs Act and the mandatory social security system. They're all possibilities. What, how, on what, will depend on all these conditions that we've just worked on. The most important thing is that we can't get out of the legal framework. How is that going to work for itself? So, the operational Serbia Development Agency will negotiate and talk to potential investors, because they have all the databases and they will soon have, when we make changes in the bankruptcy system, very clear and a base of potential brownfield investments. So, all our companies that are out of workers, and have certain facilities and opportunities and remain as part that has not gone into bankruptcy or remaining, we will be able to offer investors to develop their new economic relations. So, Serbia's Development Agency proposes to the Council for Economic Development, which I will later discuss with the government what its role is, among other things, the level and obligations that should follow on the basis of a proposal for incentives, the Council proposes to the government, the government makes a decision on how the collective body and empowers the ministry responsible for business businesses to sign it. In that part, we accepted the amendment of Article 24, which was very public these days and you could all read about it, probably. You're all familiar with that. We had a desire that because of the existence of five different actors, participants in the process, the government would be a body to which there would be a focal point, from which information would be sought only by this law, therefore, concerning investments. Given that the public has expressed doubts about our intentions, that it has expressed doubts about the attempt to hide anything, we made public two days ago. Here, I now address the Members of Parliament and I will ask you to support this amendment, to delete Article 24, that is, part of the member who defines the Government as the bearer of these activities and to remain a full member, i.e. related to the Law on Access to Information of Public Meaning. Also, as I have already mentioned, we will be able to see, in addition to those data that provide specific figures that can affect a particular company, a problem in terms of publishing that data, through the so-called "templete contract", or a public contract. This law also very clearly and precisely defined what authorities are obliged to do. It's one of those things we talked about, where we didn't have a clear who was in control. So, authorities are now obliged to help investors, control their work, report on it and to work in all administrative procedures in an emergency procedure. Why does it matter to us? Well, so investors don't wait for all those long procedures that we unfortunately have very often in the state. So the administrative authorities are required by an emergency procedure, which defines the law in different procedures different dynamics, but it is important for us to commit the authority to do so. In case he does not, therefore, issue a public order as soon as possible, then criminal measures are also provided. Normally, all according to this if an interested person, i.e. an investor, submitted his documentation to that authority on time. The mechanisms of support for investors. We've already said, we'll have a local office at the bar, or an office to deal with investors. A very important thing, also something that caused a public question, it won't be new employment, it won't be something that extra costs will do to local self-government. We have made it possible for local self-government only to be very clear and precise about who is responsible for working with investors. This is the most important question for us, that we have a responsible person who we know is responsible for a particular local self-government, so that he has clear communication with all state authorities and with other levels of government, but we also knew who to address in case of certain problems. The Ministry of Business Affairs certainly remains in its responsibilities as it has so far. The development of Serbian agencies is an organisational change. So, we shut down the SIEP, we shut down the NARR, we take all the jobs, all the obligations we have as a state will be taken over, and there will be no change. In the preparation of this law, in the good faith that you will accept it and that we will have it very soon and officially adopted, we have begun preparations for realisation and operational affairs, so that these jobs will not cause any problems in everyday work. We said we had a Council for Economic Development to be established by the government in which we defined who would sit on that council. So, economy ministers, finance ministers and labour ministers together with the Director of the Development Agency and with the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce as a representative of the business community. These meetings will depend on the topics invited by other ministers, as well as all participants in certain processes in order to have full, not only insight into events, but competence that the trainings we bring and propose to the Government are really based on best information and best practice. So all we're doing is in terms of good and quality synchronization of all investment activities. In addition to all these elements related to the local, province, or Republic, we have introduced some other very important elements that are part of the process and work with investors, this is primarily the introduction of a project team that has the right to request an investor. All people working on a specific, concrete project will be in charge of the project team. In this way, we will have very clearly defined that all participants of the process, therefore from investors to different state authorities, will have timely, accurate information and a co-ordinated system of mutual relations, again in order to make sure that all information is realised quickly. The investment programme, which was also given as an opportunity to write, will define framework deadlines for bringing the documents needed by investors. Then, indicative deadlines from competent state institutions and a very clear list of all institutions and responsible persons about them who need to implement this. So it's a whole new way of doing things, a new system approach where you won't be able to transfer from one state body to another, who hasn't done what he hasn't done, where what document is missing, and all those problems that you probably, first of all, that you come from local self-government in the largest number, you know what's going on at the bar and how many problems we have with each other, precisely because of non-synchronised behavior and not enough good coordination in this way we're going to solve it. Also, we have introduced another measure, the director of the Serbian Development Agency will, by its nature, have a huge number of data ahead of him, insight into many documents. It won't be possible for two years after the Agency's end of its work to start a similar job without a solution from the competent commission, or agency, and the same applies to all employees within the firm. It happens to us today that someone goes from one state body to all the knowledge, all the experience, all the papers, all the information that gets them at the expense of that bigger salary, and there were a lot of problems that we had to prevent. Another very important thing, and it's in the efficient conduct of procedures. In the event that a state authority, or authority that conducts a particular procedure, does not do its job on time in that emergency procedure or does not implement the time defined in those contracts, i.e. in the investment programme documents, etc. The Serbian Development Agency as responsible for this type of work and coordination has the right to submit a request to the competent ministry for supervision of the work of the management body and to say, below, the ministry, to assume jurisdiction and to solve a specific subject that was directly a problem at a given time. So, to clarify one thing that was also a question on the board just now and in the public, it is not the Development Agency that takes over the affairs on itself, it only informs the competent ministry that there is a problem, explains it. This explanation must be publicly left on its website, therefore, there is a problem at a certain point and the competent ministry in a regular process already defined by the current regulations and laws to address a particular case in the best possible way. It is a very important thing because it also allows us to raise our capacities and guarantee investors that their jobs and their demands will be resolved in the best practice and in the fastest possible way. The last, no less important thing, and that's what I mentioned, and that's the issue of control. Very clearly defined who exercises control over this law, who is responsible for what, in which way all actors in this law will be obliged to have both personal and collective responsibility for carrying out the results. We have been given the World Bank's opinion, in their opinion, to the proposal for this law, which today is before you, the honourable MPs, that it is the closest to the world's best practice. I'm not telling you this because the World Bank sent it to us, I'm saying this because on several occasions the document was at video conferences with co-workers from the ministry and with others who participated in it, saw, debated, debated, up to every word, their experts from London and Vienna. A large number of people participated in writing this law. So, the best world practice, if we adopt it as it is with all those amendments that we have already said we will accept, and there may be something new today that we will hear, which makes sense and what is an important part of the process that can be defined in this sense, is something that gives us the courage to boast about it in a positive way, not me as a minister or anyone from the government, but each of you and each of our investors to know that he is welcome to the country and that he will be protected in the right way possible. The question was whether this law would allow us to have increased economic costs. On the contrary, the cost of economy will be reduced, because waiting time occasionally in the situations that we had in the past is money that a businessman cannot compensate through I don't know what work in the future. So, we don't introduce any new norms, no new taxes, and all the other things that are important and that probably one of you will mention that we haven't finished much yet and that we still have a lot of burden on businessmen and a lot of practice and all that, we'll certainly work through some other laws, this law doesn't directly deal with it. It's extremely important, I ask you to take a good look at the law, to have a good discussion. On the Committee we had good questions and good communication and between MPs who are in power today but also between MPs who are in opposition today, who had very concrete and professional and answers on certain issues on the Committee. I hope that such a debate will also be about this law, because it is very important for us that this law be the right way to win the economy over politics. Over that policy that led us to this moment where we are today, in 21015, where we have 500 unsettled enterprises, where we have hundreds of billions of money thrown into a well for enterprises that are artificially maintained. That we have unresolved dozens and dozens of problems both in the business environment and in our administration and in the judiciary and everywhere, and all the countries, just to get out of the Eastern bloc, have done all these transitions 20 years ago and are now harvesting the fruits of that work. We, in the most difficult circumstances of the major international crisis, may be the largest in the last 70 or 100 years, at a time when we have adopted a huge number of EU rules that are not easy for us. Don't forget, the EU is writing rules for itself. From 45 to further Europe in its economic life is very clear and precise going every day is going up. We've had huge falls. We lived in one world by the end of the '80s, one way organized by the economy, so in the '90s, we said now we're going to get into capitalism, and we didn't know how to do it. So we came here to keep our transition going for 25 or 30 years and what needs to be done in three years, today we unfortunately pay the fat guy for it. Well, we have an arrangement with the IMF, so we have co-operation with the World Bank, with many of the world's institutions, and when an investor comes to you, especially one who wants to invest serious money, so he doesn't care if he knows you or whether you took him to a good dinner, or if you talked to him nicely, he wants clear laws, precise, strong, responsible state. That's why we have to work things out, solve what other people did 20 years ago, or 25 years ago, and we're stretching the same thing. We now have to narrow down in a year, two or three to get into a new framework of functioning, not just economic life, but all of our social circumstances. It's not easy for our people. It is not easy for our people, but according to the results that we can see, first of all at this point macroeconomically, in macroeconomic stability we see what results we get, all the praises we get from those who are most invited to give, so not daily political crackdowns across the media, whether someone has done something or not, but if people who have finished serious schools tell you, people who are seriously paid for their jobs, if they give you recognition, the biggest and most significant leaders of the EU and the world, that means it. It's just that it's important that we don't leave that course and move on. This law is a turning point because, practically since the New Year, we have completed the privatisation process, in the most part and by opening a new chapter in Serbia's economic life, we are practically introducing Serbia into something called the future. To solve this in the best possible way, you have two laws before you today, two amendments to the law, which I will explain, which are very, very important to us. We inherited this difficult past, most of the company from the privatisation agency portfolio will go bankrupt because there are no potential customers. We got 1900 and some letters of interest, we sold so far, I think, one company. There isn't. Investors won't buy the past. Investors won't buy broken halls. When they come to us today they want to see something to do. That's why we helped the "MSK" in Kickinda start working, because investors who are interested want to see the factory work. They want to see people in jobs, they want to see engineers, they want to see the end product. So these are our terms. That is why it is important for us to have "The Irons" work, so it is important that Petrochemy works, so it is important that these great giants, which make us a serious share of our GDP, are seriously employed and have an impact in their chain of production on the serious number of other business entities, to continue to work so that we can privatise them in some period. We can't force them to privatize, if you don't have someone who's interested, what do we have to turn that off? No, we have to work to maintain that system until the moment we can control, and everything in accordance with the rules we've committed ourselves to. I repeat again, and in relation to the EU, to the granting of state aid and to everything that exists. The law on contractual financial restructuring was practically adopted in 2011. It was aid to companies that had a problem with their liquidity, and as a subject of bankruptcy proceedings. So, a company that gets into trouble, to try this way to solve its problems. In practice in previous years, this has not been the best way to go since 2011, so by now, only 37 requirements for the implementation of the procedure have been resolved 13 cases with the amount of restructured commitments of around 30m euros and we have three more procedures, which are under way with the possible outcome of the solution. The others have not been successfully solved. In this practice, it has been observed that there are certain elements that could be either relaxed or made in a certain way to ensure that operators participate more. One of the key newspapers that we are going to introduce in this period, that is, what this law provides for, is first and foremost, the introduction of entrepreneurs in the process of contractual financial restructuring. So this is the only law that in any way solves the financial problems of entrepreneurs. No law ever goes back, entrepreneurs like they don't exist. In total percentage of our blocked companies, 46% are entrepreneurs, and according to 90% of those blocked, entrepreneurs are blocked by one bank, 90%. As a result, we have brought this second amendment to introduce only one bank or financial institution for entrepreneurs as a minimum condition for the start of restructuring, and for all other companies there remain two banks, i.e. two financial institutions, a development institution from our financial sector. And, the third thing that we're introducing, the changes in this law, in the previous period there was a mandatory debt-restriction, which was an obstacle in some moments to conclude a restructuring agreement, and we're now introducing it as an option. If the parties agree that the debt rests and sign such a contract, it is the will of both sides, but not something which will be imperative and intended as an obligation that you, if you have claims from a firm, must wait for some period of time for those claims to be obtained. This would be practically related to the Law on contractual financial restructuring. We're coming to the law, amending the law on the licensing of bankruptcy managers. There are immediately a number of journalists, when we published this law, immediately asked – and, now, is it something to do with your problems with the Privatisation Agency, with the director and somehow everything just happened in the same period. There's no problem. The Privatisation Agency, we're in charge of their work, I made my remarks at the government. We will end this process these days and the public will be informed of the results of this process and not to mention it. This part is a much wider story. We have a large share of the unpaid claims in Serbia, 22% to 23%, and that sometimes changes up or down. It's a serious problem for our country. In that part, we made in the previous period an empiel resolution strategy in our country, in agreement with the World Bank, with the IMF, and that was part of our commitment to ourselves. In this context, the Ministry of Finance and the NBS and other actors have a part of their jobs that they have to deal with, and our part was to improve bankruptcy procedures together with all of them. We have serious problems in bankruptcy. Today we have two parallel tracks. The bankruptcy of regular private companies, which go into bankruptcy and who have some of their lives and control over them, is done by the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants, therefore, gives the Agency licenses, that is, to test people who apply for the job and give them a license to work, but also to supervise these procedures. Over the process of privatising social enterprises and public capital enterprises, the work was carried out by the Privatisation Agency. Then you have two types of bankruptcy in some way. One law that defines it, a law on bankruptcy that is not bad by our law, but we'll change it in the next period, because we have to do some procedures and jobs even better and even better to structure the bankruptcy process ourselves, but you've had two practices. You have two systems, so you don't have each other's coordination, so you don't have the information you need, you don't have the Agency to license bankruptcy managers, you have standards set for bankruptcy managers, which these others don't have to use. At the end of the line, there was no control over all of them. That's why we have such a large number of enterprises in restructuring, and therefore the huge public odym of the Privatisation Agency, because a huge part of the important jobs that should have been done on time, has not been done properly. So, in order to rationalise and effectively set up a system of bankruptcy managers, control of their, education, co-operation with courts, with bankruptcy judges, we need to edit this whole system in a much more efficient way. Practically, we're making a different infrastructure for solving problems with these changes. Why is he bankrupting? Not only because we now have an additional 300, 400 or 500 companies that will enter us, we have about 1700 or 1800, it seems to me, bankruptcy proceedings in progress, and over 5,000 have already been done since 2000. The bankruptcy procedure is part of modern market business and the interest of each country is that the company that enters the bankruptcy, or has a problem, as a corrupt part of the machine, as soon as it replaces it, return it or reparate it, repair it and return it to its function. So we can't let bankruptcy last us for two, three, five or 10 years and that's how corruption develops, because a lot of corruption in such bankruptcys you've had. But, on the other hand, the basic function the state should have is to encourage development and economic life in Serbia. We couldn't separate because you don't have control mechanisms, you don't have a way to do the whole thing the right way. So these are the main changes that we propose in this change of law, and we'll probably see each other in two or three weeks, no, the bankruptcy law in December of the month, and we're going to be in front of you, where we're going to have a bankruptcy procedure in certain elements alone, but only in certain elements to further improve and come up with the idea that this agency, which we call today's Agency for Licensing Bank Managers, is going to be renamed as a bankruptcy agency of Serbia which will have its many broader and different powers in terms of being responsible and controlling the centralised system of bankruptcy in the country, because all countries of the developed world, we need to have this because, this is important to us both for five years to come and for 10 years. So not only in the process of solving these problems from the past. So, honourable MPs, once again, I ask you to support these laws, laws that will really define a completely different path in the future of some of our economic life, laws that will make it impossible for us to have the problems we have, which is irresponsibility, inefficibility and all of the negative things of human nature that we can observe today in everyday behavior. I was on the board today much stricter in some of my descriptions, first of all, of the work of local self-government. I received criticism from one of the MPs that I should not speak to our public in such a way or I accepted it and I really don't. But what I'm saying is that we have a problem in the functioning of our state institutions and in general the organisation system in the state, among the biggest problems is local self-government. Through this law and through these laws, above all in investments, but somewhere in these parts and other parts we will help local self-government raise its capacity, be even stronger, be more powerful and be an integral part of an organized synchronised system that should represent and be the momentum of our work in the future. Dear MPs, I just have to ask the chairman if I'm explaining the bill of...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36831	Yeah. There's been an argument. All together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36832	In 2013, an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Czech Republic on mutual co-operation, which concerned most of the time just to help us, in the realization of many elements important to social life, particularly in economic terms, but also in some other things. In this respect, technical cooperation has been defined in order to improve economic and social development, prepare and implement programmes, projects, development cooperation, procurement of equipment, materials, goods and services necessary for the successful implementation of development cooperation projects, the engagement of promoters of development cooperation projects in the Republic of Serbia for training, consultation, study visits and other types of technical assistance, the sending of planning, monitoring and evaluation missions to the Republic of Serbia to conduct analyses and checks on development cooperation projects, etc. We are grateful to the Czech Government for an agreement like this, because these are basically grants that the Czech Republic is helping us raise our capacities. I call on you to also adopt this bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic, especially that this agreement, or law, in its assembly, was adopted by the Czech Republic in 2013, and we are not until today. So I hope that you will have understanding and that these three laws concerning direct economic life, but also this fourth that is related, because all the praises that we receive and the important instructions from the governments of foreign states, from experts, tell us that even through these things we can raise our personnel, raise our capacities and in that sense be good associates so that we here, all together, will live better and have the result and the country as we expect. Once again, I invite you to a professional, clear, precise debate. I'll be there to hear your every suggestion. There are also my associates to help me with the clarification of certain issues. I repeat again, we have already adopted about a dozen amendments that have arrived so far, and possibly there will be more, because our goal is to get the really best investment law, that we have these two good laws and that we can be proud, because these are the laws of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36833	I thank the ministers. Do any of the reporters want the word, the board of directors, that's what I mean? Did you, Dragane, reporter? (Dragan Jovanovic, from the place: No. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Olga Batic, the smaller club has an advantage, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36834	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, namely today I will, of course, remain primarily on the first two draft laws in this united debate and in principle. The goal of all countries in the region, including the Republic of Serbia, is certainly to attract foreign investment. Foreigners, or foreign nationals from outside the country, are the ones who certainly have more money coming from countries with an absolutely better standard. They are the ones who bring fresh capital into our country, and for these reasons it is clear that the government of the Republic of Serbia is willing to invest in Serbia and thus directly increase living standards. However, the aim of this bill itself is not to encourage foreign investment, but rather to equate foreign investors with domestic investors and thus primarily to improve the business environment, all in order to attract direct investment, while domestic and foreign investment. The increase in investment and the increase in employment is certainly the biggest challenge our country faces and is looking forward to just that step towards equating domestic investors as, I would say, traditionally subordinated and less stimulated by foreign investors. Domestic investment and the development of a domestic environment in which domestic investors will be competitive must be one of the leading tasks, primarily a forward ministry and in general the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is the domestic investor who must be encouraged because, compared to a foreign investor, he does not have a recognizable name, he does not have enough capacity to place his products to the public although domestic products are quite high quality. If we look at the text of the proposed law, then we can notice that in some parts it is quite, I would say, contradictory of its purpose. Namely, Articles 14. The law provides for the customs release of the case, the role of exemption from customs duties and other import duties on imports of equipment representing the role of a foreign investor. It seems to me that such a legal solution is not in agreement with the objective of law making, and in some ways the domestic investor is being discriminated against. In fact, not only is the foreign investor organised enough to have a reputation, a name that makes it competitive in countries far richer than our country, and directly competes with those domestic investors who continue to fight for their share of the market, the foreign investor also has that customs exemption that makes it very much easier for him to break into our domestic market. This measure seems to me to have had to be extended to domestic investors who are just getting the equipment one of the biggest expenditures. If we further look at all of this through the prism of actually funding, then the domestic investor will finance the purchase of equipment from expensive and quite hard-to-reach loans in Serbia, and the foreign investor will obtain the same equipment from cheap loans from abroad, and the benefits for the parties as a direct competitor compared to the domestic investor on our market are thus multi-clyplysed. The bill also envisions the creation of units for local and economic development and investment support as a support entity for local investment. These units, in accordance with the provisions of this Bill we are discussing today, provide professional assistance and support to the investor in the realisation of investments through their employees and appointed persons, i.e. chambers, associations or associations, provided that they can provide professional assistance to the investor with their knowledge and, of course, experience. It is not quite clear, at least this is the misunderstanding that I have, whether the aim of these provisions is actually later to create some new chambers, associations or associations that will carry out such professional assistance, which could, in that case, be in direct conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of Serbia, primarily with those provisions of the Constitution relating to the provision of legal assistance, but thus, in a particular way and the investment process is unnecessarily complicated. In addition to this concern I raised, the education of project teams is also in line with the provisions of Article 22 which essentially carry out legal action. The work of local units is not clear either. In fact, the question arises - and what can a local unit in itself actually do to help the investment process, or to speed up that same process, and what would not represent a clean, so to speak, trade in influence, which our criminal legislation simply norms as a crime? Let's suppose, let's say, that the investor is obliged to pay certain money for the authorities' services in administrative matters in connection with the achievement and maintenance of investments and the exercise of the rights and obligations of investors, and in accordance with Article 16(3) of this Bill's proposal, to pay for a certain amount of money, in order, by its request, to obtain the right of a championship in the issue of public documents, as the law says as soon as possible, then this provision represents a rather disputable provision in the field of the execution of a criminal offence by that particular body. Namely, this is about paying the authorities, that an act that some other authority of the administration normally has to bring, now brings faster. On the possibility of paying to a local authority using its influence in a way that the other administrative authority should not adopt an act, of course, but certainly this authority can be a choice of corruption, and against it we should fight harder and say, in a way and racketeering investors, if you will, and its discretionary powers are quite unnecessary to these proposed provisions, and how they are largely discriminatory from the aspect of criminal law. The particular danger arising from the text of the law is, I think, great intransparency and that is my biggest remark on the bill we're talking about today. In fact, communication between local authorities and investors is considered confidential, and on the other hand, what is quite clear to all of us, is that without great transparency, the risk of corruption is in itself extremely large. There have also been very many words about transparency in the public, and I find it justified to say that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 24 of the law, it is precisely difficult to access information of public importance. The government of the Republic of Serbia is acting on a request for information on investments, which means that if the Government of the Republic of Serbia refuses to provide information, such a decision may be brought against an administrative dispute, and the conduct of a administrative dispute against the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this case will not be conducted on a legal ground, but will be conducted on a political ground and there will certainly be a risk of such a provision of the law, and it is quite, I would say, discouraging to the public regarding the information required. We can conclude on the proposed text of the law that this is the text proposed in the area in which we are facing the need for a new job at the local level, which is again not in line with the obligations our country has made on the principle of reducing the state administration. As regards the second draft law, as regards the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, the essence of the legal changes and additions primarily concerns the taking over of the power to conduct bankruptcy proceedings by the Privatisation Agency. So far, the Privatisation Agency has figured through the creditor of the bankruptcy manager as a bankruptcy manager, namely, in the bankruptcy proceedings of state-owned business entities, i.e. social enterprises. The work of the Privatisation Agency in bankruptcy proceedings was very often under public scrutiny, as it should have been, very often disputed and very often followed by numerous affairs. In many ways, it has also contributed to the inability to control the work of bankruptcy managers. The complaints about the work of the bankruptcy directors were sent to the Agency itself, leaving a dead letter on the paper everything else, and in principle – cadiya sues you, cadija sues you. This new legal solution, in my humble opinion, does not bring anything new in order to protect the rights of participants of bankruptcy proceedings, and I think this should be the primary objective that is protected by this law, but rather on the contrary. We are now in a situation that, instead of the Privatisation Agency, the management of the bankruptcy proceedings is being transferred to the Agency for the Licensing of Banks. Although such a solution in the proposed provisions here is justified by the possibilities, as it is said, of the Agency to exercise control over the work of bankruptcy managers in these proceedings, we have still not strayed from those principles that should have been changed, and for the very reason that, instead of now, the Agency for Privatisation, the Agency for licensing of bankruptcy managers will control itself, the kind of proposal that we have before us and control the work of the trustees of the bankruptcy managers itself. I believe that the proposed law solution is so much worse, which is now the overall responsibility transferred to the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants, which, if you will, is far more destitute from the financial aspect than the Privatisation Agency, and the legitimate claims for compensation to be made to the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, which have arisen or which could arise from the illegal work of the bankruptcy managers, will be left free of charge. I think something like this should be paid attention when doing this bill. The introduction of such a system of self-control of liability discourages the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Directors, or all of its bodies responsible for the control of the work of the creditor, the trustee, to control the work of bankruptcy managers in the proceedings in which the Agency is designated as a bankruptcy manager, as it will inevitably bear the consequences of the illegal work of the trustee. Also, I find the adoption of this law by emergency procedure very, in the first place, unnecessary, and secondly a very harmful solution. According to official data, which I am available to at least, the Privatisation Agency is currently acting as a bankruptcy manager in over 700 bankruptcy proceedings, and it is difficult to imagine that during a short period of time, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks will be able to take control of all these procedures at all, so the damage to this law is being seen and in the great delay of bankruptcy proceedings, which will inevitably follow as long as the amendments don't change something, and as regards all of this. A number of questions are also asked. First of all, was it possible to establish better supervision of the conduct of the bankruptcy process, without touching those bankruptcy proceedings that are currently being conducted, nor of any aggressive request to the damaged? I believe that the answer to this question certainly is – yes, absolutely and instead of giving unnatural powers to the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, the Agency could simply have the jurisdiction to monitor the work of bankruptcy managers engaged as a trustee of the bankruptcy manager of the Privatisation Agency, which could solve the problem of the conflict of jurisdiction which I consider to be obvious here and thus allow for a full transparent control of the public through the Agency for the Licensing of Banks and thus, ultimately, protect any regressive claims of the damaged. This solution is, in fact, merely a transfer, so to speak, a hot potato out of the hands of the Privatisation Agency in the hands of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, and it seems primarily for the purpose of wanting the privatisation agency to shut down more than for the reasons set out in the reasons set out in the draft law, which, unfortunately, I can't agree with, but these solutions can't justify, in particular, the circumstances of being a lawyer, a lawyer, and I know how a number of bankruptcy proceedings are conducted in the country of Serbia. As regards the third law, which we are discussing today, in the principle of legal formulation of the very text of the law, they cannot have any objection. However, our economy, the fact is that it is in a very difficult state and there is no need for any analysis to confirm this and to find out for themselves. In the legal explanation itself, it is pointed out that 27.3% of total loans are granted to businesses in fact so-called. problem credits. It's obvious that at this point, at least that's what I'd say, it has to be approached by any resolution of the current situation, so there's no complete collapse, both the economy and the banking system. It seems to me that here the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in some way, I would say, put before the final act, in fact completely torn between the dilemma whether to give up the portions of its income in the form of tax reliefs offered by the law to banks, and where a financial restructuring agreement with debtors is concluded or to allow the bankruptcy of more than 30,000 legal entities, as many as are in the blockade, or over 25,000 entrepreneurs. It's clear that if the banks start with looting and bankruptcy, we'll have a comprehensive financial collapse. Security funds are low, they're insufficient. The market is low. We know all about it and certainly the banks will record huge losses, which could endanger our country's financial system as well. The big question is whether passing the proposed law is enough in itself. I don't think so. As we know, in the previous law on contractual financial restructuring of companies, only 36 agreed financial restructuring procedures have been launched, and only 12 have been completed and this speaks of the quality of the previous law. The value of the restructured claims was only 30m euros. Laik will, of course, say that 30m euros is quite a large sum, but the problem is that problematic loans already exceed three billion euros. It's a problem that I think he must have seen completely. The problem of uncharging loans is not just something our country faces. That's what countries in the region are facing. Let's just look at the example of Montenegro, where the situation is quite, not quite similar, but some common things, common problems can be drawn. What I'd like to end here and hopefully get an answer to these questions is whether restructuring is going to change anything at all? In order for such a measure, such solutions, proposed in this bill itself, to have any effect, must be followed by new borrowing. The restructuring does not release, as we all know, the debtor completely. Only one system problem is clouded, and time, on the other hand, is expensively bought with new non-refundable loans. It seems to me that by voting on such a bill by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you, as someone headed by the resolution ministry, would, just under the proposed laws we are discussing today, decide on a line of minor resistance and one solution to pump money into a fallen bank, with tax benefits, which is certainly necessary for citizens and must be replaced in some way, most likely by new taxes and other taxes. This way, I must express my concern and appeal to the competent investigative authorities to better control the banking sector, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to more effectively implement the Law on payment deadlines. Since April 2013, when the Law on payment deadlines was passed, by March 2015, the debts of economic operators increased by as much as 40%. No one can say that our entire economy is absolutely incompetent, that it pays off its debts in time, however, it seems that the inability of our economy to collage with opportunities or, depending on which angle you look at, with the inability to collect its claims, and we all know here, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the state is the biggest trustee, but at the same time the state is also the biggest debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36835	The word has Minister Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36836	Dear MPs, I'll give you a few answers, I can't lose them, no matter how much I'm not sure if you listened to me while I lied. I've been very precise in my arguments, and you've understood some arguments quite the opposite. I won't explain them from the beginning. I'm going to ask you to look at the transcript of the conversation, or my presentation, to better understand the laws, but I've already asked, in our mutual interest, that the objections you make be concrete, clear and functional, and in terms of solving any concerns about the law, not to mention the things that I specifically said are not relevant to this law. You've made an observation that we're introducing new organisational forms into local self-government. I was explicit that we are not doing this and that this is absolutely not the goal, but that we are only looking for a responsible person in local self-government who will be a contact person and who will be able to play his part functionally. You made a story about the 24th member talking about the transparency of the procedure. I was very clear and precise a moment ago, and we even made it public two days ago that we would accept an amendment fully defining the role of the Serbian government in this part and that it would go fully, 100%, according to the Free Access Act. Where you deserve an answer is Article 14, where you asked about customs incentives. It was our different idea to solve it, looking for a model to fully equalise domestic and foreign investors. However, according to the positive and current regulations and under the Customs Law, we could not free the domestics, under this law, from paying import duties for certain goods, for which the exemptions are provided by foreign entities, but in the change of the tariff system we will do together with the Ministry of Finance, so that in this part, as regards customs, the principle of equality of foreign and domestic persons will be fully respected. As far as corruption is concerned, your position is completely unclear that someone will have to pay someone in the administrative procedure to get it as soon as possible. On the contrary, we put an emergency procedure in place so that no one would pay and that we would remove corruption and give jurisdiction to the Serbian development agency to propose to the competent ministry a procedure for adopting solutions and taking responsibility to avoid being forced to pay at a local or at any other organisational level of the state. Now that the investor knows that his right is guaranteed, no one's going to fall for a dinar of coffee to buy someone, let alone give money. I totally don't understand your point on that. As for the Agency for the Licensing of Banks and your story on whether or not it was supposed to stay at the Privatisation Agency, I initially said that the Agency's work expertise was given by the World Bank. So people who have much, much more experience and much more knowledge. They gave us a proposal to single out an entire bankruptcy center from the Privatisation Agency. So we're not gonna have any operational day-to-day problems. It's more of a legal transfer of responsibility. You said it nicely, and that is our goal, the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, or tomorrow, the Serbian bankruptcy agency should have responsibility over bankruptcy procedures, and the supervision of the ministry is responsible for business affairs. So, we're not running away, and I just want to define who's responsible for the jobs, because if something doesn't work, today you have five institutions to which a certain business is divided and no one's guilty and everyone moves on to the other. No, we're defining this centralization right now, in best world practice, one place, one unit that manages, or one agency, and we're solving bankruptcy issues. Normally, the question of education is, of course, that the question of incentives to judges who need to have even greater motivation and even greater knowledge, to bankruptcy managers, to respect good business standards, all that we have as a problem. We can't change that overnight, not a single law in the world can change that. It's a process, but in order for us to have a consistent process and a very clear dynamic to define what it is that we want to achieve in the next period, we need to know who's doing it. So, I can't agree with your story, and especially I can't agree with your remark that we're reintroducing it. No, we have given the law amending the Law on Contracting Financial Restructuring the right to an enormous number of entrepreneurs, the new right for people to work better and to solve their problems in a much more efficient way. Well, it's better to get into restructuring than to close down their own company, which the state has nothing to do with. This way we charge taxes and contributions and other companies get their claims. Second, remember that entrepreneurs respond to their assets and have the most complicated process of all. D.o.o. The company can, with 50 or 100 euros, guarantee you with something, and the entrepreneur guarantees his assets. This is of great interest, that we don't leave people without their houses, families, cars and all, if they have any problems. We said we were going to encourage, to go in the direction to encourage the development of entrepreneurship. Well, that's exactly what we're doing right now. What you suggested would be quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36837	The word has a People's MP, Olgica Batic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36838	Thank you. I, of course, cannot agree with what the honourable minister said, for the reason that he stated that he specifically explained something. You see, you don't have to be more explicit and explicit, that you're the one who will explain something explicitly, it's the text of the law that has to be explicit, explicit and clear, not just to you, as someone who defends these laws here, but to be clear to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In every law, even in these bill proposals, you didn't seem to listen well to me, there's something called a legal aspect of the bill. I was just talking about it from that point of view, but, well, obviously, we didn't understand each other. You're not the one who's supposed to agree, as you said, with my story, and that's not my story, but it's my legal position and my legal explanation. I claim, of course, that everything I've stated is something we're just about to face. With regard to the law relating specifically to the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, and you have obviously heard this, as someone who has been a lawyer for a number of years, I know very well how both the Privatisation Agency and the Agency for the Licensing of Banks and the difficulties and parties in the process and their power of attorneys and judges face it. A solution like this, I'm afraid, won't do us any good, and I don't think it would be too bad if you listen to some criticism that some more people have some experience in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36839	Minister, you're only entitled to a replica now, that's up to two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36840	I'll be very brief. I've already said we've accepted a dozen amendments, i.e. I'm told by colleagues 14. We will also accept any amendment that concerns really good practices and the desire to improve this law, but you have not made any concrete points, nor any specific proposals. We'll probably hear it in two days, but as you described, it's principled attitudes and your impressions. I didn't say the bankruptcy system is working perfectly with us and I'm a very serious critic of the bankruptcy system, but we're working on improving it. This is a step in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36841	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36842	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am optimistic that this law will affect the stabilisation of investment policy in economic development and will benefit from undeveloped areas and will speed up balanced regional development in the economic plan. Of course, here I'm going to try and be specific. We also have amendments to this law. The dilemma that is being expressed with us is whether this unit for local economic development and investment support, in which local self-government units are at the centre, or perhaps the efficiency of solving problems in this area would be greater if regional development agencies were offered besides the central development agency? All this in the sense of getting closer to the problems on the ground, because we know the practice so far and we know the sources of the situation that certain areas are quite dramatically lagging behind and that this gap between developed and undeveloped is increasing. I think it's okay that the possibility is that two and more local self-governments have a common body. It's probably also in the spirit of article 89. The Law on Local Self-Government, that two or more local self-governments can form associations and common bodies in order to achieve common interests, of course in the spirit of the law. I think that this solution is probably well taken over and can prove itself in practice effective, but I am still expressing that dilemma whether it was better through potential regional development agencies. There's a word here in one place, I think in Article 17, about creating a favourable business environment. When it comes to undeveloped municipalities, especially as with us border municipalities with very specific problems, with the very severe consequences of the former Yugoslavia's collapse, in many areas, and in the economy rather geotized, because artificially cut natural ties that have functioned here for centuries and connected with areas in Macedonia, in areas in Kosovo, and that still, how many years have passed, it is not working out to solve this very sensitive problem. Besides, it also affects the further lagging of these municipalities. We really have a difficult situation here, and we have attempts to cloud the situation. We often have irresponsible statements to me, not only from the last president of the coordination body, but from earlier ones, where it's spoken on purpose, telling the minors by heart that these municipalities are privileged. Here in the Assembly, since 2007, I have been following, often MPs get the impression that honey and milk have been flowing there, that there are investments that other municipalities do not have. This is also contributed by irresponsible statements, which the last president of the co-ordination body himself has now recently made, in the sense that only subsidies are given there, that funds are given there beyond all other municipalities, and the situation is reversed. The very fact that this estimate of the population is now almost made, clearly shows that in a period of 10 years we have a reduction of 14,000 inhabitants, which is 15% somewhere, not counting natural growth, which is still in these municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedja, greater than in the national average. We have a situation of mass leaving, especially young people who leave their homes and the environment where they were born and lived, because they have no perspective for a normal life, have no prospects for employment. It is said that in the last three years we have, with investment in the European body, about 250 new jobs in these three municipalities. I don't have that kind of data, and that's why I'd like to see exactly where these jobs are open, in which municipality, in which companies, and see if there's really any results from these minimum investments. Such a political climate has been created that even when these municipalities appear in the development funds that exist in different ministries, there is an answer – you have the Coordination Body. And the Coordination Body has about 256 million dinars for three municipalities, I know that from data, which mostly go for travel infrastructure, communal and so on. Nothing goes into development except about 50 million dinars of subsidies for business entities, and those in miniature. That's why I'm asking for a real analysis on the spot of exactly this annual investment of 50 million dinars for economic operators in these three municipalities, and what real effect have they given? Because the situation is that the unemployment rate is over 75% again, we're still six, seven times lower national income per capita than the national average. These things are serious and I think you should leave the fog policy because it doesn't go into anyone's interest. Let every penny that's been given be examined, let's really see if it's true that these municipalities are being invested more than others, and I know, I already mentioned, that we have a very positive example in the neighborhood. You have a municipality of Surdulic, which made nearly eightm euros in projects under the European Union funds last year, in co-operation with a neighbouring Bulgarian municipality. Presevo and Bujanovac can't do that. I ask Minister Sertic – why do we not have cross-border co-operation projects and the framework of IPA funds only with Macedonia? With Kosovo, it's understandable, there's still no climate, there's still no possibility of that coming true. But since we started our path to European integration, with all the countries in the environment, we have with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and with Montenegro, and with Bulgaria, well, it is in the European Union, but also with those not in the European Union, we are achieving these IPA funds, but not with Macedonia, where these most underdeveloped municipalities would benefit. But the situation is what it is, although it was promised in the previous debate that it would look at it with the Macedonian delegation and try to solve this problem, I have no answer as an MP and I don't know why the situation is such that there is no co-operation with Macedonia? In general, without any better co-operation, without all of it, here, these points also talk about customs privileges, there's no movement. What I'm saying is that without some measure from the central level, a favourable economic environment cannot be created. It's not just local self-government, that's clear. They can't create even a small sector of benefits these 10 years that a potential investor would have had to create an industrial zone in which to create a favourable atmosphere or investment opportunities and create jobs. It can't be a municipality, it's clear. And then what? So something from the central level needs to be triggered, but not this game with the Coordinated Body. I'm seriously asking you, for serious things – why is it experimenting these 15 years? If education is at stake, if it's an economy, why are professional people from these ministries seriously not dealing with these problems, but rather avoiding facing these problems and leaving it to some coordinating body that has collected a number of people who are not professional and at the level of experts that the Ministry of Economy has? They couldn't even accept a catastrophic privatisation in these municipalities. They weren't ready for it, and apparently they were doing it. They're trying to do education, and they're not professional at it. Instead of dealing directly with the municipality and that area of the Ministry of Education, it is left to a man who is unprofessional to solve such problems. Now I'm specifically talking about the Department of Industry. Why is this privatisation process, which has been disastrously passed, why is now and this part, in this law that we are talking about, not the Ministry's responsibility to solve problems directly with local authorities, but to make experiments with this coordination body? The only benefit of that, to keep them alive, is the sale of fog and nothing else. This no longer makes sense to repeat, as a representative of the area, that as the situation stands, it really doesn't make sense anymore and we need to get serious. We'll see the effects, a series of these solutions that you've proposed here can give a positive effect, but that's a letter on paper, unless political logic changes in practice. In fact, the approach to solving problems in all undeveloped municipalities, especially in this area whose representative I am, I mean Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36843	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36844	The first question of your regional development agencies, you usually mention it here, and that's what we said last time, we did not use this law to touch their existence and work, and local self-government can also hire a regional agency or more local self-government to engage as a carrier of investment activities. So again, we didn't want to or that's our jurisdiction to determine the local self-government who's going to do it. On the contrary, we have given the possibility for local self-government to determine by means of its act who they will trust and answer to. So I generally thank you for supporting the law and I think it's very important. As far as Macedonia is concerned, we had a joint cabinet session with Macedonia, and it was agreed that in the most urgent procedure, businesses and procedures for the realization of jobs, primarily the withdrawal from the IPA funds, between regional co-operation and it will be completed very quickly. As for the very support of municipalities in terms of infrastructure and infrastructure development, we had this year that program of 160 million dinars that we published in the public competition. A large number of municipalities have come to us and some of the municipalities in the area you're talking about have received support for regional infrastructure, for support for business. And your question about, that is, the dilemma about how the state refers to the devasted areas, I think it is best to this existing regulation that will be implemented in the next regulation, where we have separated in particular four categories, plus devasted areas with the lowest conditions, so 30 employees and 250,000 euros in investment is minimum for someone to count on some kind of incentive from the state. It's below the minimum we can't go under, and for other cities it's much more and that table exists, but especially the devastated areas are covered by such a single decision and we'll continue to do so with that policy. I totally agree with you that it can't be unequivocal, that it can't solve one law, but it has to be comprehensive, but I think this country is doing it right now. I thank you anyway for your remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36845	The word is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36846	The Honorable President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, when we spoke in this tide a few months ago about the amendments to the Privatisation Act, I was talking about it and I said that if the economic situation in Serbia were to be derailed, it would be necessary to bring, I said, at that point, four laws. The first law on foreign investment, that's what I called it at the time, and the second one is the Law on land diameter and catastro. Third law, amending the law on bankruptcy and the fourth Law on legalisation. These are the things we have to do by the end of the year, if we think things change in Serbia. Unfortunately, Serbia's bankruptcy is taking too long, and we here today have the Investment Act, and I then baptized it as a law on foreign investment, because it hurt me first of all, that, in my opinion, investors were maximumly forced in relation to domestic investors, and it's good that this proposal of the Investment Law, I want to underline it, first of all, as a good thing and for the citizens of Serbia, who are watching this transfer, to equalise both foreign and domestic investors. What I mentioned earlier was that, and these are colleagues who spoke before me, bankruptcys take too long, we have dozens of firms that have been in restructuring by this year, which are already in bankruptcy proceedings, I have to ask you, these bankruptcys, when we say too long, we have too long deadlines to declare bankruptcy, we have too long deadlines to re-evaluate the value of bankruptcy, then public advertising to accept it all on the board of trustees, etc. Time goes by, deadlines go by, and we're all in trouble. When I said, unfortunately, and when local self-governments, ministries, agencies, no matter who, find the investor, and this investor buys a bankruptcy firm, he has a huge problem with buying, even from a bankruptcy process, registering on himself, because you have an example in Serbia that this catastre is doing disastrously, to enroll publishing rights, even though it is not legally entitled by former equipment workers, so-called. Executive Trustees, etc. And it's causing us huge problems. Speaking of the Investment Act, you yourself said in your exhaustive opening statement that what we had so far in Serbia was a disaster. Here's to briefly saying that we had 273 contracts, as far as I understood about foreign investments, and 89 contracts were broken, that unfortunately we had practice, that even the bank guarantees given by these investments were later non-payments or that they were from banks that are already in liquidation and all of this led to us having this completely unhealthy situation and that we are now in a situation to save what can be saved. You've simply brought up the genealogy of the problem well, but I have to ask you, who is to blame for it, and I've already mentioned it many times in my presentations, whether you will, and you have had the courage to go out to the public of Serbia as minister today and to say that the situation is bad and that we now have to save what can be saved, but we can't hear who's really responsible for it. To say here who was the minister of the economy, who introduced such a practice to give subsidies ostensibly, so which is the municipality of some minister, and we all know that it was Mladjan Dinkic, like, because there he was in power of his party and he got huge subsidies for employment by one worker and these companies were receiving subsidies. We now have a situation, and I also set a few examples on the Committee on Economy this morning where we have companies that have received money from the state budget, of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who today owe more than 4.5m euros for electricity alone. Who's responsible and whether someone in this country, let's say, people say, will go into custody for this sort of thing that's been going on. It's a company, for example. "Syrmium Style", which is specifically the steel plant in Sremska Mitrovica, which currently owes more than 4.5m euros for electricity alone. How much longer does he owe creditors, other public enterprises, entrepreneurs throughout Serbia, this is an additional issue. Unfortunately, we also have the situation, which is the Valu stocking factory in Valjevo, which also received millions of euros from state money, subsidies and which she said only in one day – gentlemen, tomorrow 250 workers are fired. Did someone call someone to account and say – gentlemen, how if you get that money from the state budget, to hire that number of people, how can you write on the advertising board tomorrow – 250 workers will not come to work tomorrow and no one will answer. This practice has to change, and there's got to be some responsibility here for what someone did, so whether he was the minister, the president of the government, the director of the agency. We all knew, and here I was talking about this tide when we were talking about the SIEPA, about the Foreign Investment Agency, about people's words, about giving money to companies to organize fairs abroad, about the money being pumped up to fund political campaigns, and that we all know that. It's good for the public, too, it needs to be particularly subdued, although you've brought it out, but we need to repeat once again, that when the investment law is passed, two agencies will shut down. It's the National Agency for Equal Development, or as we call it and baptize NED and the Foreign Investment Agency, the famous SIEPA. These two agencies, as far as my knowledge is at this point more than 150 employees, and what's positive and what goes with those promises when we've been giving citizens that we're going to reduce that number of agencies and the number of employees in those agencies, that's good, that in this agency that's going to form, and that's going to be called the Serbian Development Agency, it's going to be employed, by your promise, by the public, and I'm repeating it here by 50 people, that it's going to be an effective agency. Now that I mention this agency for Serbia's development, we should say that this law recognises in itself certain bodies that will implement the law. First, it is a tip for economic development, and here we should note that this advice on economic development, other than the minister who will be in charge of the economy, is now you, and someone in the future who will be after you, then what is important, will be there, that is, the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and the director of the Serbian Development Agency, and they will coordinate with so-called. National projects concerning large investors, i.e. investors, which the state will recognise as investors who can also bring new employment, technology and all that that goes with such investors. What I must point out, since I was this morning this MP who is simply on the Committee on Economic Affairs and on the justifiable criticism of you as a resolute minister to the work of local self-government said that it is not correct that at this time only criticism of local self-government as someone who has worked badly, because these local self-governments, Mr. Minister, should know that since 2008, they have been reducing funds and these are significantly reducing their funds, primarily from the income tax. They are constantly reducing the transfer funds, the parts they receive from the state budget based on VAT that is being collected on their territory. And for this reason, I believe that the state must find ways and means to, above all, through large public enterprises, whether it is the "Serb Roads", the EPS or someone third, to help local self-government, that local self-governments have infrastructure that can create a favourable environment to implement these investments that will be implemented tomorrow by this investment law to bring to the state of Serbia. We must again be aware that these investments will end up in one of the local self-government. This will allow local self-government to have a healthy game so we can compete, but we simply have to create opportunities to have an identical start, which means that the state helps, that we have a plan. I have to say that at this point, the Ministry of Infrastructure, above all, whose framework is construction and urbanism, must take into account more efforts to ensure that every local self-government in Serbia has detailed regulation plans, so it has the opportunity to simply accept these investments in its territory. I said earlier about the debt that unfortunately some investors left behind, what I recognize as the meaning of this investment law, is that it will pull back and create this climate with the adoption of a new set of laws for a more favourable economic environment in Serbia, but I ask you first of all to try to make it easier for the businessmen who are working now, because it is easier for me for someone who employs five people, that someone who employs another 50 or six, to give them a more favourable environment, and we can only enable it if we give businesses the chance to have more favourable conditions, which means that the reduction of obligations and taxes paid to Serbia at this point. You have these so-called so-called. "parafiscal burdens" that you have from local utility taxis, environmental taxis, that you have over 50 things that one enterprise in Serbia today pays for, and that it has no idea what it is, what it pays for, and how much those obligations are, and how many guillotine rules have been announced before you, cannot simply be realized that we know and tell the team exactly and local entrepreneurs how can we help them in the future? It's just that we used to brag when we took off, for example. The fee for city building land, but the entrepreneur does not benefit from any of it if it automatically increases the tax on property and then you have just to say not to be taken from the left, but taken from the right pocket. These are the things that we must all work together to fix this climate and simply enable people to cut first of all the taxes on the paid dinar's salary, because we unfortunately have at this moment that grotesque investors and that they invested in previous years in Serbia pay so-called. ‘minimum personal income’. All over it is paid in black, or paid in hands. And that's the problem where unfortunately we have, at least it seems to me between the Ministry of Bad Co-ordination, we have unfortunately poor coordination in the work of the Tax Administration, tax authorities, that same tax administration knew in previous years that political punishment and I don't know how to check companies, and when it comes to seeing which company has a million-dollar profit and pays people minimum wage, then they don't think to check it out, but when something politically disturbs, there's an immediate tax inspection and tax police to punish people. Dear Minister, you've really got one "hot potato" in your hands, but you're in such a place that, I have to say again, you've got all these problems breaking up somehow on you. I hope that you have enough and support, first of all, from the prime minister and the entire government that this task ahead of us, that this set of laws is passed, I must once again say that things are speeding up in Serbia and that a more favourable economic environment is created, because this is a key thing that will allow this country's citizens of the Republic of Serbia to have a more normal life. I sincerely wish you good luck, first of all in the application of this law. We will all, apart from the Development Agency and the Council for Economic Development, most of our tasks in applying this law will be on local self-government. I agree with you that multi-local self-governments have offices for local and economic development so that there is no need for new employment, but there is a need for human education and it is a strong need for us to simply have local self-governments that unfortunately because of size and, I say, professional structures in its administration, age structures that are not favourable, because because of the ban on employment do not have the opportunity, to say, to pass through that chamber. They're going to have problems applying this law and it's at the Ministry to help them and to simply, to say, educate them in a certain way that they will then be able to help their businessmen and their citizens. I thank you and the NS parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36847	Thank you. I give the word now to Miri Petrovic and then we have a break on a regular basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36848	Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, I would like to say that in the voting day we will support this set of laws. The basic reason is precisely the objective of this Investment Act, i.e. improving conditions and security, legal certainty for domestic and foreign investors. Of course, we care about this economic and economic incentive, but most importantly, it is just the opening of new jobs. As a party that deals normally and in our focus are also pensioners of social assistance and employees, it is very important that we have as many new investments as possible, that we have as many new jobs as possible, that simply foreign, mostly foreign, you know, when we talk about our domestic investors, we have to admit that there are few of them, that there are few that can just meet those criteria that you were talking about and very precisely you have explained this investment law to us. Of course, that's where they're supposed to look at their references. You know, we have supposedly successful companies here, or successful people who have twenty, thirty companies, and they don't have more than two thousand employees. We need to find investors, provide conditions to foreign companies that have the resources, but of course guarantee them that legal certainty here, that they know exactly what they're going in with when they get into our market. I fully agree that both domestic and foreign investors should be equalised when it comes to customs benefits and the reliefs we give them, but on the other hand, we have to admit that we don't have much money and that's why we need these foreigners. We need people who have resources, who can build something here, open and hire, because as soon as we hire more people, we'll have more money for more contributions, there'll be a fuller fund, and then there'll be more regular payments and wages and pensions and there'll be more security. I think it's a good thing that this law, or you did it in collaboration with the World Bank and European organisations, the entities that gave you legal advice and guided you in which direction this law was written, and so all the other changes that are necessary to make it better, we will, of course, support it. The goal of all of us is to get something of quality. The goal of all of us is for this security to be truly measurable. It is important that this development agency, which you will be working on, and the Council for Economic Development and ultimately, these project teams will know exactly what to do, but it is important that something finally starts to work in this country. It is important, in my opinion, that I agree with my colleague Jovanovic, but I think that we should be more focused on the new jobs we should be doing, leaving, after all, who's to blame and who's doing what now, we all know well. There are prosecutors, so let her do research now. We need to turn to our future. It is simply necessary to have this better economic development and economic development. As for this transparency that the colleagues have spoken of, as we have no doubt at all, and we give full unreserved support to the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter, so I think we must trust both the Government and the best intentions when some projects are declared of special importance projects. It's just, there's no reason to doubt all of us, after all, together, to do something finally good for this country. I would just like to draw attention again, our President Milan Krkobic has repeatedly pointed out that there are no extra employees, but there is no job and of course he does not mean literally, no. In Serbia, in general, few people work. Of course, in some segment, we have more. These people should be hired, transferred, but generally, we in Serbia have few people working. That's why we need investment, but we also need our market to finally be arranged, so the PUPS parliamentary group in the voting day, of course, will support all the laws you've passed here today. I have to thank you for really giving very clear and precise clarifications to the laws we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36849	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need to consider and bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Dear Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I hereby set a 60-minute break. We continue work at 14.50 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36850	We're going back to work. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Dr Vesna Besarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36851	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, our distinguished guests, fellow MPs, the subject of my presentation is the Investment Act. In fact, we are aware that the delay and agreed dynamics of the total, and, above all, structural reforms have adversely affected the level of investment activity in the country. In the period 2009 to 2014 investment was much lower, at a significant lower level than in the previous period until 2009. Unfortunately, the lowest relative to the country in the environment, partly due to the instability of the global economy, political uncertainty and increased geopolitical risk, but largely due to the country's internal opportunities. A insufficiently attractive environment for domestic and foreign investors cannot change from today for tomorrow, but a favourable tax regime, good educational potential of labour force, geostrategic advantages of the country, regional position, etc. are undoubtedly elements that stimulate investors. The adoption of this law, which is before us, is part of this framework, an institutional part of that framework, which is in line with the programme established by the IMF and the government's 2015 programme. Modern standards of international investment law were applied in the draft law, and with respect to investor rights and the establishment of an investment framework for the efficient provision of services to investors at all levels of government in the process of preparing investments, as well as during its realisation. For the first time, the Council for Economic Development and the Serbian Development Agency is being educated in order to more effectively realise investment and reduce the risk of duplication of businesses, and above all to establish control of the implementation of elements, which has been almost ignored in previous investment laws. The main objective of the proposed law is to improve the investment environment in the Republic of Serbia, encourage direct investment in order to strengthen economic and economic development, increase employment, increase efficiency in the provision of governmental services, and through them much stronger, than so far, presence in all stages of investment and globally in terms of creating an investment environment. An increase in investment is a key prerequisite for implementing the government's policy development. In this context, the Investment Act is very important, because its application should equalise the treatment of domestic and foreign investors, ensure a higher level of protection from expropriation procedures, regulate investment incentives, measures to achieve the competitiveness of local self-government and actively involve authorities in promoting investments, but also in controlling the implementation of projects in the area of investment. The proposal for an investment law, which is ahead of us, introduces several significant newspapers and improvements in relation to the current Foreign Investment Act and those laws that preceded it, because we have a very long history of adopting common investment laws, investment investments, foreign investment, whatever those names were, but they regulated the investment of foreign partners in domestic economy. The first is the formal-legal equalisation of domestic and foreign investors who are now enjoying equal legal treatment. Furthermore, investors are guaranteed the freedom and right to invest according to the standards of best investment law known to international practice, the investment framework for the efficient provision of services to investors in a newly engaged way by public authorities. The big news is also the new role of the authorities of local administration and the province, then the obligation to keep a record of investment of local importance, education of project teams, establishing an investment programme with investors, promoting competitiveness, etc. The investor-attractive factor, which promotes the new Investment Act, is the introduction of incentives for investment, and in line with the regulations governing state aid, which is also a newspaper, followed by tax incentives, reliefs, taxes, customs benefits, which all taxpayers and contributions in Serbia are entitled to. The expropriation of the investor's assets, which was mentioned earlier by Mr. Minister, provides not only a fee for the property which has been expunged, but also a new category - a fee for the value of the business suffered by the investor whose property is the subject of an expropriation procedure. On the institutional plan, the most significant newspaper is the formation of two institutions already mentioned, which are conceptually very well imagined. Of course, it remains to be seen to what extent they will justify our expectations. An analysis of the effects of investment and the monitoring of the problems encountered during the implementation of the investment contract has shown that there is a need for institutional support and better coordination of public authority holders at all levels of government. In particular, I would single out one new part of the proposed law, which is part of the species, criteria for investment according to importance and encourage investment. Not only because it represents a complete newspaper compared to the rules so far, but because it contains, in itself, some new and significant solutions. For example, investments are separated from particular importance for the Republic from investments of local importance, investments are defined as of particular importance and the possibility of granting state aid is envisaged. The grant of State aid shall be brought without publication of a public call. The legislator's intensity is no doubt to provide the government with an active role in attracting and realising investments. As a result, Articles 12 and 13 foresee that the Government will identify the criteria under which investment is defined as investment of particular importance or local importance, then that the Government will determine the criteria, conditions and method of attracting direct investment and keeping records of approved incentives closer. This solution is not in itself the subject of criticism, although it contains a dose of legal uncertainty that investors can interpret as the volunteering of authorities. In fact, if the sub-legislative acts are passed within a short period of time, within the time limit provided for by the law, and we will have an amendment as a party, and contain the transparency of the criteria taken between national business practices, then the legal uncertainty element will fall or become aware of the least possible measure. My general impression is that this bill provides for a large number of sublegal acts, to say more than usual, that certain issues could be regulated by law rather than left to later regulation by sublegal acts. This would give the impression of greater legal certainty and transparency of investors. On the other hand, I understand it's about time, because it's easier to bring legal text with the possibility of later adoption of sublegal acts than to regulate everything immediately at the moment when the law is passed. The same shall apply to the absence of provisions on how to exercise certain powers and tasks of the Economic Development Council and the Development Agency, for the appointment of board members, directors, etc. However, these gaps can be successfully solved by appropriate sublegal acts, but these acts should meet the conditions that I was now talking about, to become part of a consistent investment framework that the investor could easily and reliably meet. Now we have several concrete suggestions, which we have as a party and translated into amendments. I'll skip what applies to language improvements in Article 2 and move on to Article 3. The law, position 2 under point d), which is not well formulated, is not legally well formulated. Namely, the word: “getting ” should be left out, and“ verified intellectual property rights ” mean nothing. Namely, the position d) should read: "the right to intellectual property that enjoys protection under the current regulations of the Republic of Serbia". It's a legal formulation. The verified rights do not know the right of intellectual property. It's a colloquial, descriptive name, but not professional. In Article 5, we also have suggestions. The proposal for this member of the law raises questions which are not necessary to regulate and is less clear than is provided for in the applicable law. The first position of the proposed member shall be in line with the provision of protection of rights acquired. However, the second position of Article 5 provides that, if the investor has acquired his right by means of a freight contract from a transporter whose right is established by a judicial administrative act, and that act is subsequently abolished by an emergency remedy, the right of a security investor cannot be withdrawn or restricted. I must point out that the current Investment Act in Article 9 contains a good formulation, which is not complete and that it is our suggestion that this current Article 9 be completed in this way. Namely, to add - securely acquired rights by amending a legal administrative act. So, now the text of Article 5(2) would read - the right of a security investor cannot be taken away or restricted, of course, it is legal certainty, by amending laws, other regulations, meant by sublegal acts, or by abolishing administrative acts. This formulation actually consumes everything that is less fortunately proposed in the bill. There's something else to point out. In this attitude, it's about freight contracts. All investment is cargo business, there's no good business. Therefore, insistence on the term "terrestrial" can, but it is not necessary, because there are no good jobs in investment activity. All contracts, as soon as contracts, perse is freight. The next thing is Article 7. This article refers to the national treatment of foreign investors, so Article 3 provides that a foreign investor may, in addition to the right of property to immovable property, as provided for in Article 20 of the applicable law, acquire property, service, supply and other real rights in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the law. However, the bill leaves out a provision on a more favourable treatment. That more favourable treatment provision has a Article 13 of the current law, and I must say, Mr. Minister, was in all the investment laws since 1968, when the first Foreign Investment Act was passed, or as we called it "joint Vencher", because we didn't know exactly how to translate it into Serbian. The question is why did this provision, or this idea, not find a place in the bill? The content, to explain briefly, of these ideas is that if an international or bilateral agreement, whose Member States are investors, provides for a treatment that is more favourable to a foreign investor than the treatment provided for by this law, the foreign investor has the right to call for treatment under a bilateral agreement or international convention and will be applied to it, as determined by international law above national law. That provision all the laws had. She's left out, whether she's a failure or not, I don't know why. I'd like to hear your explanation, if you have it. If you agree that this should be accepted, then we are left with a committee to make an amendment that could be entered into the text of the law through the committee. Then, I have a suggestion to introduce a new member of the law, which, in my opinion, is also unwarranted, which is a member of the 18th applicable law, which concerns environmental protection. It's also a very significant member of the law. It is significant because experience in investment investments has shown that foreign partners have situations where investing their capital and building investments leads to damages, destruction or serious environmental damages, which they do not intend to compensate or are very difficult to compensate for in part. Because we have such negative experience and there has been a disturbance in the conservation of the environment, my proposal to enter into the existing bill a new member who would read – investor, domestic or foreign, in the performance of his investment contract, is required to always comply with the rules governing environmental protection. It is not necessary to provide for sanctions, it is provided for in environmental regulations. As for Article 24, Mr. Secretary has already spoken to him, we've been following the controversy that was in the press. The opinion of our parliamentary group is exactly what is accepted in the text of the amendments, i.e. we believe that the solution found in the current draft law in Article 24 is not acceptable, because it is the right for the public to know what is going on with citizens' budgets. On the other hand, we are aware that contract partners have the right to a business secret, but we also know that the proposed solution is being removed from the authority of the Commissioner for Public Information and that this jurisdiction is being transferred to the Government, i.e. to the responsible person, and the responsible person in the Government is not the person involved in the foreign investment. That is why we are very pleased and accept, of course, the amendment of Article 24 and, in that sense, we have given the amendment, so I would not now take our time together. So, Article 24 should now read – access to information of public importance is achieved in accordance with a law governing free access to information of public importance. That's where we agreed, and I wouldn't further elaborate this member. Then, I would return to 120 days for adoption, which is provided for in the draft law on the adoption of sublegal acts. I think it's a long deadline, especially what the law predicts, as I said at first, a large number of sublegal acts. A large number of sublegal acts carry with them a single dose of legal uncertainty and I believe that 120 days, that is, four months from the day of law-making is one period that will actually block future investments. Also, it will greatly affect law enforcement. Also, any delay in making sublaws will block the application of the law, and does not mean that there will be no delay if we give such a long deadline. In our legislative practice we also had such a case. On the contrary, shorter deadlines are often respected than long deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts. That is why the proposal is and it is given in the amendment, that the deadline of 120 days should be reduced to 90 days from the date of entry into force of this law, which seems quite enough for us to bring the truth, a large number of sublegal acts. One more question about dispute resolution. Dispute resolution is now foreseen, a solution contained in the existing law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36852	Time. Please, your time is up. You've been talking for over 20 minutes. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36853	All right, then I'm done. So let me just say, if you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman, a single suggestion, and the suggestion is that, the Ministry of Economy, you should prepare a portfolio for investors, maybe you're already working on it, and that means that the Investment Act and all sublegal acts are in that material, in order to facilitate foreign and domestic investors. In the end, we, as SDPS, will vote in favour of the Investment Act. Thank you, and I'm so sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36854	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36855	I thank you for your very comprehensive explanation and for your comparison with the current law that is in the procedure and I will give you the answers right away to your specific questions. In Article 3, we have already agreed to accept the changes that you have proposed, but we have several other MPs who have proposed, so that part is resolved. In Article 5, we will also accept not what you have written down an additional explanation, but a completely different attitude to erase. Just so there was no doubt, most of them had such a similar request and we felt in agreement, first of all, with business associations, that this would be the most complete solution. As for the protection of the environment and the member who would directly point out this, we have an existing Law on the protection of the environment and it is understood that all investors, all businessmen in the country must absolutely deal with it, especially what, a serious part of the EU chapter and accession negotiations deal with the problem. Believe me, it's among the first things when you talk to, especially foreign investors, that they take great care of how it's legally arranged for us in the country, what are their obligations, because they know what kind of punishments they can suffer in their home countries, and they certainly don't care that they make a problem here in Serbia. As for the deadlines for law enforcement, our original proposal was 90 days. We even thought about putting a slightly shorter deadline, 60, so it was 90, but the insistence and the proposal of experts of the World Bank, because of the complexity of transferring competences from two agencies to the new agency that we're going to form, as far as the paperwork and documents and the continuation of projects and programmes that work both on SIEPA and on the National Agency for Regional Development, they simply suggested that we leave that deadline so much, with all the sublegal acts being brought far, far ahead and we create this portfolio that we're going to promote and print and give in electronic form, just as the package you were talking about, which is the essence of our work here together. Through the sublegal act we will define very precisely, and in the very creation of sublegal acts we will also talk to all the participants with whom we have created the law and made it, because it is a single system that needs to give us a complete environment. You mentioned arbitration, unfortunately you didn't have time to mention it anymore, but I suppose... (Vesna Besarovic, from the place: I couldn't finish thinking, I didn't have time. I'd like to ask you, if you can only afford a minute, let's just see if it's on the back of what we already are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36856	Well, Mr. Minister, I still have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, so I'll make a concession in this case, but it's not according to the Rules of Procedure. Please, sign in. Just an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36857	I'll be brief. I just wanted to say, I'd like to welcome the introduction of a mutual attempt, of a mutual solution. It's just a question of whether it's a contractual solution to the resulting dispute in investment investment obligations or possibilities? In Article 2, I, as a lawyer, conclude that this is an obligation, because you say – if within 45 days of the date of the start of negotiations on the settlement of the dispute, it cannot be settled dispute, it goes to court or arbitration. Legally, however, I come to the point that it is mandatory, but it does not stand for the word "must", it does not stand, it is a reference norm, as we say. So, what if the partner doesn't agree to access the settlement agreement? That's the suggestion. And just to remind you more, Mr. Minister, what is your position on the situation where an international investor contract guarantees a more favourable treatment than the treatment we foresee with our law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36858	Thank you. I apologize to the MPs, and the time you've exceeded will be taken from your parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36859	As far as arbitration is concerned, we have accepted the amendment of that member, in the sense that it is optional to put it in order to resolve the dispute by agreement. Therefore, we do not imply the norm that it must be so and that we give that period of 45 days, so there is a possibility, if the parties are interested, they have both arbitration and domestic courts and all other legal acts at their disposal. As far as this predominance of signed agreements is concerned, this law, as it is written, does not rule out legally defined, but the possibility that what exists as a greater possibility of being applied to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36860	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36861	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the JS parliamentary group will support all the laws that are on the agenda today, and in the first part of this session, we have had the opportunity to hear one, I can say a little exposé, or a good lecture you've had, and it's about all the three laws you've talked about. In creating preconditions for the arrival of investors, of course infrastructure is important and most important are some legal norms, and the law we are discussing today is only one in a series of laws that need to facilitate such situations. Your discussion showed that investors were more concerned at some point than the state and the money they were given for use, on the question of what conditions. Unfortunately, as a rule in Serbia and no one was responsible for that. You said that today is already defined exactly as the funds are given, what is the obligation of one who receives these funds and who controls them. You've reorganized the agencies, it's good, I personally find that the agency's quite disturbing because unfortunately there are more in Serbia than there should be, but there will certainly be one agency that's qualified as you told us today to take care of all these things. You have suggested that new investments, investors are imported and that they act synchronised and that the incentive given by the state makes more sense. To employ those who can prepare certain resources or repromations for their production, or to give them some local logistics, when it comes to providing some service. A good example for this is certainly the city of Jagodina and what Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma, president of our Parliament group has done and has been doing for the last eight years, which is bringing investors and filling that industrial zone. Why do I say that? At one point today, you said that we should define and that we have already defined in some way who are people who are in front of local self-government taking over the obligation to communicate with the ministry, with these investors and who are the people who, conditionally speaking, should be at their service and coordinate all of this. Perhaps one of the proposals that you should not have respected is the current training of people who are engaged in local economic development in cities and municipalities and to make some classification of their experience or knowledge that they can do such jobs at all. I'm not sure that we are now able to say that every city or every municipality is ready to respond to such a challenge. Accordingly, it may not be bad if this experience that Dragan Markovic gained in the past eight years and proved that one industrial zone can be filled, you find a way and divide it through the ministry to other local self-governments. You're the ones who have to recognize people like that. These are, first of all, skills. Some things they can't even learn, there's just some people who can do some things. Perhaps you need to deal with the formation of a group of people who can eventually be a communicator between the ministry and such companies. I would like to ask you to pay attention to the six amendments submitted by the Republic of Serbia's economic couscous. I'm also a member of that KOKUS, in particular we'll probably be talking about all these amendments, but for now, I'm just asking you to respect them. The second law, which is on the agenda today, is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants. I gave myself the right today to see what's going to happen when I type one of those things on the Google, and unfortunately what happened doesn't look good to me at all, and these are the headlines that we can find in our daily presses. It's about like this -- how two managers don't get tired, and they run 52 bankruptcys, and down there is an explanation that the maximum payment is 43 million. According to the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, the amount of 43 million dinars is the largest ever paid in the name of the award to the bankruptcy manager. It's a company whose assets had over a billion dinars liquidated, and the gross reward of the warden by law is of course 4%. Next, bankruptcy managers get rich, businesses fail. The bankruptcy directors make millions. How much the state was cost by bankruptcy managers, and then he says they made 2.3 billion dinars on bankruptcy. The next in a series of titles is – bankruptcy managers don't bury, maybe this one and the least, they just say they're ingesting the ashes at the end. People don't think very well of them. I'm not saying that the Agency has made some of its failures, it's just that there are defined rules as how a bankruptcy manager becomes himself, but today you said that we have to change the law of bankruptcy. I would ask you to get that law into the process as soon as possible. Because every day, and more and more of these titles, they don't just rub off on some people who do this job, but first of all, there's one big damage to the economy and the economy. The third law is a financial restructuring agreement. It was adopted in 2011. Based on this experience of four years, as far as we're concerned, the information you've given us is that 37 demands have been filed so far. That 13 requirements have been resolved and three requirements are ongoing. It's a very small number of demands. I'm counting on it right now to make it easier, where you said that entrepreneurs would be able to use this kind of service, this number would certainly be bigger. It is also important that the debt rests with the agreement of both sides that it is no longer an obligation to rest, but simply, if they agree that it can rest. My question is, since you also said that in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and that all the people involved in this process, there is one great experience, that other things have slowed them down, that these requirements are no more, that this law will allow them to be more. My question is whether you had experience and whether you were thinking about public enterprises when you proposed this law, in fact, in 2011, it was adopted when you were making changes. We have a large number of public enterprises that have similar or similar problems as do companies in the real sector. My question is whether there is a possibility that we can help these companies in the same way, because, specifically from where I come from, we have public enterprises that are in very difficult financial situations, one is in a slightly longer blockade, and the other is on the verge of being in a similar situation. Is there any possibility of reacting and preventing both companies from experiencing the same fate? I repeat again, for these draft laws on the agenda today, the JS parliamentary group will vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36862	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36863	I thank you for your support for the laws, and I will give you an explanation on the matter of local self-government, you are absolutely right that today, in addition to all the criticisms that we are giving, it is very important for us to raise the capacity of local self-government to help people do their jobs properly. We didn't want to, nor wanted to interfere with local self-government decisions, but the only goal was to define clearly and precisely who was responsible for the affairs of the investment office in every local self-government in the state. What we've given as a possibility and I think it's broad enough in the law, which is, it can already be a person who's trained or employed within local self-government. It can be given to someone who does, some association, therefore, from chambers of commerce, from the local office of economic development, from the regional development agency, could be some local association, which is strong enough and has the support of local self-government. So local self-government must by its law enforcement act make a decision on who is going to do it. That's enough for us and we have a name and addressee for all these jobs. We will prescribe the minimum rules that are needed for a person to be able to do jobs and and simply, it is from this practice of worldly one of the very important things. To your satisfaction, as well as ours as a motionary, I can say that we are all six amendments to the economic KOKUS Assembly of Serbia we will accept in the day to vote for it. As far as the bankruptcy law is concerned, in December we will enter with amendments and additions to the Bank's bankruptcy law, and you have just absorbed one of the problems that exists in the bankruptcy process, which is the very work of bankruptcy managers, and we will see how we will manage it in the future and how it will be controlled, but in this part, we will, when I have explained earlier, and we have said that there are two independent systems where there is control in one, and in the other there is no control, and that is, a problem that has caused a large number of problematic situations, especially for social enterprises, i.e. enterprises with majority state capital and the Law on contractual financial restructuring, there are no limiting circumstances in the way of organising the company. So, any, even public enterprise, can voluntarily enter into the negotiation process and take advantage of all the rights that this law carries with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36864	Do any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36865	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, co-workers of Mr. Minister, is today in this debate several laws ahead of us, but it is obvious that in this debate we have the most interest in the Investment Act. We discussed this with both the Minister and the members of the Committee on Business on the Committee, mentioned some topics, and I think it is important to come from the arguments we received in this material, which is the state of investment in Serbia from 2009 to 2014, which we have received as a data that is a bit odd, so I would like to clarify what this really means. The one who read the argument could see that we have clear information, that the continuing decline in investment in that period with the argument that the average drop in investment is minus four percent, or four percent is the annual decline for the five years. That in 2013, and in 2012 as the year when the current coalition led the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the decline in investment was 12% and 13% in 2014. A simple collection is 25% for five years, which is an average of 5%, which means that the minus four percent data, because it's a strange choice of that period from 2009 to 2014, and we have growth in those previous years that positively affected that percentage. So this speaks of a general explanation in which most often, and here some colleagues have heard, mentioning the reasons for the decline in investment, the economic crisis in the world, regional instability, market instability, but there is not a single ton of self-criticism and recognition that the reasons lie in us somewhere, that the reasons lie in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in you, in the Prime Minister, all ministers, and of course, local self-governments in the part of responsibility that they have in encouraging local and economic development. So that's where you talked about the lack of activity. I will be gentler even than you, insufficient activities of the president of municipalities and cities and insufficiently effective approach in this topic, and I agree that this is one of the key topics, the most important topic for all mayors, of course, that in the context of the incentives of local and economic development we also have a desire for making local self-government as comfortable as possible and in an infrastructure sense and in any other sense. So, so much for the introduction and the need, I think it's very healing to go out and say clearly – Yes, and it's our fault that we have such a dramatic decline in investment in 2013 and 2014. I'd like to analyse the draft law with three basic aspects. One is what is a fact and the Democratic Party doesn't have to talk about it as an MP for the Democratic Party, I think they speak enough of independent agencies and independent individuals talking about this law. So one of the things is this document that we have received, certainly each of us MPs, which is the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which lists about 20 members who of this law, who open up the possibility of corruption. So, one serious topic that needs serious access. I think it is important to mention this, because if we have an objection to 20 members of an independent agency in a law that has a total of 45 or how many members, then we need to ask ourselves what the quality of the law is and talk openly about whether this law is when we talk about transparency, the possibility of corruption and real centralisation, and that's the second topic I'm going to talk about in the light of this law, in fact, the Law on the centralised of corruption at the level of the Republic of Serbia. One of the members, in order not to speak in general about the impressions, also had the transparency of Serbia, it certainly came to you, had similar remarks from the Commissioner for Public Information and Frankfurt, who proposed the amendment. We also proposed an amendment as well as some of the parliamentary groups that talked about it, Article 24 and access to information important to the public. I think it is a very important role for the public and proves that this law was not ideal in the proposal. You admitted it yourself, and it's a good thing you confessed. But, argument, they've been working with prominent experts, excellently, both the World Bank and the IMF. It wasn't enough to say that it was a perfect law, because here we already have the first proof, which is that, by your recognition and acceptance, Article 24 is deleted, because it doesn't comply with our laws. So there may be a problem in some other members. I would like to list some of these members, and I was pleased that in the meantime, in this debate, you mentioned that one of the amendments that we, as a parliamentary group of the Democratic Party, had given, just after commenting and Article 4. I think it deserves it because it is short to read it, which says – Domestic and foreign investors enjoy the freedom of investment in accordance with the Constitution and the law. A second position – The protection in investments carried out in accordance with the law shall be guaranteed. I think this Article 2, actually, attitude 2 is completely unnecessary. I think it's unnecessary because this 1st attitude is enough to define that right. We see the same thing in Article 5. – The investor enjoys full legal certainty and legal protection in respect of the rights acquired in investment. The second position — If the investor has acquired his right by means of a freight contract from the transferor whose right is established by a judicial administrative act and subsequently the act is abolished by an emergency remedy, the right of the security investor cannot be withdrawn or restricted. What's protecting himself from these? Unnecessarily, you yourself have now accepted that our proposal for an amendment "is deleted Article 2", something that is quite logical. What does this extra standard look like to us? It is similar to the need to protect some of the controversial investments or some of the disputed contracts, such as "Belgrade on Water". We can assume that this is so, that one contract, a private investment contract, is being converted and here in the Assembly we voted on a Lex specialis that turned a private contract and a private investment into a public interest. We now have two attitudes that we agreed were not necessary, but that need to, by further standardizing the protection of such or similar investments, something that might give us the right to question that subject. I will speak again in the light of possible corruption and in light of the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, something most visible, Article 11, which is said to be – for investments of particular importance, a proposal to grant state aid is made without publication of a public call. That's really unacceptable. This is really unacceptable and it is one of the amendments that the Democratic Party has proposed precisely in the need to protect the entire system in Serbia, because we have talked so much about public procurement, the Law on Public Procurement and the need to protect all producers and the right of all to an open and fair match and competition. I call on all MPs to vote in the day of voting unless, of course, the minister accepts this amendment, declare something that is only logical, which is to adopt this amendment and delete this position. There will be more opportunities to talk in particular, but these members are very characteristic and I would mention some of the important ones in that part because it is indisputable, the interest of all of us Serbian citizens, the interest of the Democratic Party, to find solutions that will truly and in the right way boost investment in Serbia. We can only think about how effective we will be at that goal. Article 12 here says and talks about criteria on which to establish the importance of investment. It is important to quantify the number of new jobs here, and I fully agree with these criteria, because I think it is extremely important to start from the number of jobs that are being opened thanks to the incentive of investment and I would like to point out something special that is very important, which is that both in this debate and in an explanation for the adoption of this law is constantly mentioned equalising domestic and foreign investors. I think these are false arguments, because so far, both domestic and foreign investors have had equal rights based on the Constitution. But I think the more important argument is the one that is seen in the third criterion, and who needs to be insisted on and with which I absolutely agree, which is more important than whether it's a domestic or foreign investor, that the incentive is given to whoever is working on export projects and who can contribute to the reduction of that foreign trade deficit. I think it is one of the key arguments and we will certainly support it with something that you probably forgot, which is an incentive for sustainable development and green technologies that have not been introduced as one of the basic criteria in the development policy of the serious countries, which is one of the important criteria that I would add here and one of the amendments that the Democratic Party's parliamentary group has given and the addition to some of the other criteria that I won't talk about in detail. What is important to us, of course, in Article 13, we are talking about investors who exercise their right to various incentives for investment and in accordance with the regulations governing both state aid and tax incentives, is a particular topic of state aid, where we have given an important amendment, I think it is also extremely important in this public debate, which is that investors who exercise the right to incentives must focus part of these incentives on the employment of women, people under the age of 30 and persons over 45. We know that these are the most vulnerable groups, that they find the most difficult jobs and when we have discussed this need for a specific workforce, where they appear, and you mentioned some of the companies that are looking for at least 10,000 people, labour, especially in the textile industry, then we can, of course, expect interest in southern Serbia -- Leskovac, Vranje, Pirot, Nis, where we have a tradition of the textile industry and where this population and those women who have lost jobs somewhere in these great giants are particularly threatened. I think it is very important that we support these women by just adopting this amendment and one of the criteria that can be implemented in this law. So I think we've opened up a dialogue process and I think it's important that you accept these amendments. We have more, there won't be time to talk about them in detail, because I'd like to mention now another aspect that is very important. It's a question of decentralisation. So we're talking about the centralised ratio of resources and possibilities. I don't think that's ever good. I don't think that's ever good, because I think it's necessary to decentralize and give a chance and more faith in people at local level. I think they should be encouraged, because they need to be critical and say, yes, we've been passing some laws here that have brought local self-government into a very unenviable situation, that they have less capacity and less opportunities, less budgets to manage their local environments. When we talk about it, and I know in Nis, the council member of the current government criticises the mayor, comes out and says the professor – you know, Nis is in front of bankruptcy because 60% of the budget is being implemented. How will the city function, and how will it succeed in achieving both the urban administration and the people who need to work effectively at attracting investments, which should maintain public utility systems, which need to provide a stable supply of hot water energy, should make gas supplies available, should provide stable electricity supply, provide a communal infrastructure if we have such a condition? We contributed because we were passing some laws where we were constantly reducing the level of transfer towards local self-government to show that the central budget was in excellent condition. What about the local level? Then we say -- you're incompetent, 90% of the mayors, the president of the municipality is incompetent, because he can't do all these shortfall jobs and he can't do that to further disrupt and invest in industrial zones, to separate funds and invest in infrastructure that attracts others. Then we run away from this kind of responsibility and say – then, since it's not there, because we really come into a situation to look often for all of us sad scenes, in which, and this is generally known, opens up a traffic light in Novi Sad and portrays the public as a big investment. Unfortunately, it is the state of local self-government, where the mayor of Leskovec opens the toilet in a public cemetery as a major investment or a red-and-white zebra opens, a pedestrian crossing to Nis and that picture, a public tap. It's humiliating for those people. I understand them in part, but these are examples that I have cited and that are important as a picture in Serbia, because I think it is important to restore confidence and trust in people in local self-government. We have other examples and ways of local self-government affecting their investment environment in their environments. What else have we produced by demeaning local self-government in some way and reducing transfer levels and their sustainability? We've put them in a situation where, uncritically and without criteria, they often raise their taxes to fill their budgets, and that makes it so difficult for businessmen to work, so we had this example, you know, you know, Zaječar, cable factory, which is retroactively charged for the last five, six years green tax and that says – people, so wait, what you do, we won't invest there anymore, we're leaving because we won't tolerate that kind of local self-government relationship to the only person who may be producing some income and who employs people. It's a danger in all of Serbia. The way we will support small and medium-sized enterprises and the way we will have a fair relationship with both foreign and domestic investors, it is this kind of trust in people and local self-government in all Serbia, which will have enough power to create an environment with their authority, their independence, in a fine, balanced competition between cities and municipalities, and among them there are now successful, we make this fight and focus all the budgets of local self-government in a way that most of that budget is supported by local economic development. It is a much more complex story than just one law that will at some point centralize it and say – the advice or agency is a backbone and it is a pillar, and then sits three, five, nine people who meet here in Belgrade and have the best possible picture of what happens on the investment plan in Serbia. I think it's very important that you take advantage of all the potentials that we've talked about, but also some that I haven't mentioned, and that's also the participation of the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, and it's important to involve people from local self-government in these very organs. We've given some amendments in that sense. But it's also important to use some databases that are already in place. You probably know that, well, local self-government and the Permanent Conference have, together with EU institutions, rules the waterfall database on the best projects in the Republic of Serbia and use these existing capacities. So, there's that, you need to integrate it. You don't have to make new institutions at all costs. Yes, we have now abolished two institutions, two agencies – SIEPA and the National Agency for Regional Development. Now we're making two new ones and we reset from zero all the time. I think it's very important to provide some continuity and what was good, and there were good things, and you need to take advantage of these good things. I'll stop here. Thank you. I hope there's still time for later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36866	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36867	I thank you for your specific discussion of individual laws, and I will try to give you as you went, to answer at least most of the questions in turn. First of all, your question about the comments of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I have to point out that there is absolutely no law that can't be the subject of analysis and serious thinking of people who work at the Corruption Agency, but I don't know if you've had the chance to follow in the media, we've had several direct conversations with them in the media as well. They made it very clear, publicly said that they were grateful to the Ministry of Business and the task force that introduced them twice to the solutions, although it was not formally our obligation. It was very important for us to get their opinion, just to shorten the number of problematic things. We've adopted a few things in the process of working and writing the law itself, but somewhere there's a potential possibility for corruption, as the agency sees it, it doesn't mean that it's going to happen and that's one of the things. All our legal solutions go right in that part. So, twenty-four, you said yourself that we agreed to wipe out, just so we'd say very clearly and openly that no goal was, no public hiding, not from anything, just one operational thing, which was not so well accepted in public, which was interpreted differently, and I was very free to say that we would accept it in the day to vote. Article 5 is also deleted, so the whole attitude is further deleted, so we can say it's accepted. Your insinuation that we wrote it with a certain purpose to abolize a particular problem does not stand, because this law does not have retroactive application, so I see no reason for such a kind of comment. And by accepting the amendments, but also by the very basic idea, it was neither a goal nor an attempt to protect anything. Other things about these specific elements, control issues and all that, I explained how the path is going and how the incentives themselves will be defined, that there is no public call, does not prevent or stop control. So also the Commission for State Aid, and in the end what is waiting for us, both the European Commission and the Secretariat of the departments dealing with the control of these things in Brussels. I call as an invitation has been practically open since the moment this law is passed. That's just the difference. There is no need for us to adopt the law now and say – we are announcing an invitation for investors to report. No, the call is constantly open and all these processes that we're talking about will be properly explained in the procedure and implemented in the procedure, as defined by the law. Your ideas are good for women and certain suggestions on how to illustrate them. In the course of the day, we will consult whether to accept it in terms of criteria, or amendments, now to put it in this section or to include together with that and all other elements, which are very important to us, install a regulation that we are going to do, or today's, existing regulation to expand and even more detailedly set up. The regulation will be made public, it is a public document. I said we'd write it, work together with everyone we wrote this law with, and it'll be an integral part of that part. It is very important for us to put all these quantitative elements you talked about in the regulation and to know exactly what four categories of employment are, what are devastated areas, what are the advantages of investors who employ people in devastated areas, by number, by number of investments, by level and all that is important. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I explained it on the board this morning, but I think you left, you weren't there. I have not criticised the work of local self-government, in general, but I have criticised the work of those who have no desire, the idea of dealing with economic issues, because there are mayors and representatives of local self-government who explicitly say it is not their job. That's the problem, because everyone expects the Republic government to solve something. No, we run a republican policy, but the basic part of the job, attracting investment, is at the bar. We're helping these solutions right now, first we're doing one synchronization, mutual coordination, and we're going to help them, the local self-government that has the capacity, works great and can help other self-governments. Secondly, more local self-government can define one organization or one representative and, thirdly, where there are no capacities, we will be ready in any case to help, but the solution is institutionally important to us in terms of giving the obligation that every local self-government has someone to deal with investments. This is very important, because then we can count on an increase in the number of people who will deal exclusively with this job and this problem. I don't think I'd agree with you if we were centralizing. On the contrary, we're introducing these investment offices, as we call them, and we're giving the right to local self-government, or we're stressing its right to local self-government, as much as it has its own resources and a way to boost the matter. Local self-government usually cannot help financially, but it can give land, it can give certain other benefits to the investor to come to work. What's for sure is that people who work in the administration, people who work in local self-government administrations are quick and efficient, and that's what we've solved with those legal solutions. I fully agree with your request, and that is what is the basic principle and our idea of joining NAR and SIEPA into one capable organization, that all that is good, what are databases, what we have through NAED, what we have through the Standing Conference of Cities and municipalities, all that already exists, which is financed by the largest part of donor funds on the side to bind and to have centralized information in one place. To this we will add all those investments that are after bankruptcy, after this privatisation, is what it is. All production plants, however devastated, in any sense, in any physical scale and quality they exist, will be on a list of potential places where some, as such, infrastructure exists, because obviously this factory existed and worked, to be part of our presentation and that we can through the system of attracting investors to interest any domestic, any side and make economic life healthier in such places.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36868	The word has the mandated SPS representative Mr Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36869	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, I will focus more on the proposal for a law on investment, and later on in the rest of the debate, my colleagues will give their views on the other laws that are united. As far as the SPS parliamentary group is concerned, we will vote in favour of all proposed laws. What I would like to say about the Investment Law, which I will focus more on, is Serbia's strategic interests, are reforms of the social and economic system, and it involves the necessary sides and domestic investments that would lead to a halting of the fall and accelerated recovery, which is necessary to achieve strategic objectives. In order to engage foreign capital in our economy, it is necessary to have a well-set regulatory environment that would have a stimulating effect on the motivation of foreign investments and is also important for domestic investors. In order for a country to attract foreign capital and active domestic capital, it is necessary to pre-create a favourable investment climate. The investment climate exists if there are stable conditions for adjudication, that is, if it is possible to achieve a high degree of certainty, and the SPS - SNS government has led to certainty when it comes to the investment climate. There must also be political and social stability, that the state has positive views on domestic and foreign investments, that there is favourable external trade, customs, foreign exchange treatment, that there is reliable and trained labour force, that there is an understanding of the investor's interest in raising projected profitability and reasonable profit. Foreign companies that invest their capital in Serbia and bring about a better deal, as using their channels abroad increases exports. This is all well-known, but we don't think it's enough. There are two reasons. The first is that other countries don't stand with their hands cut, because so far we've had a lot of things on paper from what I mentioned, but we haven't achieved the results we expected. We encouraged investors, but the control failed. We're witnessing it. That's why this law is important. It must bring a system, which is well imagined, to make it more efficient and never again happen to us that the senior managers of the incentive investment system end up on the front pages, but not because of the results achieved, but because of the failures made in that segment. Also, there is no reason for these benefits to apply only to foreign investment, since the activation of domestic unemployed capital by effects is equal to foreign investment, except when it comes to transfers, technology, knowledge. Foreign direct investment is considered a key instrument in the process of transforming the country of those countries that become part of the Country Club, which we already belong to, and that is our strategic definition. These countries, like ours, have a chronic problem with the lack of funds to invest. Stimulating is the only way to significantly improve an undetermined bad situation. Insufficient own accumulation can only be replaced by attracting foreign capital. Otherwise, the country is in a vicious circle, where it is increasingly lagging behind the developed countries. Of course, the good part of these reasons for such a situation is irresponsible borrowing, because now we cannot have more significant state investments. It is precisely because a good part of Serbia's economy cannot be launched without significant investment, we believe that foreign direct investment will also be as significant as they create a base for co-operatives in Serbia. Foreign investment opens up space for domestics and it's not the perpetum of the mobile, which they used to represent, but it's a good way for us all to win. Of course, if we're able to run a system that we set ourselves up. We have experience that we should not work in many areas, so there is no valid reason to repeat mistakes, if the current economic movements in the world, and therefore also in our country, do not go hand in hand to countries in transition, especially those who did not end the privatisation process and which are highly dependent on foreign capital inflows, which is the case with our country, and this cannot be an excuse for not implementing further reforms necessary to improve the economic system. This law is a step in that direction. If we've been late so far, that doesn't mean it was because the concept was bad, but because it wasn't applied in the best way. This is painfully visible through the situation we inherited, and almost all the institutions that promoted investment and foreign investment. In short, the goal of the state should be to create the conditions necessary to attract investments, of course, both domestic and foreign. The state must encourage companies to be as ambitious as possible on the way to achieving a competitive advantage and mixing the state into the market mechanism can help achieve certain short-term advantages, and the full effect can only be seen on the medium term, i.e. in the middle of the day. Let's think about where we are now as a country, as Serbia, where our place in the world is, what we really can and what we wish we could do, that we're not lying or that we're better or that we're worse than we are. Natural resources can create favourable opportunities for development, but their existence does not guarantee success always. What characterizes Serbia is very favourable is its geographical position. However, the big problem is just underdeveloped infrastructure. Serbia is achieving a comparative advantage through a favourable economic and traffic position and a good basis for developing all modes of transport and attracting goods transit. What represents a really big obstacle to economic growth and to increasing productivity, competitiveness in our country, is, as I have already said, poorly developed infrastructure, outdated transport capacity, inadequate organisation of traffic, safety and environmental protection. Serbia is connected to Western European countries and Middle East countries by a simple approach by Corridor E75 and the "Nikola Tesla" international airport, as well as corridors 7 and 10. We need big investments in the modernisation of the railways. Serbia has high-quality human potential, but unemployment is high-level. In all these numbered indicators, we record improvements, but we're still far from what we really want. That is why we are using every available way to give additional strength to reforms and to make the results of the reforms as many citizens as possible. In Serbia, unfortunately, cheap labour is high, and labour productivity is high. The average salary remains the smallest in the region and is around 360 euros. Serbia has a favourable position, as I have already said, but even more favourable when it comes to markets and the size of the domestic market, which is the factor most affecting the inflow of foreign investment. Large export chances are being opened for potential investors through the signed agreements we have on free trade. Serbia needs much more promotion as an attractive location for foreign direct investment. The specific competitive advantages of the state are those that must be the main ones in the promotional messages. The best way to establish links with new potential investors is to acquire foreign investment directly by promotion, because it is a direct approach that is tailored to the investor itself. In order to create a positive climate for investor attraction, certain services and reliefs should be provided. If this seems familiar to you already, especially these four sentences that I have cited, it would be the definition of governments that have avoided reforms. They existed on paper, and we show today how direct contact is being made, how it communicates with investors, how Serbia is being promoted, and how we ultimately achieve what they previously thought is not possible. It is very important for us to change institutions that support investments in Serbia and the development process. It is impossible for such institutions in France and Germany to be the nation's pride, while in Serbia they are the pride of the front pages of the press. It is very important to us that, until we resolve the inherited link between inefficient laws, sublegal acts and non-functional institutions, we come up with ways to overcome these problems. If we wait for everything to change, we'll lose time if we let what was meant to stop us from investing in the past. I say it selectively blocks investment because it was in the past. I'm telling you, we're gonna waste valuable time. It is not our desire for shortcuts and subsidies to be our long-term choice, but surely we will not reject the work and standard of our citizens until the system is fully regulated. The largest inflow of foreign direct investment in Serbia so far, as in other countries in the region, has come through privatisation. As this field narrows down, of course, we're looking for new opportunities. If it comes from the assumption that the macroeconomic environment is not the main problem, as our international partners tell us, then the causes should be sought in late with regulatory reforms. Serbia is still a country that has a difficult legacy in the corruption of bad laws, and this cannot be changed in a year, year and a half without sacrificing the quality of the law and questioning their implementation. In addition, we question where the state should be part of the business system and where to withdraw. Our real balance is not easy to find, and especially find the right balance after years of wrong intervention and failure to intervene in those segments where the power of the state should be demonstrated. The experience of the transition of successful countries has shown that foreign direct investment in brand-new plants, as well as new direct investments by domestic investors, is a key driver of the economy and a driver of economic growth. They actually generate real employment. The new companies are not burdened with the past, have no inherited debts, have been organised exclusively from the beginning to maximise profits, i.e. economic efficiency. Various investments of the type and privatisation of existing companies will not be possible. These remarks also refer to our country, since I have cited examples of some countries that have had these problems. I can say that anyone who doesn't want to see it will certainly mention wisely how much we've invested in subsidisation, but they'll miss showing the effects of these subsidisations. Another biased analysis is that the system that applies successful countries is declared bad, because those who criticise the system today were unable to lead the same and from good business opportunities created good opportunities for corruption and personal wealth. Accordingly, all that leads to the promotion of new investments is the basic leverage of overcoming poverty. Over the past period, the amount of major investment in Serbia has been less domestically than expected, or less than needed to ensure high stability and maintain the rate of economic growth in our country. Obviously, there are still significant obstacles to the creation of new businesses, and obstacles are seen in a greater number of risks to foreign investment in our country that can be divided into political and regulatory risks. The political risk is now on the way to disappear completely, because we have stability and clear directions in which Serbia is moving, regulatory risk assumes a comprehensive institutional reform. There we can't, as I said, achieve rapid results, but we can try to be as fast as possible. We got a lot of luggage, and it's not our fault, and it's our big challenge, and it's our pride to see that Serbia is a better place to live every day. For our parliamentary group by attracting foreign investment and activating domestic ones, it is a task of first-rate importance for Serbia's economy. And the heroes of political life will be the ones who create conditions to create new jobs. We Socialists have always been those who believed in heroes from those who defended freedom at a time when it was difficult, to those who were restoring the country, to those who led Serbia where the civilization place belonged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36870	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) Authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36871	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I'd like to talk about the investment bill. Since I have a lot to say, in short, the law is vague, inexplicable, incomprehensible, intransparent, dramatically incomplete, and therefore logically indeterminate. I just received information from the Secretariat, so there were 198 amendments to only 48 members of the law, and any serious promoter would withdraw this law from the procedure. But since you won't, of course, do, it's up to us to draw as much attention to you as we can in these 20 minutes, what are the bad regulations of the law, and if it's possible for you to accept our amendments. So, Aleksandar Vukic announced in his exposé as early as April 2014 that an investment law would be passed within 100 days. So, by the end of July last year. The law is 15 months behind the prime minister's promise and has been expected to be serious, out of serial, but unfortunately the situation is not so. The law brings absolutely nothing new, nor solves anything, it represents clean marketing and very bad. So far, I've participated in dozens of searches, maybe a hundred laws, but I've never needed an entire registrator for objections and grudges, comments to prepare the law. But it's not just me or my parliamentary group, it's what independent institutions think, for example. The citizens' protector, the Commissioner for Public Information, the Competition Protection Commission, the Anti-Corruption Agency, or the National Coalition for decentralisation, as well as the Economic Kokus of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted six amendments to this law. So let's take it in a row. Therefore, because of the citizens and for them to have a play in this law, the Citizens' Protector pointed out that the proposal for a law on investments that may be incompatible with the protection of personal data contained in Article 42. The Constitution which requires that the collected holding of the processing and use of personality data be governed by law, not by an act of lower legal force. I know that you have already accepted the amendment to Article 24 in advance, so I will not even refer to the opinion of the Commissioner for Public Information who said that this solution is contrary to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning which explicitly provides for the rights laid down in this Act in Article 8. We have the opinion of the Competition Protection Commission, which says, in fact, deeply concerned about certain proposed legal solutions and also suggests that the adoption of this law without appropriate changes in the consequences would have a number of negative effects that would endanger not only the implementation of the law, but the indirect and interests of the investors themselves. So, very bad marketing. Because, as a rule, the law is passed to speed up investment, and you, according to the Competition Protection Commission, are passing a law that would endanger the interests of the investors themselves. We have received an opinion on the assessment of the risk of corruption in the provisions of the Law on Investments of the Anti-Corruption Agency on 10 pages. In all the years I've been a MP, I haven't seen this much criticism for one law by the Anti-Corruption Agency. They find that the proposed solution contains the shortcomings and risks of corruption that need to be removed, in particular the risks of corruption relating to the following issues. The lack of provisions on how to exercise individual competences and tasks of the Council for Economic Development of the Development Agency, the lack of precise conditions and criteria for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Development Agency, i.e. the selection of the Director of this Agency, shall leave it exclusively to the Government to act on the requirements for the provision of investment information. Letting the Government and the Minister in charge of affairs make it possible for them to identify certain issues closer to the sublaws, although it is necessary to regulate these issues in more detail by legal provisions, and not sufficiently specific duties of the Authority. They point to a series of inaccuracies, as I said the law is very imprecise, what does it mean from the order of the business community? We made a great effort to find out what was in our legal system and where it was defined what the business community meant and we found it, it was in the law on joint work of the SFRY that was brought in 1976. So, after that law, no one ever is, which introduces Serbia's legal system, the notion of a business community. Also, the Anti-Corruption Agency is in a position for the minister to set criteria and criteria for professional training and working experience that candidates for members of the Development Agency's Management Board must meet. We have the Law on Public Agencys and it is absolutely unnecessary to derivate this law, namely to determine or adopt provisions that do not comply with the existing law. Also, the Anti-Corruption Agency says the formulation without delay in Article 6 is not precise enough, leaving room for different applications in practice. In Article 9, it contests the meaning of the term – other measures with similar facts. In Article 11, it is inadmissible to encourage investment through the granting of state aid without publication of a public call. Article 12 relating to the criteria on which investment is determined is intended to be, as the minister listed, six, not to repeat them, but the Anti-Corruption Agency says quantitative elements, i.e. percentages or numbers, must be determined. for criteria five and six, to specify the high value formulations, or to add high values and credibility, i.e., to cover both sources of funds. Then from member to member, here is Article 13 that regulates investment incentives is prescribed that investors can exercise the right to different investment incentives in accordance with the regulations governing state aid, tax incentives, reliefs, exemption from taxis, etc., but, undefined by law, everything is missed by the Minister's will to prescribe how he will do so, and simply subject to corruption. They say it is necessary to submit precise conditions and criteria for the allocation of incentives to investors from the local self-government unit, i.e. the Autonomous province, and literally from members to members, we also come to Article 23, where it is challenged to the Serbian Development Agency that it can take measures in accordance with this law, so what measures? Do these measures bring down the legal system and legal order of the Republic of Serbia? Because if we have a situation for the Ministry to oversee work, for example, Local self-government, why is it introduced by a parallel institution that the Development Agency can monitor and take some measures that are not defined in accordance with this law at all? There is also the concept of a complaint, which does not exist in our legal system again, without a defined procedure, legal medicines in our legal system are complaints, complaints and complaints, but for the complaint our legal system does not know, and even less about the complaint for which no procedure is defined, how it is filed and how it is addressed, i.e. how he solves himself in that complaint and who solves it. A mirror or a picture of this law is a member of the 8th, and I'm, like, really stopping to try to figure out what the bill promoter was going to say. Therefore, an investor for payment to abroad allowed by a law governing foreign exchange operations can buy foreign currency in the foreign exchange market in the Republic of Serbia. What law isn't allowed to do so at the moment? Why is it necessary to introduce this by law on investment, if absolutely possible, allowed, permitted, existing laws in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia? I've just analyzed this article has only one position, above which is even the title and says – freedom of payment to abroad, and I don't know why this member is standing here, if you can answer me. I don't know what it's for, or what it's going to do, or what it's going to do. what this new option or convenience allows which is already not permitted and permitted. Some support entities that are state authorities and bodies have also been defined, which are state authorities and bodies with already defined competences, and in those responsibilities they have to act, e.g. At the request of the investor, they issue building permits, etc. Thus, by being defined as support entities, there is absolutely no new jurisdiction or possibility of reacting otherwise or helping to achieve or implement an investment. So, if you can answer me, what's the definition that some state bodies and bodies with defined powers are designated as support entities. So what helps foreign investors, and that they will do better and faster if they already have these state bodies defined as support entities. The Council for Economic Development, which consists of ministers and in the jurisdiction of the Council, is precisely what the Ministry Act defined as the jurisdiction of these ministries. We simply overlooked that advice to be deleted, i.e. that it doesn't exist because there's no need to exist. So if each of the ministers who are in this council, together with this representative of the business community from the 1976 SFRY, are doing their job, why is it necessary for us to have a council on economic development and to have some new costs, of course this council must be ambushed, they must also have some administration that will follow them, and let's say we have some administration in ministries etc., it's absolutely unclear what the purpose of this council is. What's also important is who's responsible for the bad results of the new new body, but for example, advice on economic development. Who's going to control the work of the economic development council? So we have a continuation of one tendency to form some quasi state bodies for the jobs that should be done by the government and the ministries. Also, the continued tendency to transfer certain powers to the PKK should be exercised by some state authorities, since the PKK is one interesting association. Here, first of all, I mean when it comes to the draft law on contractual financial restructuring, but since I won't have enough time, my colleagues will talk about it. It also continues with the adoption of laws that exclude transparency in work. I've got a procedure again without a public call. And, in the end, you predict hiring with a membership book, I suppose, SNS. Therefore, SIEPA is abolished, the Agency for Equal Regional Development is abolished, all contracts from those agencies are taken over and taken over from them, except for employees. It's not exactly how the employees, whether the severances are left out of work, but by what the law says, and you, Minister, if you have some secret, which we don't know or didn't write here, we could only be judged based on what it says here. We conclude that in this agency or as you call it RAS, only those who have a SNS membership card will work in the spirit of party employment whose witnesses we have witnessed for months and years. Also, we say that this board of directors will be joined by people who are similar to the minister, is that right, because the minister proposes three board members from his ministry, maybe the candidates are ahead of us, and we still don't know that, so it would be nice to introduce them to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36872	Mr. Senic, I ask you to pay a little more respects to the members of the government. I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36873	I didn't say anything wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36874	Well, I'd like you to look at it later and get into what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36875	Just don't take my time and you talk as much as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36876	And that's what I'm gonna decide, not you. I would ask you to look at it afterwards and read what you said, to see that you did not have to explain the bill in such a way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36877	All right, just give me back these minutes. Since I'm distracted by the chairman, I only have one minute left. I don't understand why the Law on the Agreement on Financial Restructure is delegated, but the existing Law on Intervention in Dispute Resolution? So, if we already have on the Justice Ministry website, the Mediator's Register, why are new intermediaries being introduced at the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, except, here, now colleagues are going to rebel again unless they need to have a SNS membership card and thus be similar to that for the resolution of disputes to be conducted or to resolve restructuring, the financial restructuring that is being conducted, to be in front of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36878	Thank you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. Mr. Grandmother, I'm going to... (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: The mention of SNS three times. ) Yes, Mr. Babic, but you know very well that it is an authorised representative and that he can get his word in this case, but before that comes the minister, so we'll see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36879	I was a little confused about your exposure, I couldn't just catch what concrete objections are, and what is the political part, because in some specific cases you're advocating the advantage of agencies, commissions and all of those bodies that are outside the government. In the second part, you're criticizing the establishment of the Council and its work again, and I didn't understand whether it was an emergency and whether it was actually a wish that virtually the ministries and ministers didn't exist, so that then the commissions and agencies were running the state, and then I don't know how we're going to have the second part. If it's all right, what you listed as a problem to exclude yourself from the hands of the Minister and the Ministry, then the question is, what are we serving? (Alexander Senic, from the post: You should work...) ) On the other hand, I don't know if you were present when I explained the law, but I will remind you that all of the largest, most significant business associations in the country from our Chamber of Commerce to small associations, to large associations, are gathering foreign businessmen together with NAED with the World Bank and other economic life actors in Serbia supported this law and we have accepted a significant number of amendments which we have only profiled or significantly and accurately defined in relation to what is the original thing. There is no key thing that has been changed, except for Article 24 where we have jointly accepted that the position, or that the Government should be excluded as a central focal point. You mentioned it as a negative example and six amendments to the economic cocus, which I also announced that all six amendments to the economic cocuss of this assembly were accepted. On the board of directors and at all the work of the Serbian Development Agency, it will work under the Agency's Law, there it is very clear and precisely defined how they are made, how boards and all other conditions are formed, so that we cannot prescribe any additional things. Also, RAS, obviously we didn't get along well, so I'd like to explain it to you so it won't be a problem. The RAS does not take over from the departments the tasks of jurisdiction and supervision, no, the RAS suggests that if they have a problem with a certain administrative procedure, that what is in the minister's jurisdiction, they take over the jurisdiction, or take over the surveillance process, and that they solve what was to be addressed by an urgent procedure. As far as the Council itself is established by the government, the government and controls it, there is absolutely control, and you control the government, so you have the right to insight all things. As far as your question is concerned, how and how did the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia find itself in law? Well, as far as I know in 2011, you were in power. (Alexander Senic, from the place: I never did.) I don't mean you personally, but your party to whom you belong. In 2011, a law on a financial restructuring agreement was adopted, where the institutional factor of the restructuring process was just named the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. So nothing new in that sense we introduced today compared to what it was four years ago, only in that part. To agree once again on a very important matter, we do not in any way rule out the Law on possession, dispute resolution precisely with certain amendments made in this law now in which we propose, agreeing this law with the Law on Intermediation in Dispute Resolution. Also, within the Council, I've now remembered the things you've also observed. The Council does not have any additional payments, obligations or any financial negative impact on the budget itself because of operational tasks done by the Serbian Development Agency, and ministers are already doing their jobs, but it is one body that needs to coordinate and co-ordinate precisely in the public process, a better and more serious and efficient implementation of all RS investment jobs. So, in that sense, I don't understand your observation that the Council includes a representative of the business community, but the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is a member of the Council by law. There's no such thing as a definition, and you've lagged with me, or you've made a point that you couldn't find it in the law. I don't know what you're looking for when there's no such thing. So, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is Serbia's Chamber of Commerce. (Alexander Senic, from the post: Two members of the board of directors...) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36880	Please, Mr. Senic, don't throw away the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36881	In Serbia's Development Agency, there are two board members, not the Council for... (Alexander Senic, from the place: You did not listen. We didn't get along then. All right, ask anyone from the Association how they define the business community, so you'll be perfectly clear. The fact that there are no other laws, it is not against the law to describe here as a broad field of representatives to be involved. I think you should have commended it as an intensities to include different associations and representatives of the economy in regulatory bodies within the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36882	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Babico, you can have your word because the authorised representative is not in the O.R. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Replica two minutes, mentioning multiple SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36883	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think Mr. Senic is the last man in this room who should say anything at all and criticise that party membership is a condition for certain positions and the last one to be criticised and to say that SNS is a party-stricken party. Here, I now publicly invite him, on what basis did the quality other than political belonging then DS bring him to the post of chairman of the board of directors of Topionica and the refinement of copper in Bor? Based on what? The acquaintances? Friendship? Working in a mine? Of what? Professionality? Of what? On the other hand, when he speaks and criticises the party's acuity of the SNS, can he say where he is on the board of directors? Let him say until when was he president of the board of directors of the refinery and the copper smelter? In 2012, The SNS has taken the responsibility of leading this country. Where was Mr. Senic until a month or two ago? Where is he now? How much money did he get in the name of membership in these boards of directors and supervisors? Now a man like that will say, "Well, you've been scarred there, what you will do with these people, you will now be replacing some people, you know, to you is a political priority. And what political membership was the priority when he was given the post of chairman of the Control Board of "Topion and Copper Refination"? What political acuity took it both in 2012 and 2013 and in 2014 and 2015? That's why I think Mr. Senic is the last person in this room to be able to talk about these topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36884	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Senic, the replica, mentioning the name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36885	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to remind Mr. Secretary that he didn't answer me for Article 8. - what do you get by...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36886	Mr. Senic, you've got a line on Mr. Babic's exposure, so you can't argue with the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36887	All right. Thank you. In 2010, when I became chairman of the Management Board of the "Topion and Copper Refination", Bor, I became that because there was a big investment, the biggest one, and that was what your ministers spoke together, and the prime minister and as a man who is highly professional, extremely professional and I work at the Faculty of Civil Engineering and I teach an object called Project Management in Construction, I was sent there to build a smelter. The fact that you didn't replace me when you came to power in 2012, even though I had twice, had evidence, asked you to replace me, because it's not right for me to sit there, is that you didn't have an adequate man to set up for you to lead and end your investments. At the moment I finished my investment and when the melting room was put into operation and when it didn't need to be done anymore, with a miserable fee, I was, of course, replaced and thank you for replacing me, but I did my job until the last moment honorably and I think I did a great thing for our country. No matter who he was or who he was or who he was or who he was, this melting room is a vessel of economic development in eastern Serbia. And let Mr. Minister say, since he was in a certain period of time a minister while I was chairman of the board of directors of the "Top and Copper Refination" Bor, does he have a single objection to my work while I was performing that duty? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36888	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Babic, a replica, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36889	I'm glad that every word I've ever said has been confirmed, except for what that miserable compensation is. I would prefer to hear the nominal amount, but no problem, it is under the Law on the availability of information of public importance, we will find out how miserable it is for Mr Senic, and of which one average family in Serbia lives for many years from that miserable compensation. I respect young people very much. Not so long ago, I belonged to young people, and perhaps I have the best relationship with young people in both our society and my party, but when it was appointed president of the board of directors, Mr. Senic was 32 years old. I don't know why it became so irreplaceable when it was 32 years old, and what are scientific papers? Well, that he won the Nobel Prize when he was 32 years old, so they qualified him as the only and irreplaceable one who built the Refinery. What did he do when he was 32? I know that many young people at the age of 32 have made companies worth several billion dollars and euros in the world frameworks of a known company, but this does not stand in the CV of Mr. Senic, except then membership in DS, friendship, acquaintance with whom. Even if it was all that way, even if it was irreplaceable, why should it honor SNS any political acuity if we gave it a chance and told him – okay, you came here politically, you started to work, keep working...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36890	I'm asking Mr. Markovic not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36891	Then such a man honors us with political acuity, and the way he thinks about the regime he belonged to and to which Mr. Senić belongs is exactly that – here, there's no point in me being there because I think in a different way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36892	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36893	You know, we don't think that way and that's why we're proud, Mr. Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36894	Thank you. We're gonna have to cover this up. It was a circle of replicas. The word is from the MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, the authorised representative of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36895	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is clearly seen as going through local elections, and then the topics of the Investment Investment Law, the decentralisation of local self-government, women, transparency, the fight against corruption are also as important topics in this set of laws. What should be said to those who do not know is that this law is written on the basis of truly relevant publications at the world level, which have been accepted by international financial institutions, such as the 2010 investment law reform by the World Bank and institutions at international level and on certain projects that the World Bank has been working on in Serbia, which are related to the analysis of the purpose of the existence of institutions that are relevant to the area of functioning not only of the Ministry of Economy, but of the economy at all. Thus, no such solution was memorized. Secondly, the law, according to the lawyers, has started to cook since January of this year, and is now October. It was time enough for all those who have something to say about this law to show through a certain kind of their proposals, recommendations and what is interesting, it is that representatives of the former regime, however many parties they have here in parliament, and democratic orientations, simply refer to certain memos that independent institutions have given, but interpreting in their own way. So he keeps trying to put Mr. Sabic and Mr. Sasa Jankovic in a counter-dimensional situation, in conflict with certain legal solutions, which does not stand. I will present it to you in a certain way, because I have a letter as chairman of the Committee, which was received by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, a certain letter from the Citizens' Protector, Mr. Saša Jankovic, who says, since he is the only one relevant in terms of protecting the rights of citizens and other institutions who do not have the right to submit certain amendments individually, he says: "Because I am not authorized to conduct politics in any area, nor in the area of investment, I cannot propose amendments that would specifically do the content of the record, which the bill is now merely mentioned, and their regulation leaves to sublaws. I ask you to do everything you can to remove these shortcomings later, as soon as necessary, to bring certain positive effects relating to the law," which you did as a minister before the law entered the harvest. So this controversial member I see as one technical change shows that essentially those who have read this law have not understood the essence of this law at all. So far, there has been no law on subsidy policy. There were certain rules, amendments and additions, 10 amendments and additions since 2006. So there was no record, there was no criterion based on which they were shared. When the elections came, certain presidents of the municipalities received subsidies and opened certain companies, just for the sake of certain local officials being really great mayors and presidents of the municipalities, and that was the only way that it worked until 2012. Why did a 12% subsidy drop occur? That's what needs to be answered now. Because you have one document signed by Mr Tadic, who was then president of the DS, and President Tadic spoke about the 2010 Sustainable Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which was signed by Mr Tadic, which was based not only on the opinions of certain ministries, but also on local self-government, which says that foreign direct investments were based on sales of Telecom and were based on the sale of certain "Deleza" companies and not on the actual situation of things. It was really given to the third side of this strategy and anyone can read it. Therefore, if we say that 12% fell from these foreign direct investments and that the subsidies themselves fell, that means that we were doing something at the time. As the SNS and as the Government, which has the prime minister, shows that during that time we have implemented a reform of the economic environment and of the business environment, to make it predictable, that we have passed many laws that contribute to the consolidation of public finances, because based on subsidies and budget giving, no one knew where the money was going. When we talk at all about the fight against corruption and the analysis of points that can be potential risks to corruption itself, then it should be said that corruption was everywhere because there was no law. So, what do we have now? Now we have a law that precisely defines steps in the investment process. We have four levels. First we have local self-government, where some investment teams sit, write some investment programs. Secondly, I say, everyone likes to talk about this ecology, environmental protection, green technologies, so the condition of every investment programme, in every financial institution, starts from a bank commercial to an EBRD, to an IMF, is a strategic change in environmental impact. So, you can't have any jobs, you can't open a company, if you don't get permission from a ministry that covers environmental protection, you can't get permission to work if you don't solve the problems of green technologies. So let's talk about investment, let's talk about how we've arranged the system and started discipline when we're talking about the issue of domestic and foreign investors, that they have a simple starting phase where they're just going to talk about opening new jobs. If they first report to local self-government, then they do or report directly to the Serbian Development Agency. They just have to work together, because every facility, every factory opens up in some local self-government. There's no way you can hide something, because there's always talk here about how someone's trying to hide something. If local self-government publishes an investment programme on the site in a completely transparent way, if the RAS publishes on its site that companies negotiate for certain factories and locations, if it comes to the economic council or the Council of Economic Development, in which not only ministers, but also the Chamber of Commerce, then the general public in the economy is informed by companies, which are companies that want to create new jobs. Finally, when you prepare all this for the Serbian government, as one proposal, it is absolutely impossible for the government in a certain way not to make a positive decision, if all these steps have been fully moved in an adequate and transparent manner. So when we talk about transparency, this idea of not having enough transparency falls into the water. When we talk about fighting corruption, and corruption turns out there, you know, when you have more transparency. We want to talk about decentralisation of local self-government now? Well, local self-government is in the interest of having a system of arrangements with investors like this. Why? Because they're being attacked by investors. They don't know who to turn to, then the presidents of the municipality have contact with certain institutions and don't know what procedures they are. In doing so, some have objective, subjective problems. So now you're making it easier for them, and you're opening up space for these legal solutions to actually come to these new jobs and really start dealing with it, when we're talking about investors at all. Unfortunately, when we talk about the idea of a certain rationalization of the economy in general in a certain way, we are now talking about a whole new concept. Why? Because this law, which we now have a proposal, means it is not made up by Serbia, is not invented by the Ministry of Economy, but there are some rules of business in European countries, and we strive to move towards European integration, we seek to become that competitive market. Therefore, we must also comply with EU-declarated standards. Thus, we are showing here that we are really becoming a democratic society, and when we talk in general about correspondence and the Commission for the Protection of Competition. I will tell you, Minister, in the end that, given Article 151. Rules and Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work, regardless of the Commission's competence in the work of the Assembly and the Committee on Economic Affairs, it is not in the practical position to submit certain amendments directly. That is why, as chairman of the Committee, my smallness and Mr Babic, as chairman of the Committee on Administrative Affairs, as MPs, we have submitted all these amendments, which are three amendments, which we have your word that you will accept, for the simple reason that the Commission is afraid to enter into their field of work. They have certain obligations towards the EU, which must report on how they behave in general, or what they do and what mechanisms they use to prevent all types of monopoly. Since your focus wasn't at all on the work of the Commission and you simply didn't even think about getting into their work, you simply showed that accepting these amendments is not a problem at all. So, we are thus showing that in today's debate, all those who have had certain objections and simply tried to reject this law in an extremely immoral way, because they tried to give some personal promotions to themselves in the sense that this law was completely devastated, unaccounted for and there is no way at all to implement it, shows one great ignorance, because on the basis of the most professional practice of people dealing with this topic, indeed throughout their lives, you have essentially done one really best proposal that has been assessed by all associations and domestic and foreign investors as a law that will give a whole new face of Serbia on the market of goods and services, so I don't think you should really pay attention to the discussions that you had before, which have tried to minimize your work. What's important to say is that they amend and supplement the Law on the Agency's licensing of bankruptcy managers shows one proposal that the Centre for bankruptcy, which you transfer to this Agency for Privatisation, shows that we need to complete the privatisation process. As you complete the privatisation process, the Privatisation Agency will reduce its size. The agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers will have more and more work to do, but that is what is waiting for us and what we have committed to the EU. Simply, these changes and additions are placed in a completely acceptable way. In the end, we have an agreement on financial restructuring, where for the first time you are equating bankruptcy with private and social companies. Secondly, you are trying to relieve business, not just business entities, but entrepreneurs, and you are simply showing that you want this domestic economy in a certain way to disburse. So, by 2012, really, all the economic operators were choking in debt, they were borrowing in an extremely impossible way, because it was the only way to function in this system and this market. Obviously, there was no legal regulation. Those who should have passed these laws didn't do it. Now the footage is that they invent a variety of ways that these laws don't work, because they are aware that when the market starts to work, how foreign direct investments come, they simply won't be politically current, because they were simply unable to do so at the time, when they could, they didn't. We thank you for the adoption of all these amendments to the Economic Cocus, since we are both presidents of the Committee, and Mr Babic and I, members of the Cokus and in the day to vote the SNS will support this proposal in full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36896	We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36897	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when the public finances of a country are in a very difficult situation, not to mention at the edge of the collapse we were on, then a country that wants to be serious and responsible must implement the harsh measures that will try to solve the problem. The strict fiscal consolidation measures that the government of the Republic of Serbia is applying are, I would say, the only possible response at this time to this difficult situation that we are in. However, it is only the first step. The next steps we need to apply are, in fact, aimed at strengthening economic activity, i.e. at adopting and implementing measures that will enable the private sector, which in these situations is most often found itself in a very difficult situation, to get on its feet and to stop thinking, which is very often happening, about survival, or to start thinking about growth and development. Only such a mix of measures that the state brings, which is a mix on one side of restrictive measures, and on the other hand stimulating measures, can create conditions for the state to find its growth and development path. I would say that these three laws we are talking about today are precisely aimed at achieving the long-term goal we have ahead of us, which is the goal of the growth and development of the Republic of Serbia. Since my colleague, Professor Besarovic, spoke about the Law on Investments very comprehensively and in the limited time at my disposal, I will talk about the remaining two, no less important laws, the Law on agreeable financial restructuring and amendments and additions to the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. As I have already said, Serbia's very poor public finances position has been mirrored in previous years and in the business of the private sector, which characterizes uncertainty in the collection of claims and a rather high degree of liquidity, and in the extreme truth and a large number of blocked accounts. It is very worrying that the data we received from the National Bank of Serbia, according to which in 2015, when we look at the total mass, not the number of enterprises, but the total mass of funds that have been blocked, we see that as much as 85% of these funds have been blocked for more than a year, and that more than a third and almost 35% of the funds have been blocked for more than three years. The financial position of Serbian companies has been mirrored, of course, continues to be repainted, i.e. affecting their ability, and I would say rather their inability to serve their own credit obligations. The high level of problematic loans is not, however, a problem Serbia has been facing since yesterday, a problem that has been going on for many years and which, unfortunately, has a very pronounced trend of growth. That is why the 2011 legislator, by adopting the Law on the Contracting Financial Restructuring of Business Entities, tried to create a legal framework that would solve these problems. However, the trend in uncharging loans continued to be as it was until then, and so we have in 2012 that the share of problematic loans in total loans is 18.6%, in 2013, 21.4%, and in 2014 as much as 23%. If we only look at the economy sector, these data are even more devastating, because in the economy, the percentage of non-refundable loans is 27.3%. If we add to this information that, apart from relative values and absolute values, we have a growth of non-refundable loans, and on the other hand, we have reduced credit activity in these absolute values, then it is clear that the 2011 law has not met expectations or, let's say, that the milder I express, did not bring the expected results, or proved insufficiently applicable, I would say ineffective and, worst of all, very poorly used in practice. That is why in 2013 the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, it seems to me that just you, ministers, were at the head of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, in collaboration with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, launched a comprehensive analysis of the legal framework that regulates the area of agreed financial restructuring and, of course, all of those practices that we had until then, or all of the experiences we had from previous practices. The result of that almost two-year analysis was that we obviously have to amend the law, and therefore the recommendation that left the Serbian Chamber of Commerce was accepted by the Ministry of Economy. The economy ministry has formed a working group that is in co-operation with, I think it is also very important to say, consultants of the international financial corporation have just begun to work on making changes and additions to the law. The number of amendments and additions practically forced the legislator to come up with a new law, not with amendments and additions, so that it cannot be said that the previous law was so bad, that nothing in the previous law was inherited in this law, or that it was completely amended by law. However, this law today, which is on the agenda, brings certain improvements to the current regulation. Among the many improvements that exist, I would single out a few. One thing is that all those insufficiently precise solutions that existed in the previous law of these amendments are further specified in the new law. As an example, I would set out an insufficient separation, i.e. a vague separation between the contractual financial restructuring and bankruptcy that was present in the previous legislative solution, which caused some confusion in the application of the contractual financial restructuring. The second thing that I think is very important is that certain solutions in practice in the previous law have proved too rigid, and there was a need to make new solutions that would be far more flexible. One example of such a thing would be a new contract, i.e. a new form of contract, i.e. the lack of form of contract between creditors and debtors, which would practically encourage creditors and debtors to enter into this relationship on time, i.e. practically one medicine treated at its earliest stage, such as a financial restructuring agreement, to resort to as many cases as possible, which was, among other things, because the form was too rigid and too strict. The next thing that is very important, is that the extended powers of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which has appeared before as a mediator in this process, are as much as it will now control all these contracts, therefore, of course, make recommendations for improving procedures, perform statistical data processing, thus getting new information again, and on which we will be able to increase the quality of these procedures. So when we add up all these good solutions from the previous law, and we don't argue that there have been, improved solutions from that law and, of course, the new solutions that this law makes, then I think we can say that a single framework is being created based on which we can expect it to act by stimulating the recovery and consolidation of these companies that are obviously in serious financial difficulties, as well as, of course, reducing the number of problematic loans. So, in one word, we want to stimulate businesses, of course, it was the intensity and the previous law, but it obviously didn't show up well enough in practice, to stimulate them to, under the circumstances, start treating patients at the stage in which this treatment has the chance of having good results, before we are forced to resort to more aggressive methods, such as bankruptcy and bankruptcy. Speaking of bankruptcy, I have to say that the bankruptcy regulation of economic operators has generated, I think, a kind of dualism, i.e. confusion in application and ineffectiveness in application, which has been observed in competent entities to conduct bankruptcy proceedings. So, while on the one hand we had an Agency to license bankruptcy managers as someone who was conducting bankruptcy over...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36898	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36899	It's the ninth minute, and I have 12 minutes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36900	Yes, but you don't, your colleague spent three minutes, taken from the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36901	She only talked for a minute longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36902	She overstepped for over 20 minutes and plus minutes later. Please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36903	I can only say that the SDPS parliamentary group will, of course, support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36904	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36905	Minister Sertic, who planted this law on you? I don't doubt your good intentions, but a little bit, a little bit, so bring something that's gonna make someone throw you out again, like the Prime Minister last time. The law has a nice name, but I think it could be better translated as a law on the legalisation of future corruption and the affirmation of future corruption, because it is the only way to gather all the opinions of relevant institutions in this country that have given their position on this bill and the transparent Serbia and Frankfurt and the Commissioner for Information and the Commission for Competition Protection, various investment advisers, and many of the local self-government that you represent without any need as the culprits for the situation in Serbia's investment. They can't influence it at all. It's the job of the state, especially when the state is hypercentralized, like this one is ours. Hiding behind the European Union, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and some other institutions is already known here, and then it turns out they did not read well as a question of Belgrade-Pristina or you, Serbia-Kosovo. So don't repeat it, I want you to be a successful minister, because economy is the most important part of a country's life and I say it completely without the rest. Why is this so bad? Because you create these conditions for mass corruption and for it to be concentrated in one place. This is a kind of "lex specialis" again. That's not what you called him, but it's basically what it is. What's particularly wrong with him? We have, of course, given the 58 amendments to this bill, but we have no desire to fix it, because there is no way to fix it, but to convince you to withdraw it yourself, to almost all members, not to all, but to 30 members, we have submitted the amendments. It is very unusual in the modern economy, the market economy, anywhere in the world that the size of the investment creates a different attitude of the state towards that investment. Is she small or big? Whether it's local or national, it doesn't exist anywhere in the normal world. It's all important. Each of them was important to hire five people, 10,000 people. Arbitration under Article 11, Article 3, that state aid is given without a public call, is corruption. Forming an investment support entity. To inform Serbian citizens who are investment support entities, it is the Council for Economic Development. Who's in this Council for Economic Development? It's one mistake that goes on right now, to deal with it a little bit, that's Article 25 says – Council for Economic Development. The council consists of a minister, a finance minister, a labour and employment minister, President Komor and a director of Serbia's Development Agency. Who is this first minister, where only the minister writes? In the next position, it says -- the president of the Council is the minister responsible for business affairs. Well, he's not in the band. How the president of a body could be someone who isn't in that system. In the reasons for the adoption of the law, you said well in one part, he said – it was found that the positive effects of coordination of the work of agencies and programmes and projects they implement can be achieved by shutting down and setting up a new agency. That's genius. I don't believe that you could have thought of this yourself and these smart ladies next to you, I don't think they are. That's someone else's writing, so I'd like you to announce who wrote this as an unspeakable hand. No investment since this combination of government, I mean SNS and SPS. It's very nice when some of the SPS defend themselves that they have nothing to do with privatisations. Well, you weren't in power just while I was prime minister, all the time and one better than me, otherwise all the time, before and after you had...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36906	Please, Mr. Zivkovic, don't speak to the MPs personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36907	Please don't interrupt me, if you don't understand anything, I can explain it later. I'm talking about the subject. Therefore, withdraw this law, do not participate in the creation of a law on the legalisation of corruption that was at the "Berograda on Water", "Etihada", JAT, NIS and many other examples. You create through the Council a clan for corruption, not something that will help.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36908	Thank you. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. ) All right, Mr. Jovanovic, but you have to wait for the order. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Sertice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36909	Thank you. Here, I'll just answer the first question. I think it'll be clear enough, everything else is a political right for everyone to criticise and to express their opinion in which direction they should go. I am the minister today, I answer, I defend today and seek the support of the MPs for the law we have given. And whoever planted this law on me, here I accept and admit that the main culprit of investment law reform is therefore, the World Bank document made in 2010 for governments that manage investment procedures in ten chapters on 136 pages, precisely explained which and how investment laws in countries should function, in order to have this best world practice. I'm happy to give you a copy, just so you know what world practice is, how it works in the world, why certain countries are successful, how Singapore made its economic boom, how Ireland did it, and for us, it is a desire to have the goal and comparison of the best countries in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36910	Thank you. Replica, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36911	Thank you, Vice President. Indeed, the best indicator of the government in the speaker mentioned by the Socialist Party of Serbia is the fact that it is fortunate that the Socialist Party of Serbia was not in power during that period, because it is the period of adoption of the scandalous Privatisation Act. A law that generated all the problems and destroying the economy, taking economic operators to their deaths and leaving them on the street to dozens and hundreds of thousands of unemployed people. A time in which the least important thing was what was done in privatisation. The times in which those who entered the privatisation process, not to mention bankruptcy, carried everything they could take from this troubled country, where the naked walls in the halls, in factories, where literally social cases remained and where the economy of the Republic of Serbia was brought to ruin. This is the period when the Socialist Party of Serbia, on our great happiness, was not in power, on our great happiness on October 5th, made it possible for us not to be in power with such a government and to our great happiness that is an indicator of what this government in which the Socialist Party of Serbia is now participating, is working to turn exactly what has been turned into an economic cemetery into an economic ambience of investment investments that we are sure will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36912	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) The word has a People's MP... Mr. Zivkovic, please wait for the order and then I'll decide if you have a right to the replica. MP Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36913	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I have this document called investment legal reform. I think it's a very large document, very high-quality with one small grudge. Why is there no mention of how I have invested in vineyards in this document that I have really studied in the preceding days, or in the preceding weeks? How this investment in vineyards is done in a transparent way, then it becomes known only after nine years. When this investment and investment in the vineyard is in a magical way very transparent after a few laps, I turn you, me, into apartments on Vrakar. I think we're going to have to tell the World Bank one, of course, I'm saying this in a very funny way, we're going to send a memo, we're going to have to say that that's how it's done, how it's done in the Serbian economy, where more than 500,000 euros have been burned, and how it's coming from investment to housing. As it turns from business to living space and old timers, so the only regret I have on this document is that it did not foresee this transparent investment after nine years in the vineyards in Fruszko Gora in Serbian fashion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36914	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Zivkovic, you want a replica of the exhibit. Please, Mr. Jovanovic's exposure? Did you mention Mr. Zivkovic? Did you mention the New Party? I don't see any basis. Mr. Zivkovic, in this case, I've assessed from your presentation that he has a basis for replication of both the SPS and the SNS. From their presentations, I couldn't get the basis for your replica, unless you recognize yourself in the vineyards, but I still can't give you... Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36915	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to warn my fellow farmer on the agenda is the Investment Act, not the lie law, so it would be good to stick to the truth. We're here as some kind of court and we need to determine what's true, what's investment and what's lying. If anyone claims this is corruption, they've found someone to claim that this law is legal corruption. Someone who sold DiNi DIV at the time of the worst police terror. Therefore, the privatisation process was mostly carried out during the police torture when the public and the press were free to write as ordered. When they had to read as they were written. It was an ideal time for privatisations, which there was no doubt that they were corrupt. Thus, the assessment of the privatisation adviser was for DIN and DIV, it seems to me 1.2 billion euros, and it seems to me 400 to 500m euros, with the signing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by my fellow farmer, obliged that a certain number of years no one else in Serbia has the right to make cigarettes. Well, I asked myself and then I asked myself, leaving the government's support, did they sell the factory or the smokers? If someone sells both cigarettes factories and writes in the contract during "Sablje" that nobody else has the right to sell cigarettes for a certain number of years, he also sold the monopoly. So it was ideal for corruption. If someone was a member of the federal government, the interior minister, sold the building at the mouth, by publishing a competition without a commission in June for 30 days, it was not there. Who ran the contest? You don't know. The D.A. has given consent to one contract, but the contract is not signed. Some companies participated in the competition, and no contract was signed with those companies. The contest was in June, and a contract was signed in December with a company that was not registered at all in June when the competition lasted. A contract was signed with an unregistered firm during the competition, something similar to a vineyard. You rent the land in December, November 2007, and plant the vineyard in March and April 2007 on these parcels. Almost impossible. That was only possible during that government. The contract that was signed for the CK building, where some of the party's financial directors of the former regime were also passing, was signed with a company that was registered only in December and could not participate in the competition in June. But, behold, the contract signed did not correspond with the agreement given by the Federal Directorate, or the Federal Attorney General, which was warned by the Federal Government, whose member, that is, the interior minister, the minister of crime and corruption, was my fellow farmer. For a wonderful miracle, we've heard about legal corruption today. It is likely that there is an objection that there is no lawless corruption, as it was in 2003 during the police torture, when both cigarette factories in Serbia, which had a monopoly and for which it received far less than 50% of the money, for which privatisation advisers assumed we could get it. Let's move on, as my colleague Babic talked about this vineyard, I just said that the vineyard was planted in spring, on parcels that were leased only in autumn, almost incredible, and there was no agreement on investment investment. It was won for that plot only in 2012, an almost incredible thing. Now someone's talking about corruption, about investment, and that's why I said at the beginning, does my colleague think that the law on lying or the law on investment is on the agenda? As far as I'm concerned, I'm also concerned that my colleague didn't talk about investing in agriculture, because I expected it. Most likely that these investments were by his or her former prime minister's state investment and that he was not interested in the rest, and if he's not interested, there are those of us who are interested, and you dear viewers see who ruled everything in Serbia. We did well, when I wonder after those discussions, what some of my colleagues think. I expected him to say something about agriculture, because I think investment should concentrate on agriculture, on the processing industry, on energy, on service and on three areas, where agriculture, except that it needs to make raw materials and enough food in the fresh state and frozen, for the population, it needs to make raw materials for the processing industry, but agriculture today can make both energy and for agricultural production, biodiesel and heat for the heating of the population, but also energy from biomass, biomass. So, it can generate energy for the processing industry and that through processing, processing industry, through energy development, through repairing, farm equipment, equipment for processing plants, so that the population can be employed, that before the processing industry should rise as close as possible to the site of production, that in such a way we can revive the villages, that they are not released, that the population should not be reinvigorated, that the average is not 59 years old, that what farmers produce in the field, that their sons, their daughters, their daughter, their sister, are able to process in processing plants, as close as possible to the place of production, and that in such a way we raise the devastated economy, not only our countries, but to raise and villages, not to stop us. It's no longer just a agricultural question, it's a matter of freedom, sovereignty, a question of tradition, a question of survival of these territories, because it's not hard to assume that because of the white plague, and the white plague is the worst of ethnic cleansing, the cradles take possession of that territory, because at least as a majority people, we have fresh memories of what it looks like when someone from your native territory takes over the cradles, unless we raise the economy of this country, unless we raise agriculture, unless we raise the processing industry, in which case, the population will inevitably be emptied and someone else will come to that population, whether we want it or not. So, I support the law, I support investment. Foreign investment is acceptable, and I would like domestics to be as much as possible, to invest in the area that I said, because I believe that if we are united about the problem that we have entered, and I think that the economy and economy is our biggest problem, if we are united, I think that we can make work and bread enough for our population, that everyone has a decent job, a decent salary, that everyone has a decent home, that everyone can be treated and schooled, and that everyone has a decent age, that we can no longer live on as during the former regime, but that through investment and raising the economy, and I already said from which areas we can earn money that we don't live more than the person in charge, but that we can live on the earned. They didn't know how to make money, they knew how to spend money. They had no idea about planting and sowing, it was just about picking and harvesting. In that case, no one was planting. They were opening foreign trade chains. No one produced...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36916	Please, Mr. Risticevic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36917	What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36918	Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36919	I'm talking about investments. So we have to invest so we don't be in debt, so foreign money doesn't buy foreign goods. That's why I'm going to support this bill, because the economic policy of the former regime looked like that to me - you plant the gum and you wait for the pig to pop up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36920	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Let the People's MP Alexander Jovicic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36921	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, we have today another miracle from the Serbian Progressive Party. Progressors say -- they will either pass or propose a law that will solve all problems in the Serbian economy. It will open to hundreds of thousands of jobs. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: This is your godfather's promise, it's not us.) My question is, what time has it been for the last four years? What time do we listen to empty promises and empty stories? Today's hall of the Republika Srpska Assembly, which was empty, and in which there were not even MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, speaks enough of the support or understanding of your bill... (Alexander Markovic, from the scene: Look at the number of you, only three.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36922	Please allow Mr. Bozovic to complete the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36923	And it says enough how much the ruling majority believes that this law as a special or new miracle of the Serbian Progressive Party will change things when it comes to an economic picture in Serbia. In my personal record that I have kept since you came to power, you haven't been all four years, Mr Sertic, but one significant part is, this is the ninety-nineth promise of the Serbian Progressive Party when it comes to better life, the possibility of opening new jobs. Ninety-nineth promise! (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: A little bit about the law? ) The investment law represents something that, again, is a promise of insane joy. I'll just remind you of some. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: He knows the law, he's fine. ) Public procurement and savings bill of 700m euros, so I wonder how much did you save? Revisions of robbery privatisations 24. With that, gentlemen, you came to power and everyone else in the drawer. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: that's what you've become rich in. ) "Belgrade on Water" as the biggest fraud in the history of the capital, will employ more than 200,000 people, 3.5 billion euros in investment. Construction of the canal to Elje. Cancelling the TV subscription. Reduce unemployment by 9% by building thermal power plants and hydropower plants. So I was wondering if you'd invite me to open up the thermal power plants and hydro power plants last year, as you promised? By the end of June 2013, you say – a large aircraft component factory will be opened in Pančevo. So I'm just curious about how far it's come with production? A promise to the pensioners that their rights will not be touched. The FAP Car Factory Strategic Partner from Priboj, has he shown up again, since the last time, once again, that manager from Mercedes? Ten billion euros in UAE investment. I'd like to see one euro. The chip factory, where the job will find 50 doctors of science. The factory for manufacturing parts for "Boing" and "Er Bass". I'm not gonna read it all, but here's another one. Four hundred million euros for irrigation. Have you managed to solve the problem facing a Serbian peasant in Serbia with irrigation channels? 100,000 apartments for 280 euros per square. And not to read any further. There's more of that. You're passing the investment law and the basic thing here, to be clear, I'm not involved, these are just economic promises, that's why it's 99. Otherwise, there are promises that Kosovo will remain an integral part of Serbia and that Serb sanctity will remain within the SPC, but we will not talk about it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36924	Please, Mr. Bozovic, come back on the subject a little, please, there are a lot more MPs who are going to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36925	In the very explanation of the law that we had today to definitely get into the hands of, the three charming ladies sitting next to you, they very well admitted that the investments for these four years were gone and that's the reason for your investment law and thank you for your honesty. Although I appreciate your associates or your co-worker, I don't think she's the only predisposition of SNS membership or experience in the matter of television and running a certain programme, to be a special adviser to the Minister of Investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36926	Mr. Bozovic, they're right MPs, so let's get back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36927	You fell for every promise you had in the last four years. The three investments you make on every television programme, where you employ about 300 or 400 people, are your only argument, investments where memorandas were signed by Cvetkovic's Government in 2012. While your officials are opening, Mr Seric, companies in the Virgin Islands, Serbia has not seen a single euro investment or open jobs for the past four years. Article 11 of your bill provides for investment of special importance for the Republic of Serbia and, behold, a special importance for the Republic of Serbia determines who? No less than the top of the SNS. State aid in this case, according to the bill, is published without a public call. Consider the case of "Berograda on Water", when the strategic partner of the "Serbian virgin party" is concerned, then he has the right without a public call to receive all the support and subsidies of the state, which a simple citizen who owns a small or medium-sized enterprise cannot even dream of. You save on pensions and salaries, Mr. Sertić, you take from scholarships of students and young talent, pregnant women and maternity, and it pours into pockets only those who represent business partners of the top of the government and we think this is not a good law for that reason. You say this legal solution will contribute to greater investment in the Serbian economy. In no single sentence in the bill, you mentioned an investment environment. I'm not sure you've even read the World Bank's proposal or advice. What law do you propose here today and put to the vote and adoption and what law are you talking about today when the President of the Republic mentions in several statements the possibility of civil war breaking out in Serbia? (Zoran Babić, from the post: Ukrainian script Borko called for you. ) In one of the statements of the President of the Republic's Office, I quote, says of the president of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36928	Please, Mr. Bozovic, a little less challenging the replicas, and a little more going back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36929	I mentioned an investment environment in which the President of the Republic announced in several statements the possibility of civil war in Serbia. President of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36930	Mr Bozovic, these are serious things, we had in the previous period that some MPs make similar statements, I ask you not to go back to these things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36931	I agree that these are serious things, but I wanted to ask Mr Sertic what kind of investment ambience is in this case in Serbia, and does anyone really think that he will invest in Serbia a single dinar when such irresponsible statements are made by top state officials daily in the media of Serbia. With this law, "the Serbian virgin party is trying to retain its policy of privileged investors, because it is only the Government who in this case has the discretionary right to decide what is in the interest of Serbian citizens, what is in the interests of themselves, and in accordance with this, acts and provides subsidies and other support for investments. It's a matter of creating a completely new politically appropriate class. That's what we talked about a few years ago. That class will be supported by doctors, professors, police officers, soldiers, and you yourself know that from the investments that have been made in vain by this promise, in the 1990s by SNS, these investments will absolutely be nothing. What kind of investment ambience are we talking about when you, as Minister today in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, say in the lobby that you are not allowed to publish the contract on Jelizari? You can't publish a contract as a minister. You declare winning the opening of the second furnace. Well done, honestly, from the bottom of my heart. But you forgot to tell the citizens that you closed the first furnace, and then somehow you stay the same. Corruption is a different name for this law, and here's why. The government of the Republic of Serbia slowly takes over the Assembly's authority as a central political institution, as a legislative body in Serbia. You are passing a law that is as widespread and wide as some pamphlet, and it points to a further sublegal act of the government that will be brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia within the next few months. So the laws passed by the fact government, and you put only the title of the law here to vote, do not create sufficient legal certainty in the Republic of Serbia, and when we mention the investment environment again, legal certainty is, Mr Sertic, you could have learned this time, one of the basic things and preconditions for every investment of every dinar and the creation of a new job. The idea is that it is this way that the SNS will be the only one to decide or decide on the budgets defined to help the Serbian economy. Then we have two types of investors -- one that are politically similar and that will get everything and we have others that are not politically similar and that will ultimately get nothing. There's no strategy, there's no plan, as you know. I don't think, for that reason, this law can definitely come across the support of the DS MPs. Article 13, which is referred to by the Anti-Corruption Agency, Article 13, is one of the members who speaks of there being no transparency here and there are no criteria, when it comes to the allocation of funds or incentives. Paragraph 1 of Article 13 provides that investors can exercise the right to different incentives, and the Government is the one that is closer to regulating these criteria. Why didn't you bring the criteria, so here we can face opinions and talk about them and then really pass a good, transparent law, which every businessman in Serbia will be able to read exactly what it is of the conditions that he has to meet in order to get incentives or funds? You didn't have the courage to do that. Do you know why you didn't have the courage? You didn't have the courage for the simple reason this isn't your law or your charming colleagues. This is a law served to you by a certain number of tycoons or strategic partners of the SNS, and I find it very inappropriate for this home.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36932	Mr Bozovicu, do you think you will be more convincing if you insult members of the government, or MPs, colleagues?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36933	I said, charming colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36934	I beg you, all the time in your speech, you insult your colleagues, you insult the members of the government. I beg you, do not like it to you and ask you to adjust your exposure to these laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36935	I quote the Anti-Corruption Agency, which says - the proposed solutions continue to contain the shortcomings and risks of corruption. In one of the delegations to the Government and to the Minister responsible for Business Affairs, it is precisely what I was talking about, although it is necessary to edit these issues in more detail, that they should be governed by legal provisions, leading to an increase in the possibility of corruption. The Serbian government has taken over the adoption of this law through sublegal acts, and that is something that is completely evident. The Serbian virgin party really believes such legal uncertainty is good. This is one of the questions for you as Minister of Business, and whether it will foster an investment environment in Serbia, that the government takes over the Parliament's authority, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is passing sublegal acts that are not in agreement with the laws, are not in agreement with the Constitution and that in this way a single picture is being broadcast in Serbia for every businessman or possibly a potential foreign investor who wants to invest in Serbia. In a situation where we have irresponsible state-level statements, in a situation where conflicts continue to be discussed in Serbia, in a situation where police are abused, in a situation where there are no political freedoms, in a situation where each opposition MP is interrupted as he speaks... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36936	Mr. Bozovic, I'm really gonna have to interrupt. The messengers are rightfully insolent, for you constantly violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and insult your fellow Members. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I finish? This is not the way to do it. If you want to talk about the law, you'll get your word for it. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: I talk all the time about the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36937	Thank you. I don't think there's any need to spread anxiety. This is a political debate on the subject of the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36938	This isn't anxiety, this is just the respect of this high house and of your colleagues and members of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36939	Doubtful investments that preceded the Investment Act, which are indeed covered by the Investment Act, “Belgrade on Water” or e.g. "Meita" in Obrenovac, that you allow someone to talk about the employment of 1,500 workers, where out of 60m euros, investments, states, cities and municipalities give 40m, and that it is 100 per cent owned by investors from China, is a policy that will lead us to ruin. Several million euros per job, when it comes to "Belgrade on Water", are subsidies from the Republic of Serbia. That's not how politics is run in the economy. We think she's a disaster. The Kopalnik hotel, Mercedes buses, previously shut down Icarbus bus production, and then we import parts and make buses with Mercedes components in Serbia, do you really think this is a solution to Serbia's economy? In a situation where there is nothing that really does not represent corruption in this law, you will have the opportunity to praise a few businessmen in Serbia tomorrow in the media. I have absolutely no dilemma that this will happen, but you know which political option they matter to. Much more professionally, much more transparently this law must be written...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36940	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36941	After all, I end up, I have another minute, in Serbia in the last four years only the top of the SNS lives better, while everyone else lives worse. It's your business policy. There is no future for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36942	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36943	Dear Ambassador Bozovic, this is an example of your investment environment that you have left for us. The minister shows photos. ) Here, MPs on this side to see, broken-down factories without workers, destroyed and in complete chaos. You have done nothing in the previous period to change or what you have done, it certainly is not a way to address us in either the ministry or my associates, and especially most in the House of Representatives. These are investments you say don't exist. Here, gold grain fields in Serbia with the most modern machinery, with 45m euros invested in equipment only this year, in the latest tractors, in the irrigation system to get everything we need. Look, these are investments in Serbia, and these are the things we're proud of, like SNS and I as a minister, and I'm going to stand here all the time to defend every single thing and every law that we propose here on behalf of the future and on behalf of these fruits that should be in Serbia every day and more, not just in agriculture, but in every other place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36944	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr Bozovicu, you have chosen a replica and in those 20 minutes you have so offended the MPs and the government that I think it is not correct that you are now looking for a replica. (Goran Ćirić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word to Mr. Joviciæ. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: It's really not right. You know very well that when someone is given the word that we can't... Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36945	Thank you, Your Honor. We have been listening almost all day to representatives of the former regime treating the government of the Republic of Serbia, treating the Prime Minister, ministers, the MPs of the SNS. It only once again shows their haughtiness, their anxiety, and it is entirely justified why. How would you behave, Mr. Chairman, to make everyone behave if we were, for example? Members of the Democratic Party and that we have a president of the same party who must not go to the lie detector, who must not bring out the truth he stands for in the institutions of our country because he is aware that he is not telling the truth? I'm aware that he shouldn't answer one single question on that detector, quite simply, if he were asked, do you, Mr. Pittice, put the election on hold? He would, of course, say to the public that he can call on them, but the detector would reveal that he's a little scared, and that's quite clear. The Democratic Party has been making lies all along, and here I will list one in the sea of those who brought it out today. I'd really have to talk to you by morning, although it's not hard for me to answer everything, but one that's been burning my ears like this, where I've been involved in the process itself, of course, on the contrary, on the side of justice, honesty and responsible policy that we've been leading since, and that's Icarbus. A moment ago, a former regime representative said -- you destroyed Icarbus, and then you set out to make a deal with Mercedes. I spent two years of my life trying to prove that Mr. Gilas, who led the City of Belgrade and with whom you were the closest associate, did not buy buses from Solaris in the Czech Republic, Poland or wherever, but to buy 300 buses from Icarbus. Two years. In the end, although there was great pressure from the opposition in the city of Belgrade that we were presenting, you bought those buses because of the percentage and because of the corruption you were talking about all day. You did not protect the Serbian economy, you did not protect the people who work in Zemun, who make up the home bus, but you ran faster and bought a foreign producer, and as you can see in Belgrade we got 30 buses from Icarbus, and next year we will get 80 more. Only that argument is enough to prove the lie you've been presenting all day to the citizens of Serbia, to draw attention to yourself and how the bottom you're already digging under the censors wouldn't somehow stop. We're aware of those facts. You're talking about some islands, so more of your officials have an account on the Virgin Islands than we have a board member. How can you not be ashamed? Our main board is big, counting over 500 people. You're saying why some minister's advisor, and this one's a lawyer, and your Oliver Dulic, as an orthopedist, ran the building and the environment, with the best campaign in Serbia "Let's Clean Serbia" and cleaned it up completely. This is the Democratic Party. He completely cleaned up the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course he didn't clean up the trash, he left it to us. The budget of the Republic of Serbia, the greater corruption we could not see, but in your time. For every corruption that happens today, everyone, regardless of where the party is, we showed that when we removed our MP's immunity and we prosecuted certain people who led local self-government and that fight won't stop. Fighting corruption isn't something you finish and you never do it anymore, because there are all of us, you never know who's gonna put your hand in the people's pocket, but that one has to end up where he belongs, and that's in prison. Mr. Pitiæ was at the hearing yesterday. I expected him to come out, to respond to the polygraph, but he shouldn't have. I know he's uncomfortable going to the police because he's afraid he can be held there because he knows how they led the country and how they run the government of the Duke. It's from the aspect of how you acted and we can tell about crimes, corruption, etc. My heart hurts when I see one thing, that one president of the AP Vojvodina can put a million and a half euros in pockets and Elezovic and in his personal pockets and many others, and at the expense of who? Not at the expense, I don't know any foreign investor, even though you've been doing it, but disabled children. It's a shame. You robbed children with special needs. It's just how you treat the AP Vojvodina budget, and we saw how you treated the city of Belgrade, how you treated the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36946	Please, Mr. Jovic, just get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36947	I'm in the dark. You say 100,000 jobs we promised through the project "Belgrade on Water". We have not promised 100,000 jobs, we have already said that we will raise our construction industry, we have said that several thousand citizens will directly, indirectly get a chance to work, but wait – is this said by a party representative of the former regime that was at the time in which they had the president of Serbia, who in 2008, when the severe crisis occurred around the world, said -- that's a chance for Serbia, that's a chance for Serbia? It doesn't matter what the United States, Russia is in trouble, it's just a chance for Serbia. You lied to us. From that chance, we got 400,000 jobs, or 400,000 people lost their jobs. We received over 500 failed privatisations, you devastated every bank in Serbia and we saw how they ended. We also had those ministers, since we see that the entirely unfounded affairs of the Democratic Party factory are not being accepted at all among the citizens, I will only remind the citizens of a paradox in politics. From the man who raised the ramps, who worked in some other places, but I wouldn't talk about it, who came naked and barefooted the minister, the minister of power, was able to then build a building on the pasture, and where, on Vrakar, and to transform the land built into a pasture. That's what happened, Mr. Chairman, during the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36948	Mr. Jovicic, I understand these are investments, but I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36949	It's investment. How come they're not investments? It's just that in Serbia we have to learn to share investments in two columns - assets and passports, as you will call it. The first column is what we are fighting for, which is to make "Belgrade on Water", to build buildings, to make apartments, to make Serbia have 32% of it in the Republic of Serbia's budget, so it flows into the budget of the city of Belgrade, and then we have for maternity, we have for social separation, for infrastructure, etc. We stand for that column. I don't know, Mr. Chairman, I'll explain the second column. To come naked and barefoot to power, from "Tresor" discotheque, and to raise the ramps, to be a small minister, then to earn a few million, and to make an investment on the Vrakar that only that man benefits from. We don't want that kind of investment. You know how, when I hear from the former regime's representatives saying -- corruption, we heard Mr. Zoran Zivkovic mention some corruption all the time, it's a clean auto-projection. They see in everything the mirror and know how they would act in that situation. They know right away that they'd come in and take whatever they can take in these companies, if we could also express foreign investors, etc. However, the practice, people, is over in Serbia. You must understand that this practice is over. We want to behave responsibly, we want to adopt laws that are in line with the EU and all world-renowned institutions, such as the World Bank, etc., and then you attack what we want to comply with, and you say – we are going to Europe, we want a better standard, we want a more orderly society, etc. Well, you're creating a policy on day-to-day political issues, are we going to say one thing tomorrow, of course, we're going to say something else, without any arguments. I was thinking today that maybe Mr. Pajtic, that's what I thought, Mr. Chairman, and it's important for the investment, because we need to know how he runs the province, maybe Mr. Pajtic wants to go to the lie detector, but at the Minister of the Shadow, Mr. Sutanovac, because he'd probably feel comfortable there. What they say is, who you're with, who you're with, and somehow you'd find each other. But, let's not joke about it, I just want to say something to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Don't doubt it, and I'm sorry that I've been kind of revised by the speeches of those who have devastated Serbia and I haven't talked enough about the law, but Mr Sertic fought for this law today and talked in this Assembly about a law more than Mirko Cvetkovic has been here for four years. That's where we differ. About one law hour and 10 minutes in the opening part, each individual answered, and if you calculate that, it's over three or four hours. However, and for a little while longer at the conference, I waited after you, 30-20 minutes at the conference, but it's incomparably longer than Mirko Cvetkovic ever found himself here, and you told us it was the man who was going to give birth to Serbia. You should be ashamed of yourself. Never again in Serbia, and I end up not being repeated by Djelic, as a great expert who came to work for 200 euros, so he left with 10 million, nor Mr Oliver Dulic, who treats rheumatotic diseases, or what he does, and then suddenly - let's clean up the budget of the Republic of Serbia, etc., and many others. I'm sorry that the former regime's representative never has the courage to face arguments, but he always runs out of the O.R. somewhere in the first third of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36950	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. Mr. Ziric, you have the right to a replica because the Democratic Party is mentioned. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36951	Here, we're reminding ourselves of pictures of the 90s parliament. So one real radical approach. I don't think it's good, and because of this law, and because of this debate, that when opposition MPs come out with some arguments, and they have the right to remember 99 promises that haven't been fulfilled so far, we have anger and personal insults. This was followed by Zivkovic, Risticevic's performance, Balša Bozovica, your performance and, of course, by accident in that list of speakers, we always have that order. I don't think it's good for you first, Minister, for this government, and I don't think it's good for this law either, because this approach to personal insults when you don't like the arguments of the other side is extremely bad. You mentioned Bojan Pitiæ and the lie detector. A thousand times will probably happen again in public. What's Bojan Pitiæ's fault? By opening his phone at the call of his own sister, your co-worker of the Deputy Prime Minister, whose president is Alexander Vukic? Is that right? And he took her charges that he was recruited by the director of a public firm? So, Bojan Pajtic only participates in hearing accusations that one...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36952	Mr. Kiric, you're replicating Mr. Jovicic's exposure, but this wasn't the subject of his exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36953	Exactly what we heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36954	I'm asking you not to open new topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36955	I'll be right back. Here, I think the minister also warned you that it would be my turn to respond in the right way, which is that the prime minister came out of the White House after leaving the White House and accused the sister of one of the ministers from his own government of recalibrating and not allowing her company to recalibrate the government itself. It's just a question of who's recruiting who... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36956	Thank you, Mr. Kiriq. The word is Mr. Jovicic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36957	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, for the sake of truth, if someone picked up the phone, here, that you and I were talking and you told me something, I heard it, I told you something, and I put it out in public after a year. Usually people don't even remember what they said three days ago, let alone after a year. Then why is it a problem for someone to go and confirm it, to say it – it was, the polygraph says it's right, it's true, and then we'll see what happens next? Why can't someone go on a polygraph? That's the key question. Nikola Petrovic went to the polygraph himself, insisted, the man went through neatly, and what's this about? Let Mr. Pitiæ do the same. What are you afraid of? Today, the state has a system and, most importantly, it reproduces towards everyone equally, the same thing. There is no more Democratic Party, the Serbian Progressive Party, and never should people be divided into those categories, but they should be divided into thieves and those who are honest and work in the interests of the state, regardless of which party they hide. We want to make such a Serbia and leave it to those who come after us. If Mr. Pajtic is right, here, we all support him from here, if we have to stand outside, not where he's going to be on the polygraph, but in front of the building, to guard our fear and wait to see what's true. Of course he can't leave, Mr. Chairman, because it's an absolute lie. Someone took the paper and wrote out what he was talking to someone and now all of Serbia needs to believe it. Well, we have a way to prove it, we have ways. What are you afraid of? Once again, I urge Mr. Pajtic to respond to the lie detector, to determine what is true, because otherwise everything the Democratic Party says falls into the water. As long as we have an omen and a history of how you treated our country, then there's nothing to talk about anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36958	I thank you, Mr. Jovic. Mr. Nikola Petrovic is a high moral man and he showed it. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica! Mr. Kiric, the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36959	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 107. Earlier, Mr. Ciric mentioned some speakers and speeches that he did not like, but what was symptomatic, and when he spoke about Mr. Bozovic and Mr. Zivkovic's speech, he only appeared after Mr. Aleksandr Jovicic, so it would turn out that although he was telling the truth, the essence of the relationship in our society in the last 15 years, he would turn out to have a different tone. Now we've heard the elaborate, which is why someone picked up the phone and heard something, and that's why someone should be trusted by word. I, Bojan Pajtic, and certainly neither the citizens of Serbia nor the citizens living in Vojvodina, trust him on the word, because he gave the same word when he said Neda Arneric voted for the election of governors, even though it was known that Neda Arneric was in Bodrum at the time. At the time, Pajtic was head of the DOS parliamentary group and then told the media and the Serbian public that Neda Arneric was in Belgrade, and the woman was thousands of kilometers away from Belgrade. Now to one such man, who, at least once was caught in a lie, which has been proven, and this case has a court epilogue, some people are convicted, now such a man should be trusted by word. But, in my humble opinion, Mr. Pajtic refused a polygraph for other things, not whether he spoke to someone or not, not whether he picked up the phone or not, not whether he remembered the talks a year ago or not ago, he was afraid of other answers and other questions. What about the Vojvodine Development Bank? What about Saric? What about Tesla Bank? What about the Capital Investment Fund? What about the funds identified for children distracted by development? What about all that crime in Vojvodina that he's been directing and covering for the past 15 years?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36960	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. It's all common knowledge. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Ciric has a word, a replica, two minutes, mentioning the party's president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36961	Exactly, mentioning the party president and only one answer to all these questions. What about the Vojvodina Development Bank? You probably have more specific information, but the payment of the Vojvodine Development Bank's claim is 90% and the public needs to know. We're talking about average bad placements in successful banks, we heard in the prime minister's opening statement, which is about 23%. There are arguments, and that's why it was a relationship to the Vojvodine Development Bank, but I think it's one of the outstanding issues again. I think it was a lot of anxiety, but I'm going to ask you the same question - why don't you call the man who promised these 99 things, which was also spoken of by MP Balša Bozovic? Let me remind you, let's see, let's all go out on a lie polygraph and say, let's check, did someone promise "Belgrade on water" that would employ not 100,000, but 200 thousand people, and bring the city hundreds of millions of euros in profits? Did anyone say they were going to build a canal to the Aegean Sea? Let's get a polygraph with that. Has anyone said that by the end of June 2013, a large aircraft component factory in Panchev will be open in co-operation with the Mubadal company. It's 2015. What would the polygraph say about promising that a strategic partner for the FAP car factory will be quickly found, that 10 billion euros in investment from the United Arab Emirates will come to Serbia, that 10,000 billion investments from China will come, which is exactly what the minister has promised. Come on, let's see what's going on with the polygraph that's going to answer these questions. What about the development center, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36962	I thank you, Mr. Kiriq.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36963	We can play with a polygraph all you want, but people expect much more real information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36964	The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic. Replica two minutes, and that closes the circle of replicas. We're back on the subject. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36965	I'd be happy to take Mr. Kiric for a walk on the Sava Promenade, but I'm going to take with me all those paintings that adorned the same space only a few months ago, that is, a few years ago. The abandoned and rusty ships, the garrisons in which people lived in extremely inhumane conditions and now with a change, even if nothing else had been done. Mr. Kiric, promise - execution. Unfortunately for you, and for the joy of the Belgraders, for the joy of the citizens of Serbia who will be employed here, you have also seen a cornerstone for the first two towers. That's what everybody sees. Promise - execution. We can do the polygraph, but let's do the polygraph and Tadic, then Cvetkovic, and with all those people who promised 200 thousand jobs, and you voted, Mr. Ciric, for such promises, and we can also win those thousands of euros just to win the election, so we can win all those promises that were adorned in 2008, 2009, 2010 to 2012. Do you know what happened to Alexander Wolfie's promises? The company from Germany, you'll understand why I won't talk about company names, car industry May-June 2016, opening 510 jobs in Indjia, automotive industry, Canada company in Odzac, 500 jobs in September 2016. From the Hungarian construction industry in Subotica, the value of investment of 8.8m euros in jobs 205, the car industry from China is a company in Obrenovac 60m euros in 1500 employees, from the Italian automotive industry also in Krusevec, the value of investment of fivem euros in 100 employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36966	Thank you. You don't have enough time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36967	I'm going to need a few replicas to read all the investments and all the jobs that this government of the Republic of Serbia has opened.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36968	Dear People's MPs, I'm informing you, Mr. Kiriq, I beg you, mention it is. You're formally entitled to a replica, but I'm going to have to take a break if it continues. So, we've been here for over half an hour, Mr. Kiriq, please listen to me. We haven't talked about the agenda in half an hour, if you're going to continue with the replicas, I'm going to have to take a break. I will now inform the MPs that today, on Tuesday 20 October 2015, we will not be able to follow the meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in a direct transfer to the Second RTS Programme due to the previously agreed obligation to transfer the Cup of Serbia in volleyball, the Red Star – Vojvodina, as well as the World League matches in water polo Serbia – France below. The footage of part of the session that wasn't broadcast in direct transmission, we'll broadcast in the follow-up. So please, you're not on direct transmission, and if you're doing it for that, I'm asking you to... Mr. Kiriq, I'm going to give you the right to the replica now, but I'm going to have to take a break if you continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36969	Is that what you told Mr. Babic? So he doesn't have the right to replica after that. I won't even mention him. We heard all the great things that were done and we heard how many results remained in Serbia from those promises and we saw what the effects were. We talked about these investments that should bring such good effects to both the budget and the public debt reduction, but we see what happened with the public debt, an increase of ten billion by three years, from 15 billion to 25. I'll remind you of some other promises, even though we're talking about those promises and executions, that's also the promise that the current will cost 20% and the promise that there won't be a cut in wages and pensions. There were those promises, and that's what we all remember. Can we check that on the polygraph, and will you also invite the mayor of Belgrade to come out in this way that you invited the president of the DS to explain if he has what they're accusing him of.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36970	Mr. Kiriq, you're trying to convince here from the yellow press what can be mentioned here and put on a polygraph. We now have no conditions to continue the session of the Serbian Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36971	And did you warn your colleagues and colleagues?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36972	Mr. Ciric, you forget that you have opened this circle of replicas, that you have caused replicas, that Mr. Bozovic, with his speech, has caused a series of replicas, you forget very well, so please bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36973	That's not true. People were saying, so DS MPs were talking about the law and they had the right to talk about the effects and the environment for investment, but with a personal attack...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36974	Mr. Ciric, you forget that I interrupted Mr. Bozovic several times because he insulted the members of the government and the MPs by asking you to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36975	At no point did he talk about their personal lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36976	Mr. Granny, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36977	You said no more replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36978	Mr. Kiric, if you were a little more MP in the National Assembly, you'd know that whoever causes the replica has to let the circle of replicas close because whoever is called will have the right to replication. Here you go, head of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36979	It's an absolute lie and it would be better to install one lie detector here in the National Assembly so that anyone who speaks for it will be attached, so that we can see how the lie detector will react to Mr. Ciric's earlier claims about the growth of public debt. I think it would explode. But I'm going to ask him as an excellent economist, how much growth in public debt has affected the growth of dollars in relation to the euro that the Republic of Serbia has no authority, no influence whatsoever. How much public debt growth was affected by the fact that in 2015 alone, Mr. Ciric, one million and two hundred million euros in interest we pay for what you owed and you spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36980	Please, Mr. Granny, don't speak directly to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36981	I'll ask Mr. Ciric, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Becic, which is why I'm talking to you as a major economist for the growth of deficits, the general state from 2008 to 2012, more than twice, has never raised a word and said no heavy measures, do something to reduce that deficit of the general state. Yeah, we did. We said it wouldn't be easy or simple, and we said it would be hard. And for that reason, the current estimate of the general government deficit is now projected at 3.3%. Not once in five years, and five years only increased the deficit of 2.6%, so 4.4%, 4.6%, 4.8% to 6.8%. These are the answers you have to answer and it's not enough to say we paid the political price. What's with the funds? Someone's gonna have a carousel. Who mentions Oliver Dulic more? Who mentions Sasha Dragina more? Who mentions these people who filled their pockets and emptied all citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36982	The word is made by the MP Jankov Veseninović. Here you go. (Goran Ciric, from the place: Replica. I was directly mentioned. I'm gonna have to take a break because this doesn't lead to anything. If you don't allow the Assembly to continue. Mr. Kiric, will you allow Janko Veselinović, who received the word to continue. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36983	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Sertic, is now on the agenda of three draft laws, not one. So, there's only one law being talked about and I'm going to watch at least at the end of the exposure to say something about another law. First of all, the investment law. Mr. Sertic, if someone from the Turnover Movement were you, you'd do it next. I'll give you friendly advice. I'd take four phone numbers, and I'd invite those government people to a meeting. First of all, I would like to invite Minister Vujovic, I would say, good evening, since I would do it past the daily activities, Mr Vujovic, if you were not available, if you weren't in the post office, I'm just kidding, I'd like to ask you something. Please, Mr Vujovicu, reduce the burden from the back of the Serbian Business. The small businessmen, the businessmen, complain that they can't employ their capacities, because the state is peeling their skin. With what? Taxes, imposes on local self-government, imposes, taxes, expensive utility services. Do you, Mr Sertić, that perhaps before this law you should do so, will any of the domestic businessmen or foreign investors come to a country where the skin is peeled by businessmen and small businesses? The second phone, Mr. Sertic, who would have called, asked for a meeting Mr. Selakovic. I'd tell him next, Mr. Selakovic, these businessmen are complaining, coming to my meeting, confirm to me Mr. Sertic that's the case. They say that justice is slow, that it's impossible to get to it, that court disputes last for years, that they can't determine who owes and who asks. There is no rule of law, Mr. Selakovic, help, otherwise I will not stay in that place.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36984	I'm sorry, Mr. Veselinović, Mr. Sertic, not Mr. Selakovic. This is the Minister of Business, not the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36985	Mr. Selakovic, I suggest he call. So, Mr. Sertice advises. The third number of phones I would call is Mrs. Mihajlovic and I would ask her to activate standing investments in railway infrastructure, roads, etc. There are no businessmen who will come to a country where this is an abandoned infrastructure. The fourth phone I'd call, I'd ask for a meeting is Mr. Vukic's phone and I'd say yes, I spoke to these three ministers, and if they don't give me conditions, I can't implement economic reform. If you let me do that, I resign. Mr. Sertich, that's what you should do before this. The fact that it is the most inefficient government shows that you are looking for 120 days to pass sublegal acts. Why 120 days? I can't help but mention a law that is very important, which has not been mentioned at all today, which is a bill on the licensing of bankruptcy managers. After 13.14 years, bankruptcy in certain public enterprises takes place. In Beka 4,500 workers, small shareholders, waiting for the end of the bankruptcy, they have nothing to eat, Mr Sertic. Why? Because bankruptcy managers don't do their job. Banks in many companies take too long, Mr. Sertic, and that slows down the efforts you're trying to make. Mr. Sertić, this paper, this law, without what I suggested you do, the Turnover Movement that he suggested, there will be no effect, Mr. Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36986	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Replica, but the minister has an advantage, Mr. Babice. Here you go, Minister Zeljko Sertic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36987	Dear Mr. Jankovic, I apologize, Ambassador Veselinovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36988	Please, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36989	I'm happy to turn these four phones around and now I'm going to tell you the answers that I am, almost sure I'm going to get from all four of the people you called. First of all, Minister Vujovic will tell you first, so, gentlemen, dear, I did not impose thousands of duties on the economy, but on your authority. Mr. Selakovic, when I turn him around, he'll say I don't know who's talking or who's crazy here, so we didn't do reform, but you did, a few years ago, and got the worst grades from international organisations. Vice-President Mihajlović, when I turn around and ask her what is with the infrastructure, she will say – so I changed the law to be among the ten, the last ones we inherited, the Law on Planning and Construction, among the 10 last countries in the world at the speed of issuing permits, we made a modern law, a new story, and we will be at the very top and we will make the Law on Conversion that allows us exactly what you are telling us. In the end, when you mention the Prime Minister, none of these laws, none of the jobs we've done in the previous period, none of the praises we've received from the world's greatest leaders, from the most invaluable people, would be if it weren't for Alexander Vukic, the prime minister in this country. As a minister, I couldn't do my job well and properly, responsibly and honestly, if he wasn't the one sitting at the head of our government and giving both the guidance and support to all of us for the reforms I'm carrying out, so your story as to who does what in government, I think it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36990	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. Mr. Kiric, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36991	Mr. Chairman, article 107 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which states that a session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the People's MP to another MP and to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments, relating to the private life of others. I think the minister, with all due respect and willingness to accept the wit and this kind of answer, and you've probably been offended by the different last name the MP spoke to you, so you gave him back the same amount, but I think the laundry was an insult and you broke the Rules of Procedure when you asked who was crazy here? I don't think it's appropriate and I don't think it looks like you, but it would be important if you apologize to Ambassador Veselinovic, because it would be important for all of us, and it would be most important for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36992	Mr. Kiric, before I ask you if you wish the Assembly to plead... (Goran Ciric, from the place: Yes, yes, of course. )......................................................................................................... Just to remind you that you are looking at the Rules of Procedure again, so that it is clear to you that, in this case, especially a member of the Government, but not even a MP to break the Rules of Procedure, that only I can do that as chairman. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. National MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Sertic, the advantage has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but here you are, Minister Zeljko Sertic, after Mr Veselinovic gave up. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I did not give up, but I will after him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36993	I answered a direct question from the MPs and gave a direct answer. It was really not my intention to hurt the messenger or any of the MPs or any of you sitting here in the bench. Take my apology for that comment, but the whole point of what I said, I'm still staying on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36994	Thank you, Mr. Sertice. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Veselinović, you know very well, you have long been an MP, that you can only directly, that you cannot in this way be called to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babic, are you staying at... ? You gave up. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36995	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, it is very difficult to say something new after the comprehensive presentation of the esteemed Secretary-General, Mr. Sertic, who in his presentation covered almost all aspects of this law, but also all aspects of this whole area that relate to investment and investment and the development of entrepreneurship, as well as economic growth and everything else. I will therefore be very brief and stress only those most important elements of this law, i.e. the objectives, which are achieved by this law, and of course I will not specifically refer to what the previous speaker was, therefore, the speaker before Minister Sertic was a little earlier. It's one leader, the great leader of a small group of citizens, so he likes to represent himself. I'm glad you started signing it with a "own-minded MP" that he actually is. Honestly, I'm very surprised by the fact that he even got involved in today's debate. At the very least, I expected him not to speak today, so he's going to keep quiet today, not to ask for a word today. And why is that? Now let me explain why. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is this? What's this? Because today's bill of law... (Janko Veselinović, from the place: What is this? Can I continue, Mr. Chairman? Because today's bill creates a better investment environment, repairs the business environment, and once again, most importantly, we encourage new investments. Unlike him and his party, or rather his parties, because he often changes parties, so he doesn't even know which party he's in, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36996	Please, colleague Markovic, come back...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36997	... who forced investors, Mr. Chairman. In their time, they forced investors to do everything they could to avoid creating a healthy climate and a normal climate and a healthy environment to stimulate investment. By conscious action, but not by doing, and by high degree of corruption and poor and inadequate legal solutions, they created an environment in which no one thought to invest something seriously in our country. And that's why I said I expected him not to answer the word. We have a million examples. Take the example you want. Take the example “Ikee”. When did Ikea come? When was the contract signed? When did they get the building permit? Well, at the time of this government's term. And how many years did it take to try and get into our country? All this, of course, has resulted in an increase in unemployment, not to repeat now hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs, so in particular 400,000 people, and 200,000 jobs have been promised. So we didn't have those 200,000 jobs, but we lost 400,000, or 400,000 people were out of work. And hundreds and hundreds of companies and factories, which we've already talked about, and we're not going to repeat now, but also all the other consequences that we're feeling today. That's why I don't think he should have answered the word. When it comes to the law, it is enough to look at Article 2 of the proposed law, where we see clearly defined goals that we need to achieve by this law, and what is most important here? So, by one, an improvement in the investment environment in Serbia. The investment environment in Serbia has so far brought, let me say, certain results, if we are looking at the period from 2012 to today. However, in order for this growth to be satisfactory, it is necessary to strengthen all those instruments that we have, which are precisely the laws that are passed on to the investment environment. So far, we have adopted several important laws in this regard and in the field of labour law and privatisation and inspection and construction work, and now it is necessary to focus and pass a law directly related to this area, which is precisely this law that we are discussing today. What's more important? Encouraging direct investment to boost economic and economic development. So the increase in investment, both foreign and domestic investments, will greatly improve the country's overall social and economic development. I don't have to mention the social aspect of the growth of the number of employees. Therefore, increases in the number of jobs that are possible only with further growth in direct investments, i.e. investments. Equality of treatment of domestic and foreign investors. What's the big deal here? It's important here to point out that this is an initiative of the economy. So far, the main grudge or one, I say, from the main contaminants, when it comes to current legislation, was precisely an unfair treatment of foreign and domestic investors. This bill equalises that status. It is simple to even the rights, but also the obligations of investors, and it is in that sense something that we can characterise as affirmative, in terms of domestic economy. Enhancing efficiency in providing services to authorities directly related to investments. I would just point out here and soon end, that local self-government in this sense is given the opportunity to encourage, to get as much involved in the investment process as possible. Local self-government assumes a certain level of responsibility and the obligation to be service-oriented in relation to investors, i.e. when it comes to investors. In this way we remove the lack of the current system, but also the climate of misunderstanding of the essential goals of local self-government. The main objectives are just to increase investment and create the best possible investment climate, and this law makes it possible. This is what I'm going to end up with, and I hope we adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36998	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u36999	Chairman, you've injured Article 107. Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker himself was in the third minute and 47 seconds said – Now I will talk about the law. Until then, he was speaking absolutely past the agenda. Not only did he speak beyond the agenda, but he challenged, insulted the MPs of the opposition, contesting the possibility of even speaking, in general, that they were speaking to the people who chose them. What is it, Mr. Arsic, besides a dictatorship in the National Assembly that's spilled a little bit into these benches? We're not allowed to talk. It says – Self-called political organisation, legally registered with 47 committees in Serbia; it bothers you that the Movement and PREKRET is an increasingly serious opposition and besides that you take away... Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37000	Mr. Vesenovicu, I do not forbid you to praise your political party in your presentations, but the violation of the Rules of Procedure is not an exposure, so I could not let you go further as you started. I warned the MP when I estimated that it was necessary to return to the agenda, not if you wanted to. Otherwise, as a fellow MP, I ask you to have the same criteria when you talk about the subject of the agenda and the law, so allow the same right to other colleagues who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's your subjective or objective feeling, we all have a different tolerance threshold. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37001	Mr. Chairman, you have violated Rule 27 in two ways. I'm not going to ask of course to vote, I believe it's an unintended mistake of yours, or a lapus. For the first time because you said, quote – It is normal for you to praise your political party. Where do you see the political party that Mr. Janko Veselinović belongs? It must be formed by the laws of this country. The political party does not form 46 committees, as Mr Vesenovic informed us. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: forty-seven. Forty-seven, I apologize deeply. It doesn't form that, but 10 thousand certified signatures handed over in court and checked out, so the register of political parties, it's a big and big deal. I'd like it to be completed by anyone who thinks they can finish it, but I'll remind you that in such representations in the past and counterfeiting of some signatures, some such party leaders ended up in custody because they forged the signatures. So, there is no political party turning or whatever, there is a group of citizens who can run for the local community within the city of Novi Sad, or Obrovca, or who knows where, but a political party needs a much more serious job. On the other hand, you had to warn, and I know Mr. Arsic, that you are a prominent acquaintance, if not the best knowledge of the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly of all of us 250 MPs and MPs, that someone could not have called on Rule 107, who says that the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and then to pay tribute to Mr. Markovic for why he may have spoken beyond the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37002	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37003	This is Article 106. So that's another one, now I believe Mr. Veselinović's intentional mistake or ignorance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37004	Comrade Babić, I ask you to be patient with your colleague, Veseinović. And you started one political party. You know how difficult that was, even though you had Alexander Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic next to you. So, everyone can see what they want, at least in their work, and it's the people who make the final assessment. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37005	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected members of the association, I am advocating Article 106 of Position 3 and Article 109(1). A member of the 106th says that during the speech, no pitching is allowed. Article 109, paragraph 1 of the third indent, speaks of the President being entitled to be punished by a warning. I'm not asking you to give that notice, but still a little warning to the MPs for the following reasons. As Mr. Markovic spoke, there were a dozen unarticulated screams, very loud from the direction where Janko Veselinovic sat and a ton of that voice I believe that voice belongs to the leader of the association. So, you have to warn him for the simple reason that so loud, unarticulated shouting as he speaks to Mr. Markovic simply ices the blood in the veins, especially to us a little more timid, so we are at risk with a weak heart and a little older to send us with such a cry to some disabled pension. In the future, when he shouts so loudly, as Mr. Markovic speaks, at least warn him a little, you don't have to take the measure from Article 109, but you are obliged at least to warn him, since we are really older at risk of experiencing some heart problems, because we simply fear when someone so loudly yells at us and so incomprehensible, unarticulated and thus confirms the the thesis - sometimes it's better to keep quiet, be smarter to keep quiet than to speak in the way he does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37006	Mr. Risticevic, I know that you have now advertised the Rules of Procedure here for your colleagues, because I know very well that you are not afraid and it is not so easy to scare you. Do you want in the voting day that the Assembly declares itself? (Marian Risticevic, from the city: No. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37007	Article 107, Honorable Chairman, I do not dispute...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37008	We didn't have a single second of normal work of the National Assembly so you could re-advertise Article 107. Rules of Procedure. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: She was now. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure is not about the second infringement of the Rules of Procedure, but about the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37009	You didn't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37010	Come on, here, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37011	So, the Honorable Chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. I do not challenge the MPs of the people to speak their native language, neither. I can translate both in Hungarian and Romanian and in other languages. They translated it into their native language and that's not the problem. The problem is that in their native language they insult other MPs, challenge their right to speak and challenge their right to show when the Rules of Procedure is injured. That's what you're talking about on the phone for that time, that's what you're talking to a colleague up there, that's why I asked you to stop the previous speaker, and I warned you. You did it late, when you finished your phone call, Mr. Arsic. That is why I will respond every time the dignity of the MPs is violated here, and thus the MPs in the National Assembly. On the other hand, I repeat again, I do not forbid them to speak their native language. That's allowed in this assembly. I don't need any translation for that language. I'm just asking you to protect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37012	As for your phone call, I apologize to you. I couldn't take it if I didn't answer the phone, because I got a call from the Chief of Finance of the City of Pogorets to ask for help and advice on how to get the city into possession of two bankruptcy factories. It's two factories I've often mentioned in this room. One is called the Fireman Sugar Factory, the other is called the Fireman Meat Industry. Should I tell you during whose time these two factories went bankrupt, since that's the topic of the agenda? That looks funny to you, not to me. But I couldn't stand it, because I want to do something good for my town of Fireman, as well as for the rest of Serbia. I really apologize for answering the phone for that. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37013	Mr. Chairman, Article 103. I think that it has just been broken Article 103, or misused Article 103, which says that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president. To be honest, I know why the previous speaker is complaining about his mother tongue. He was distracted by the word “association, ” once again used by the previous speaker before him, Mr. Risticevic, but I don’t know why the word “associate” bothers him? When you go to the Association for History, Co-operation and Reconciliation, from Golubic, you see that there is a prominent member even of the council president Janko Veseinović. Then look at the contact address –, therefore, Associations for History, Cooperation and Reconciliation. I don't know how he can get in the way of such a word "association"?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37014	We're moving on with our work. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37015	Thank you. I think that in the current course of the debate there was more politics and the collection of political points by the opposition on the laws that should be spoken of exclusively from the expert side, so I will try to get from the point of view of what we can evenly exchange as an opinion and come to as high-quality solutions as possible, to direct certain suggestions from the SPS parliamentary group. Namely, I will speak exclusively of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers. It is no doubt that, ladies and gentlemen, this is about one legal substitution, a substitution from the Privatisation Agency to the Agency for the Licensing of Banks. Recently, in 2012-2013, this Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, as the only healthy tissue in the complete corpus of bankruptcy, was fiercely attacked, even devalued to the limit to raise the question of its functionality and sustainability. We obviously have one of the topics today that not only is it necessary for the Agency to license bankruptcy managers, but it appears as someone who could also assume certain obligations by the other law of the established institution. I don't want to in any way doubt the need to make bankruptcy proceedings as effective as possible through this discussion. That's one of the basic goals. Speaking of which, it is inevitable and necessary to link the provisions of this law to the law on bankruptcy. Why? Because we are talking about the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, as a creditor with only one focused area, which is that the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants appears as a bankruptcy manager only where the creditor is a company with a majority social capital or that creditor during the duration of the bankruptcy procedure, through a property reconstruction, has acquired that status, which is why a kind of legal regulation is being established over it, or where a bankruptcy manager is now appearing as the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers. Until recently, it was and now it is the Agency for Privatisation, or the Centre for Banking. I have to be completely honest and open to the public, as a lawyer, I've had good experience with the trustees of the bankruptcy manager. Why? Because of the city I come from, the Uzic Business Court was one of the most respectable courts in Serbia, then certainly the best court in Serbia, and so that complex bankruptcy cases, complex bankruptcy cases that he had dealt with very successfully, as with the Holding "Vojin Popovic" from Novi Pazar, which, after the long-term conduct of the bankruptcy procedure, was successfully resolved and thanks to then co-operation with the Privatisation Agency, through creditors who had been very committed to their business, the bankruptcy procedure ended. Why am I saying this? Because it is the obligation of the creditor to take one, to take care of the property of the debtor, to protect it, to ensure that it is increased, that, according to separate claims, i.e. actions for the killing of legal actions and the legal affairs of the debtor, it is returned to the bankruptcy mass by means of full legal affairs, estranged, and should belong to the creditor, in order to achieve the objective of bankruptcy, and this is an even, even settlement of the trustees by preventing the damages of the creditors, especially where it is concerned with intentional damage to the creditors. All of this should now be the obligation of the Agency to license bankruptcy managers, as a bankruptcy manager. To avoid one prejudice, one mistake in criticism, distinguished ministers, I ask you to listen to the next fact that you and how you are aware, because you have proposed such a law. The agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers, as a bankruptcy manager, is now not just in control. Why? Because the Agency for the Licensing of Banks is linked only to enterprises with social capital. The Privatisation Agency did the same. No expert supervision has been carried out against the Privatisation Agency, which is indicated by the provisions of Articles 23 to 26. The bankruptcy law. However, what will cause controversy and what will create problems in practice, please bear in mind and ask you to intervene through the Committee, where there is a danger of a certain form of self-control, or of a certain kind of practical problem, when it comes to a bankruptcy manager who is a character of the Agency for Licensing Banks... Please pay attention to Article 22. The bankruptcy law, which it says - the organisation referred to in Article 1, which is the Privatisation Agency, is obliged to provide three-month reports on the course of the bankruptcy procedure, which should take into account the state of the bankruptcy, the other documentation prescribed by this law and the national standards for the management of bankruptcy in order to carry out statistical data. Dear Minister, there will be a problem here, you must look at it. If the Privatisation Agency had previously submitted a report, it was obliged to submit a report to the Licensing Agency, now who will the Licensing Agency deliver the report to? It would be logical for that three-month report to be delivered to the Department of Economy and I think that's how it should be done. It is a suggestion from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Dear Minister, it must be written, it must be systematized. It has to be regulated in law, so it doesn't appear in wandering. Therefore, there are certain shortcomings here in practice and certain irregularities that must be defined to avoid what may arise as a problem. What we point to is justifiably, is that perhaps, and I hope that you will appreciate the current changes and additions to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants appear as perhaps prematurely. Why? Because it seems to me that it was necessary to first amend the provisions of the bankruptcy law, which follow in December, which we strongly support, unreservedly, but certain norms would then be defined to avoid the absurd situation now, because this is an absurd situation, unfortunately. The other problem that will arise here is the practical application of the law to courts, I mean business courts. Don't mind me saying one personal position, because I personally highly respect you and respect you, as a man who has committed himself to his business, and the personal attitude is the following – given that over 80% of bankruptcy in courts is neither in the Privatisation Agency, nor in the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, there is much less, there are key bankruptcy issues in courts, where actors with certain IDs and bankruptcy managers and trustees and bankruptcy debtors, that I don't talk about bankruptcy bodies. That's where the matter is. My personal position – that the adoption of the bill must always be participated by the Ministry of Justice through the opinion of economic courts. Always, even if he did appear as a proposer, I'm heartbroken about it, and the Ministry of Business is going to propose the laws on bankruptcy managers, as will be the legislator of the bankruptcy agency law. Where will the practical problems be, Your Honor? Practical problems will no doubt be where now the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers appears with that ID at the court. Is there going to be a court-blocking then? He won't. Will there be any delay in the court's work? It will. I must also tell you why he will, and at the same time propose a solution that I believe you will accept. It would be great if the trustees of the bankruptcy officer would stay and not change. What does that mean? As the Privatisation Agency has conducted a complete bankruptcy procedure through the trustee, so the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers through the Trustee will continue the bankruptcy, but then it has to come to something that is procedurally necessary, to draw the line, to make a handover between the Privatisation Agency and the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, to hand over one trustee to the other and to disburse your obligations and to relax the courts on the basis of the report, so that the courts can continue to work uninterruptedly. Otherwise, Your Honor, we'll have a problem. What problem? If the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers changes its trustees, then we come to the situation of issuing special powers, we come to the situation of getting acquainted with the bankruptcy case, we come to a situation when what we have already done is not radically, but it is changing in that sense that the new trustee will have to, before taking over from the old trustee, and how well he sees the situation related to bankruptcy, to try to increase it and to continue the affairs of his predecessor. How, unless he's familiar with a matter that's already figured out and circulated by then? These are objective and practical problems. What causes suspicion, I'll only have two, three minutes left to clear the time for my distinguished colleague Susan Spasojevic, who will talk about the Investment Law, is, when I say "supervision," I want to be precise, the fact that trustees don't lose their ID, they remain creditors. They were also trustees of the Privatisation Agency, and now they will likely be trustees of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers. But there's one problem here now. In the bill of law, you said that the director of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks was given new powers and new obligations. One of them is both the disciplinary procedure and the pronunciation of the disciplinary measure in the disciplinary procedure. There's a danger of self-control. Why? Because I, as director of the Agency for the License of Banks Managers, determine who will be the trustee, and at the same time I am the one who controls the trustees. On the other hand, in addition to this surveillance, I'm in the middle of a disciplinary procedure. It is something that should and may be the reason for the committee to be redefine, to amend powers, to avoid any arguments to any critic of this law, to introduce a system of self-control, or to control itself. Of course, these are all suggestions in order to increase the quality of the proposed law, because it is our goal and how to contribute as part of the government to making this law more effective and efficient in practical application. I would only stick to what I've just said, I wouldn't expand the subject, of course, because I expect that, by respecting these suggestions, you will not comment, they are suggestions, and even if you treat them as observations, they are well-intentioned, that through amendments we will try, and these amendments committees, since we didn't propose them, to try to improve these provisions by quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37016	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37017	Dear Messenger, it is indeed evident that you were in matter and that you know the subject and matter, and that in the best possible way you wanted to contribute to the better law, so that it would have the least difficulty in applying it, and that it contributed to exactly what we want to contribute. I'll give you a few clarifications, and we'll certainly read all the amendments and it'll be a pleasure if we find the need for some of them to implement them. First, your observation, or your observation when it comes to the reports sent by the Privatisation Agency to the Licensing Agency. It's not work reports, it's not control functions, because two agencies can't control each other, it's just work records. The supervision of the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, or tomorrow, the Bank Agency of Serbia, will be conducted by the Ministry of Business, so that we have in this section very much cleared up that two-stageness and we have no problem with it. The other thing, you're absolutely right that without the Justice Department none of this could be realized, but we not only had a legal obligation, the simple legal obligation is one, but active in the preparation of this law and of all the acts that are particularly involved in the bankruptcy proceedings that we are very soon here in the bankruptcy law realized, certainly that the Ministry of Justice participates, because through the courts are the closest to us in the realisation of these affairs. So, already in the working group that is formed participates both judges and bankruptcy directors and all those who practically realize this matter daily. As for your question for article 6 about taking over jobs, it is defined very precisely to assume rights and obligations. So all contracts are taken over and those trustees who have done these jobs, or who are doing these jobs today at the Privatisation Agency, they move on to do these contracts that have been taken over and continue to work at the Agency for the Licensing of Banks, so I don't expect that problem, at least in the first part. There will certainly be cleaning and fixing things later, but it is something that is regularly done in regular procedures through work control, through those positive regulations that we have defined through ethical principles and good business practice. In the end, your entirely justified concern about the director of the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers, whether or not there is no, I don't know where you found it in the law, because the law doesn't say that a disciplinary procedure is conducted by a director, but rather a disciplinary one, so it's cleared. Look, please, there might be some kind of oversight. So, the director of the Agency for Licensing Bank Managers, or tomorrow's Bank Agency of Serbia, does not have the authority to conduct a disciplinary procedure, and that's how we solved it. And to conclude, at the very beginning you said how important the Business Court in Užica had important bankruptcys, how it has good practice and how it works, and at one point you mentioned how important the support and bankruptcy centre was, that is, the Centre for the Bank of the Privatisation Agency. During that period that you're talking about, the Director of the Bank of the Privatisation Agency was just Miss Vazura, who is sitting here with us today, and the Director of the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants. So I thank you for all of this, because it's the best practice and example of what we're talking about and against all of these stories that it's going to be party or other employment. We have important experts. The economy doesn't mean parties, not the left center, not the right one, not anything. You follow the rules that dictate the market or you don't. It's the only criterion based on which we're going to make a choice of personnel in the future. I thank you for your suggestions, and we're still open to every proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37018	Thank you. A colleague, Neđo Jovanovic, only if you continue the debate in principle. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the site: Just one minute of clarification. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37019	Thank you. For the sake of proper understanding, the delivery of the report by now the Agency for the Licensing of Banks is not for the purpose of professional supervision and has nothing to do with professional supervision. She has a statistical element, but she needs to know who she's putting up with, and that here, Minister, doesn't say. There has to be a norm, so I said it had to be normized to be submitted to the Ministry of Justice in order to understand each other better. Second, the Director of the Agency shall participate in the disciplinary procedure by making a decision to delete the bankruptcy manager from the directory and withdraw the licence and after the disciplinary procedure. So he's part of a disciplinary procedure. As soon as it's a solution, it's part of it. Legally they wanted, they didn't want, he's part of it, because he's the crown of what the disciplinary procedure has as an epilogue. You can interpret whatever it is, but he's making a solution that's due to the disciplinary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37020	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Zeljko Sertic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37021	We will certainly resolve this record through amendments to the law on bankruptcy, and I fully agree with you that this must all be done in detail. That's why I said this is a package of laws, one now, one at the latest in December of the month, just to meet all of our plans that we've defined. There's only a simple discipline here, but we can talk about it, and it's more disciplined than that. So, the disciplinary council is withdrawing the license, and the director is just conducting the process of deleting it from the records. It's not the same thing after all, but in any case we can clarify it a little more precisely at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37022	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that there were too many doubts about this law, even at some point and a kind of unserious debate, because we still have three laws that are very important to the Serbian economy, three laws that repair the investment environment, three laws that mean increased liquidity of the Serbian economy and three laws that will mean a more efficient Serbian economy. Therefore, the very approach to these laws seems to me, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia, to be more serious. The government, the minister, the ministry accepts all the suggestions it has on this law. We are all ready to make this law a law that will significantly improve Serbia's economic picture and that will mean a lot for new jobs in some future period, for a better standard of citizens. The fact that it is so is the fact that the government is behind this law and has taken full responsibility when it comes to this law. So Serbia's citizens should be told clearly -- the situation in the Serbian economy, in the Serbian economy, is getting better, and when it comes to deficits, the situation has significantly improved compared to the previous year. In the first seven months, we have only 24 billion deficits in the Serbian budget, meaning the difference between income and expenditure. Last year, there were about 121 billion in those seven months. Of course, it is a success, above all, for the citizens of Serbia, for those who paid fiscal consolidation by reducing wages and pensions, but also for the government's success, because the good portion of the new revenues are revenues from public enterprises that have done much better in this period and in these last year. So, generally, things are better in the budget, the macroeconomic picture is better. We have the fact that we've come out of recession, we have the fact that GDP will be close to 1% compared to the negative growth foreseen in some previous period. We also have the fact that we have a very serious growth in industrial production. In August 2015, this is the latest data, compared to August 2014, of a incomplete 13% growth in industrial production compared to the average, so the average of 2014 in August we had a growth of over 5%. This best shows how tough Serbia's economy is, how much room there is for promotion and these laws, new investments, new jobs, new jobs to open this investment law, in any case it will help, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also entrepreneurs where the accent is in these laws. So there's room for optimism, but there's no room for quite certain relaxation. Because without more serious GDP growth, the question is whether these reforms that have been implemented so far and which give good results will be sustainable. We need much more growth in investment, both state and private, both foreign direct investment, investment and domestic entrepreneurs. It is very good that this investment law finally balances foreign and domestic investors and gives them the same chance, the same chance of progress, the same chance of developing their jobs. I would like to say that, although some colleagues have expressed doubts about the size of investments in the Serbian economy, that at least since this government took over, that is, since the Serbian Progressive Party assumed power and responsibility for leadership, the economy has been growing. That from a catastrophic level in 2012, we had a steady growth and what we expect in 2015 is close to 1.5 billion euros, that it is something that is the desired amount of foreign investment, but it is understood that this amount of foreign investment is in a longer series of years to achieve much more serious growth than we currently have. What is a big problem is the fact that we have a small amount of capital investment and that in this field we have to do much more work but that the budget options in this year and in the previous year were not great and that, with foreign companies entering, with GDP growth of course, and budget revenues. I am sure that the government will pay much more attention to this issue and that we will come into a situation where it amounts to 4-5% of GDP, which should be at some level of our country's development. What's important, as I said in the Investment Act, the government has stepped behind this law, the government has taken responsibility, the government has taken the initiative. It is a good message to me from this law, unlike some colleagues who believe it to be some kind of centralisation, the SNS and this government have received great trust from citizens and citizens expect those promises to be carried out. Who will if the government doesn't? Who has more authority in this country than the government? Who will be able to attract more investors than the Government? So there are very good institutes that define incentives, define criteria, define urgency. A series of sublegal acts, a regulation will be passed, everything will be done, everything will be transparent. We will not be in a situation as it has been so far that ministers, I say, willfully or in agreement with the investor decide which investment is a priority, which is not. We will have much greater responsibility because we will have economic advice that will decide on these investments. We'll have a government that will stand behind those incentives that are prepared. It's something that's good that I think deserves praise, not criticism. When it comes to financial restructuring, wishes are one thing, opportunities are another. In 2011, this law was written in good faith, in order to avoid as many bankruptcys as possible. Unfortunately, he failed to respond, I'd say, to his own purpose. This law brings a series of promotions, but what's the problem with the law itself, that's volunteering. The banks themselves decide whether or not they want to enter this process. It's a mistrust that exists between economic operators, between banks and businesses, between banks and businesses, but perhaps mistrust, a civilization problem and a civilization phenomenon. That's gonna have to get over it. The government has brought a number of good institutes. In this case, it should be possible for Serbia's economy to be more liquid, as it has many problems in terms of liquidity. A large number of loans are delayed. The delays are moving around to pay banks for even two years, and estimated for some 3.7 billion euros are problematic when it comes to the collection of these loans. The bankruptcy law should say what is important to know Serbian citizens, over 650 companies are now in the Privatisation Agency. This job is not done properly. There's no real insight. There's no real control. Oversight is poor and this law itself will improve the efficiency of the entire Serbian economy, as it is very serious business entities that can contribute significantly to growth, important to contribute to GDP growth. So all three laws, ladies and gentlemen, are very important, very important. I see this as entering another phase of reform. So fiscal consolidation and strengthening the revenue side and leaving space to be created through new jobs as well as through new investments where these investments, new jobs, and to rationalise public administration, rationalise the state administration, because only by opening new jobs can we count on one part of the public sector employees to be transferred to the private sector. I invite you to support these laws anyway. I call on the minister, and he himself expressed that will and desire to accept as many amendments as possible and not to stand in the reform process, because this is the only way and way to ensure a better standard for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37024	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37025	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the reasons for the adoption of the investment law, on page 19 of the materials we received in the procedure, it is concluded that agencies dealing with public interest in the state of Serbia, in the previous time period, and respecting the legal standards for which they are intended to function have made economic development in the Republic of Serbia not satisfactory. It is also found in the material that there is no coordination between institutions that have a confidential obligation and that coordination does not exist between all levels of government which has led to the problem and in the preparation of investment and investment itself. Today, the minister in an exposé that lasted practically an hour says what you told us in the material, and that sounds like this, yes, one part of the state administration is still a bureaucratized state administration that cannot understand that it has become a service in providing services to investors, and we want to change that by this law. The crucial factor in any realization is the idea that you have a definition and that you have a plan. When you have a definition and a plan, then it's on a level of practical exercise in logic functioning the economy. When it comes to growth and development today, when it comes to functioning, then all speakers in this Assembly, and often try to give their definition of growth and development, and based on my personal experience, we can practically realize that when they define symptoms and problems, many think that they actually defined the solution and gave us a way to come to that solution. When we talk about the Investment Law today, we are actually talking about investing, that is, growth and business development. Through the growth and development of businesses, we actually want to raise two key macroeconomic parameters, GDP growth and employment levels, and this is said in the proposal for a investment law. In fact, we define here the two-part objectives, from the coordination of institutions of public importance, which should be more effective in doing their job and in developing which involves the growth of three key economic parameters, as you say, you from the Ministry of Economy, increasing and increasing investment levels, increasing and increasing exports and increasing and increasing competition. At the same time, you define the mission of this law and say that the mission of this law is regional development and the definition of a better and more efficient image of the Serbian state in the area of economy. In fact, you define economic goals as a non-economic mission. When you talk about this law today, we are talking about the theory of growth and development. There's a thousand pages. We can talk about the growth of the national economy, the growth and development of large and small enterprises, the growth and development of the branch, are numerous theories. The general theory of growth, Chandler's contribution, the contributions of Chandler's contribution and many other theorists talk about growth. The National Assembly, the Government, cannot take care of the growth of each individual company. This is done by the management of the company, but the National Assembly and the Ministry, in every country, takes care of the rules on how one national economy must function. With this law that is trend, we are changing the environment that works in the state of Serbia and we are trying to adapt it. The investment law essentially consists of three parts and concerns three groups of key issues. The first group are institutions that have so far performed an investment function. It is clear that some institutions have to endure changes and these are primarily institutions concerning the National Regional Development Agency, the Foreign Investment Agency. It's supposed to be objective here. Since 2008, and several years in the next period of time, this period, when fiscal derivatives, or financial derivatives, are never cheaper on the global financial market. When you have an incredible historical precedent, that the price of a financial derivative is zero, it means that there is a high degree of instability in investment, both foreign and domestic. If you have instability, the Serbian financial market and the Serbian market, however you talk about it, whatever trunk you take, are in fact small markets that are not recognizable. This is a problem to spot from a large number of investors in our national market. If you have a problem with the global plan, where you have a problem with the financial global market and if you have an even bigger problem that manifests in undefined relations and unclear legal procedures, and you add to that what is called self-satisfaction civil servants, then you have a problem with investment. The essence of this law by me is in the first members, Article 4 and Article 5 where it is said – yes, the state of Serbia is a free country where you can invest and for the first time it is said that foreign and domestic investors, investors, capital owners, are even. Article 5, something we all dream of, everyone who's lived too long in a system where you didn't have legal certainty, we say that, yes, there are no extraordinary legal remedies that can lead to this on the basis of cargo contracts, that your property can no longer be yours. You know, when you operate in an economy where planning is the basis of everything, then you have no stability, you have fear. Foreign investors, of course, should invest in Serbian real estate and Serbian property, foreign investors have the right to withdraw their assets, i.e. their capital in whatever form they want. Another important area is regional growth and the development of the Republic of Serbia. It concerns members from 17th to 25th where we are trying to define the regional development of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia today consists of a large number of municipalities and all these municipalities are working to attract both domestic and foreign investors. It can practically be found that in Serbia today there is a market for municipalities in attracting foreign investment and that is a whole new concept, a new competition, a struggle between different market segments that represent municipalities in the process of attracting investment. We should be realistic and say, yes, in Serbia, investments are attracted and investments are going to those regions that are on road infrastructure corridors. They use, of course, their natural advantage, but it is a real fact that very little space is left to local self-government that they can differentiate their offer to investors compared to other municipalities in Serbia, when you have such clear defined principles, macroeconomic functioning and the principles of funding of the local community. It is not disputed that this law will contribute to a different way of functioning and the importance of local administration, but it should also be said that only the moment, as Minister Vujovic announced, when the Law on the financing of local administrations is different and when we all dream of from local communities, to achieve fiscal decentralisation, then the responsibility of attracting foreign investment, domestic investors will be in local communities and practically they will be able to create their completely different market conditions that will be competitive in attracting domestic or foreign investors, however. All the big companies used to be small. Every small company that's become big had its own development. All small businesses have a problem, first of all, in resources. Large businesses have an advantage in the area of production, large enterprises have an advantage in the area of market placement, finance and investment, managing key advantages in emergency economic situations and not emergency economic situations. Big businesses are doing better. In situations where you have an emergency situation that is not economical, a large company is also doing better, but a large company wants to be a monopoly. A small company has a small problem getting into a branch and that's a normal economic problem. A small company must have no problem, non-economic entry into the branch. It regulates the Assembly, it regulates the ministry. Small businesses are the essence of Serbia's development. A small-scale company employs a large number of people. A small company brings key, in new projects, development of functioning, new ideas, regardless of whether they are ideas on the national market, the global market in Serbia, mostly copying products on the side. Small businesses in Serbia are family companies, small businesses in Serbia must be grown. There is no possibility of not growing small businesses and creating a competitive advantage, large businesses in Serbia are growing and progressing. The economic situation in Serbia is certainly what it is. The economic situation is that it has to be different. When in Serbia, the National Assembly and the Ministry, it gets a proposal, when the National Assembly gets a proposal from the ministry, we only expect a few things from you, that all economic laws be simple, that all economic laws be clear and transparent and that all economic laws support competition. Without supporting competition, Serbia today has no chance of progress and moving on. We can talk about different models, but no one in Serbia today should forget Schumpert's model of decommissioning a system that says every small company should become big. This law is on the trail. The Investment Law certainly monitors and contributes crucially to the functioning and progress of Serbia's improvement, and should not pay attention to comments, facts, discussions on the Investment Law, lasts ten hours. Investment is a very important thing. We differ, political parties differ because investment is the essence of functioning not only of the economy, but of a single society. Supporting such SNS laws is actually behind the idea of the Prime Minister and the ministers who pass such economic laws. These laws are certainly better than what we had in the previous period of time. The time is ahead to show how good they are. Of course, the trust of the SNS parliamentary group is immeasurable to the ministers and the government, and we will certainly vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37026	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37027	Thank you. Dear Chairman, representatives of the Ministry of Industry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will talk about a proposal for a law on investment that is certainly one of the most important laws in the reform set of laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, primarily for the purpose of regulating investment matter, which is a prerequisite and basis for improving the investment environment and business environment in the Republic of Serbia. Why was it necessary to pass such a law? Well, above all, for reasons to support the government of the Republic of Serbia's efforts to provide domestic and foreign investors with better conditions for investment, as since the government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic, investors both have significantly better treatment in Serbia, which shows the level of foreign direct investment in Serbia that amounted to as much as 600m euros in the first half of this year, while in 2014, we ended up with 1.2 billion euros in foreign direct investment. However, in order for Serbia to achieve even better economic growth, it is necessary to increase these investments and that is exactly what this law will do with investment and assistance. What shows that the government of the Republic of Serbia is headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic is working hard to improve conditions for investors is investments that have been realised since the formation of this government, such as the Henkel factory in Krusevec, which has invested 21m euros, which has opened 220 new jobs. Johnson Electric Company in Nis, which operates in more than 30 countries and has over 30,000 employees around the world who have opened the Nis plant with 20m euros in investment, 250 new jobs have been opened. The "Cooper Standard" auto-industry in Sremska Mitrovica, which is part of the "Cooper Standard Group" that operates in 19 countries has as many as 25 000 workers where $25m and 200 workers are invested, and another 600 workers are planned to be employed by the end of 2016. The production hall of the Finnish company PKC in Smederev, which employs 370 people at the start, and employs as many as 1,500 people. The Svarovski company's production facilities were opened in Subotica, where 200 people were employed in 2014, and in this year, a new plant for 383 workers was opened by the headmaster. The Kalceonia factory with facilities in Sombor, Subotica, Mali Bajmik opened, while this year Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic also opened a plant in Ruma where there are currently over 300 employees and where more than 2,000 people are working in the open-air facilities of this factory, and another 2,000 employees are planning to be employed. Also, there are floods affecting Krupanja and gins and Turkey's textile factory where 120 workers were employed. Here, based on these objectives proposed by the Investment Law, it meets the direct incentive of investment in the Republic of Serbia, which will result in strengthening economic and economic development, which will certainly contribute to the growth of employment and growth of the economy that we really need. The proposed law aims to enable the coordination of all levels of government in investment investments, thus providing the investor with a more efficient investment-related service, where many legal procedures will be accelerated, at least investors will no longer waste time of unnecessary bureaucracy and will be able to do so themselves in a large number of regulations, which in some cases has prevented them from investing in our country. The aim that this law fulfils is also the equality of domestic and foreign investors, as the proposed law guarantees equal investment freedom for both domestic and foreign investors and guarantees equal rights to both domestic and foreign investors in the exercise of the rights arising from this law, which will certainly have a positive impact on the increase in investments both domestic and foreign. The proposed law also provides for the education of the Council for Economic Development and Development Agency of Serbia whose task will be to help potential investors to invest more easily, to help them avoid the forest of red tape that often prevents them from investing in Serbia and to enable the implementation of the objectives of the proposed Investment Law in general. What makes a significant contribution to the quality of the Investment Law itself is a fact based on the best standards of international investment law, especially in the areas of investment freedom and investor rights. In the spirit of this law and creating a better climate for investors, the government of the Republic of Serbia recently concluded that the town of Novi Sad has transferred property rights to about 37 hectares of building land located right by the highway and which represents an extremely significant investment potential for the town of Novi Sad. On this occasion, I would like to thank, on behalf of the Mayor of Novi Sad, Mr Milos Vučević, on my personal behalf, and on behalf of the citizens of Novi Sad, Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and his cabinet associates, as well as the Minister of Industry, Mr Sertic and his associates, for allowing us to transfer such land which, as I said, represents an extremely significant investment potential, because they had heard about the needs of the town of Novi Sad, which certainly did not have previous authority and because the city of Novi Sad had a building land in an exceptional location which I can freely say is a role for a better future. Also, I would also like to thank them for helping us with the negotiations we are having with a very important investor who is now in the final phase and who is about to invest in the part of the mentioned land that has been transferred to us, and what has certainly given us the government of the Republic of Serbia. In doing so, this investor will really hire a large number of our citizens and certainly start an economy in Novi Sad. I believe that the proposed investment law will create conditions for a better investment climate in Serbia, that the effects of this law will increase the number of investments, that economic activity will increase and directly stimulate the creation of new, domestic and foreign companies, which certainly always results in the creation of new jobs and the emerging economic development of our country. For this very reason, I will support this law, and I suggest you all do the same for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37028	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. He's not here. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37029	The chairman, co-workers of the minister, since the minister is gone, what is indisputable after all today's discussions, is that Serbia is the country in which investments are needed, a country that is open to all those who want to do business here and who see Serbia as a country where they can make a profit. The domestic legislation successfully creates a suitable investment climate for investment and Serbia both in one way and another shows that it has a serious approach to attracting investment. The proposal for a investment law makes it even more favourable, closer and clearer conditions for attracting investors and those already operating in Serbia to invest further, but also for those who are thinking about whether Serbia is exactly where they should invest. In addition, by adopting the investment law, many other opportunities will be opened, primarily for more investment in economic recovery for new jobs, for everything that is Serbia's priority at this point. One of the preconditions for the smooth development of the state is exactly what these laws will affect, and this is a comprehensive functioning and development of the economy, where the development of the economy is conditioned both by investments and by domestic and foreign investors, but also by including the state in international goods and financial flows. In Serbia, there is great potential for new investments, but the fact itself is not enough for someone to decide to invest directly in Serbia. It is also necessary that the business environment and administration are ready to respond quickly and efficiently to all requirements and interests of interested investors. That is exactly what the law provides for the establishment of an economic team and a development agency with the task of attracting investors, controlling and monitoring investment, which has not been the case so far. There was no information on who investors were, or what investments were, or which subsidies were given, nor was there an analysis of the effects of the subsidies given. However, in addition to the adoption of this law, how high the investment will be and how many investors will come into Serbia in the first place, depends on both the way and the speed of application of all these laws that we have adopted in the last few years, on the speed of implementation of structural reforms, on the dynamics of the privatisation process and on the problem of large systems, such as. ‘Smederevo Iron’. As far as the subsidy is concerned, and on this subject for a little while longer in my discussion, I am convinced that many of us think that subsidies are not in themselves a good solution, but in a country where the economy is as it is in Serbia, where investments, where new jobs are needed, are simply subsidies as a way of attracting investors and one of the most acceptable ways and simply inevitable. That is why, given that so far and in the previous period, when these subsidies were granted to investors, the results were weak, should also work to improve the business environment in Serbia, to strengthen the institutions of the rule of law, to reform the economy, and gradually to make the state stronger, and also to reduce subsidies as a means of attracting investors, and in fact to invest in our agriculture, in our science, culture, technological development, etc. I think that, despite everything that we need to invest, despite the fact that subsidies are just one of the most acceptable means of attracting investors, it is necessary to take care of and whom these subsidies are given and for which investments are needed, because we need investors, but that it is not at a very high price. Given the experience we have from the previous period when the subsidisation of investments is at stake, we know that Serbia was broad-handed without giving expected or almost no results, i.e. it did not attract some larger number of serious investors and larger investments. It was not uncommon for investors who received subsidies in money to leave Serbia without realising investments, without any explanation and without meeting their agreed obligations. I think it really needs to apply another practice now and before granting subsidies to determine what the effects of certain investments are, who are investors to which subsidies are given, whether they can send the investment to the end and at all what that investment is about, to repeat, that we do not again come into the situation that we had in some previous period. Article 13 The investment law provides the possibility for local self-government, more specifically local and economic development offices and investment support, to decide on the way, the height and scope of incentives for investors, and that is fine, and we support that, that local self-governments are precisely the ones who decide what kind of incentives they will give to invest in the level of locals. But again, I am going back to what experience we have from the previous period and which is not very great, and yet this bill gives one greater amount of authority to local self-government, as well as any doubt that will certainly arise about how these local self-governments act when it comes to investors. I think it should have been assumed that the responsible persons and precisely those authorities in charge of supporting investments have one kind of obligation to report to at least once a year to the competent ministry or the Development Agency on how they used subsidies, who they were giving them to, because we have one member here, I think it's 12, where local self-government is supposed to keep records of who investors are and what investments are. Why should we not provide that these local self-governments and keep records of what subsidies were given, how many subsidies were given, as the minister said in his presentation what problem he faced when he took office, that there was no record, that there was no information on who investors were, what investments and what incentives were given to these investors? That is why the SPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment that concerns this topic right now, to the obligation of local self-government, or bodies in charge of supporting investments, to have the obligation to submit a once-a-year report on these particulars that I was talking about. I think it's necessary and it's perfectly normal for the ministry to have one kind of control over the work of those organs. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, I think they're very modest, almost symbolic. I don't know what the reason was for the sanctions, or punishments to be so modest. In what sense are they modest? In the sense that when we compare the level of punishment with the consequences that the Authority, if it does not comply with this law, can cause. Only in that sense do I think the punishments should have been more severe. Also, I'm going back to our experience. I think there should have been some kind of punishment for investors. It is true that the contract is signed, that they are bound by the contract, but that some kind of sanctions for non-fulfilment of obligations should also be provided, the failure to complete the investment, the failure to fulfil the contractual obligations, etc. In the end, I would also agree with a colleague who spoke in the morning part of the debate, that it might be too long to pass sublegal acts, if we have in mind the seriousness of the subject we're talking about, but I'm saying, again, you probably had in mind why that is. You probably had some reasons. Finally, just to say that Serbia's goal as a serious and responsible country, first to its citizens, must be to create a business environment, one condition for a fast economy, for Serbia to become competitive with the countries in the environment. Thus, there will be new investments, higher inflows and investor arrivals, a larger inflow of money into the budget, increased wages and pensions. That's exactly what we're trying to do. With a developed and strong economy, Serbia is becoming a strong state, just as we want Serbia to be. As the mandated SNS representative said, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37030	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37031	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, this bill should be passed because the proposed law provides for a series of measures that will improve the environment and attract foreign and domestic investors to invest in our country. Unlike the previous governments that provided subsidies only to foreign investors, the SNS will allow this law to give subsidies to domestic investors, which is often suggested by our businessmen, and this way I meet them and we send a clear message that they do not have to go to other markets and that they are looking for a more favourable investment environment. Of course, they will now be able to feel desirable in their country. This law provides for full transparency in relation to the financing of domestic and foreign investors from the budget, which protects the state interest, and will at any moment be able to see who it is and how much funds it has received from the state register. The Investment Act enables local self-government to encourage investment instruments, care for existing investments and their expansion, the number and total value of investment and the quality of investors, apply standards of a favourable business environment and make decisions on measures to promote the competitiveness of local self-government in attracting local investments, as well as the establishment of transparent mechanisms of permanent communication and co-operation with the economy, simplifying local investment procedures, development of municipal and local economic infrastructures, as well as the regulation of local reliefs and incentives based on local strategic documents. This law also allows local self-governments, that when it comes to investments of local importance, if investors ask them to do so, they educate project teams that will provide the investor with professional assistance with their knowledge and experience, all in order to provide timely and efficient investment and ensure that they receive the necessary documents, data and information needed by the investor as soon as possible. The adoption of this law will allow for the establishment of a Council on Economic Development and the Development Agency of Serbia, two very important bodies when it comes to realising investments and attracting foreign but certainly domestic capital. The Council for Economic Development will, within its competence, monitor the situation in the areas of investment and economic development, publicly promote the objectives of economic development, monitor the implementation and decide on the allocation of funds, all in accordance with this law and the law governing the control and allocation of state aid. Some of the competences of the Development Agency, among other things, will be to cooperate with state authorities and organisations and public authorities, territorial autonomy and local self-government bodies, to monitor the application of this law and to propose appropriate measures, to participate in the preparation of programmes and projects of economic and regional development, to analyse and provide information and information for the purpose of improving economic and regional development policy, to carry out accreditation of regional development agencies, to implement programmes and projects aimed at improving export activities and business operators, and to carry out programmes and projects with a view to improving the position, activities and competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as business entrepreneurs, to keep a record of investors of particular importance and investors of regional importance and to propose and coordinate and conduct strategic marketing activities in Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. The analysis of other options to address the problems identified in the field of investment realization has established that there is a need for better coordination of public authority holders at all levels of government and in the process of preparing investments, as well as during and after their realisation. Decisions containing this law, which relate to the classification of investments by importance, the establishment of project teams, the conclusion of agreements and special investment contracts, the education of the Council for Economic Development and the defined co-ordination of roles, the Serbian Development Agency, should create conditions for more efficient investment realisation and the promotion of multiple economic and financial effects. Consequently, in order to improve the situation in the area of investment and to establish a stable and sustainable system, which is similar to the market economy and contributes to certainness in business, a system-based modern, efficient and reform law on investment must be adopted and, of course, the SNS will vote in favour of the adoption of this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37032	The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37033	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers with fellow Members, has been the very fact that the debate on this law has been going on for 10 hours in support of the Law on Investments being one of the most likely most important laws we have discussed lately in the National Assembly. To tell you the truth, if it weren't for this law, I probably wouldn't be persistent to wait to speak right now in this matter, I would say, in the evenings, but I must also be an MP of the Bosniak People's Party, not a regional party, and a party of the minority national community to say a few words about this law from that corner, and certainly to say a few general notes about this law, although I will deliberately cut that part out of solidarity to fellow MPs who have been present here all day long with debates, various replicas, political discussions, inappropriate for such an important law, but what are you going to do is all part of parliamentary struggle. Let me say, this bill aims to improve the investment environment of the country, to encourage direct investment to strengthen economic and economic development, employment growth and overall social improvement. The analysis of the problem, which arises during the realisation of investments, found that there is a need for better coordination of public authority holders at all levels of government in the process of preparing investments, as well as during and after their realisation. The key thing, I would say, for the environment in which we adopt this law is to obtain EU candidate status, because this has increased reliability and business stability, and this has been a signal to investors that Serbia is in a good direction to strengthen competitiveness and predictability. The government's definition, which was formed nearly two years ago, is not two years ago, but between a year and a half and two, irrelevantly, led by Mr. Vukic, is attracting foreign investment, primarily direct foreign investment, and according to data from the Belgrade Economic Institute alone this year alone, there were more than a billion euros in foreign investment in our country. The billion euros are seen in various cities and municipalities across Serbia. I have noted from the presentation of my colleagues here, I do not have all the information, that it is the opening of a number of jobs, it is thousands of jobs in Indjia, Odžaki, Nis, Subotica, Obrenovac, Kruševec, Smedereva, Sombor, Rumi, Kruskovac, Leskovac, etc. Therefore, there are no discussions that no new jobs have been opened and there have been no foreign direct investments. However, I must say as an MP for the Bosniak People's Party, which operates in the Sandzak municipalities, that there has been almost no investment in that area of our country. It's not since yesterday, it's been a practice for many years and it's, I'd say, the practice of all the governments so far, with honorable exceptions. During the government of Boris Tadic and to say the regime results were devastating. I can personally say that, among other things, I resigned then as Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, because I was dissatisfied with the government's work and the government's relationship to the Sanjay municipalities and, I say, by not creating an ambience to make investments in these municipalities. I know that someone, perhaps a minister, will come forward, so say - the state is not investing, these are private investments, foreign investments. However, we as the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are obliged to provide all municipalities and cities with approximately equal opportunities and opportunities. There is the role of the state, and no one can deny me and convince me that's not the case. However, you can't expect one municipality passing the highway, for example. Tutin municipality, which we don't even have a regional route to, what would be normal if at this time, in the 21st century, we had these municipalities have equal chances. Of course they don't. When I talk about investing in the Sanjak municipalities, I can say that something was done in Novi Pazar and partly in Prijepolje, and it was only because the minister in all these governments was Mr Ljajic, so he did it himself. No matter what I am no longer in the same party with him and no matter what, I must say that this is the result of his political engagement and his work in the Serbian government. But Novi Pazar is not Sandzak. What about Tutin, what about Shadow, where all indicators of macroeconomic policy, and let's just take the unemployment rate, are almost twice as high as the average in Serbia? We must bear in mind that economic rights, too, I would say the most important human rights, because without economic rights there are no others, there is no other human rights. I must say that young people from the Sanjay municipalities are located in Western Europe, in Germany, in the squares and parks of Western Europe, waiting for any job to be found, because in their municipalities they can't find any job and there's no hope of finding it. I expect this government, and I supported this government and the previous one led by Dacic, and I made it very clear that I was dissatisfied with the work of the government headed by DS. Unfortunately, however, I cannot say that something new has been done during these two governments. Yes, the environment has changed, but we're still hoping there will be some investments. We believe that. Citizens of these municipalities rightly expect and have the right to equal chances. That's why I'm taking this opportunity and I've been waiting all day to talk. I think that the role of minority party MPs is not, regardless of our membership, in which we are a parliamentary club, in which we are coalitions, we have our own specific position and I don't think it's a role just to praise either the coalition partner or the prime minister, no matter who it is, but to say what is true and to fight for those citizens who have chosen us, whose interests we represent here, but only what we need to do, no matter whose harm and just tell the truth. So I am convinced, I hope, I appeal, that Sandzak is part of Serbia with its specificities, its national community, in this case Bosniaks, have the right to be equal with other citizens. In these municipalities and Serbs, as a majority people share that fate with us, and on behalf of all citizens of these municipalities, I ask that it be made possible, if a special programme is needed, because this is how waiting for a gap between developed and undeveloped municipalities is growing and I simply don't know where it will take us and in what year the situation will be in these municipalities. If it weren't for Western Europe and leaving that youth, believe that there would be hunger in such parts of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37034	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37035	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, we are finishing today's principle debate on three very important laws. I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said, but we must certainly bear in mind that this is just a continuation in the set of laws that simply create this positive climate. We keep talking about the positive climate, and the positive climate doesn't make one law, it doesn't make one decision, it doesn't make one act, it's exactly a set of laws that this government does in its work, of course, with the help of the Assembly. The laws are proposed by the Government, but a decision on whether laws will be adopted and in what form will be adopted directly by the Assembly, or we in the National Assembly. We have space and this law to change over certain amendments. Of course, in the day of debate, something is likely to change. This law, I will not agree with certain colleagues, it is not SNS law, this is the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is the law of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is the law of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this law will be passed and implemented accordingly. Decisions under this law will be made by the Government elected by the National Assembly, and that same National Assembly has been elected by citizens, and therefore citizens are those who decide who and how to invest, to whom investments will be directed. Who will sit in government directly depends on what the citizens say and that is the most honest and the most measured. Accordingly, all these decisions that this law makes to the government are actually given to citizens. This law clearly defines that the decision-maker is the Government and, of course, is the most honest and fairest. It will not be hidden behind some agencies, behind certain groups, but directly decided by the government, decides the Economic Council, which will be again clearly formed by ministers and the most professional people in the government. These are not SNS ministers, they are citizens and the Republic of Serbia. What's still very important to say, I agree with my colleague here, should insist on the truth. The truth about the work of this government, the work of the previous government and the work of all governments is just one. I fully understand the opposition that it is not good for them to mention what they were doing in the previous period, but the question is whether they were thinking about how it was for the citizens while they were doing what they were doing. I come from the town of Sapca, where, unfortunately, in the past 15 years of companies that existed, I have started with the chemical "Zorca", via "Mepritlastika", "Inga", "7 July" and not to list further, unfortunately for these 15 years, only traces remain. It is simply true and whatever anyone is saying, he can say it, but the truth is also known by the citizens of Sapca, and in the case of Serbia's economy, the citizens of Serbia know it. I'll say it again, I've said it before. The word "tycoon" was introduced into use in Serbia by the appearance of DS, before that, the average Serb did not know what the word "tycoon" meant. It's just the truth, anyone who can't get up to say it, but whatever they say, it's just like that. By creating this law, it will finally stand in the way of corruption, which opposition representatives are also calling on and all that matters, essentially for this law, is relying on two key positions, which is that the main indicators are whether or not the investment will pass. It is not whether it comes from abroad or is a domestic investor, nor whether it is a godfather or a brother, or a friend with the Prime Minister, with a minister, with an MP or anyone. The basic indicator will be clear programmes and how many employees this investment brings. Everything is very clear and very transparent and what this government cannot object to, it is that through this law, every decision that is made will be made available to everyone. I understand the fear the opposition have because in their time everything was done in the shadows and nothing was known. The decisions were made by individuals, not by the government and not by the system, and for that reason by the government, the decisions made by the ministry, or by the minister, or by the economic council for development and by the government, together with the economic council, will certainly be in the interest of the citizens. The miracle that the opposition mentions when it comes to this law can only refer to a miracle how they managed to direct all these investments in previous years in such a way that the result of the closure of existing businesses is not the opening of new ones. From the point of view of the citizen of Šapca, I can only say that we can't wait for this law to start with the application and try to take advantage of the benefits that this law gives and which it insists literally regionalisation, namely the creation of conditions that every region that it wants and which has conditions for investors to use in the best possible way, and that the ministry and government are the service of this region and help it to realize that the investor that appears in their own, or in their area, helps in the best possible way. All those who think well of their citizens, and I hope they're all in this room, should uphold this law. All those who do not support this law, support what has happened years ago, and what has happened years ago, we all know very well, and I will not repeat it. In Voting Day, all those who think well of Serbia vote for this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37036	Thank you. Here you go. National MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37037	I think this was really inappropriate and unnecessary tonight, when this debate comes down to a civilized debate, that now, in a place where you don't need it, you mention DS. First, you could say what the word "tycoon" means. What does the word “tycoon ” mean? Come on, I'll read what it means. The word "tycoon" is derived from the Japanese word "tycoon", and this Japanese word is of Chinese origin, and literally means – great master, prince or supreme commander. It's applied informally in this dictionary of ours and you use it very superficially by connecting DS to it. Another piece of information. U.S. President Abraham Lincoln was called “a tycoon, ” where this term spread to the business world where it is used today. Some today quote Abraham Lincoln and his wisdom, calling for tycoons. You're proud of it sometimes. But if we talk about tycoons in Serbia, so you know when they were born, with a real change in the social system and a transition from socialism to capitalism and in the 1990s and these initial accumulations, which were primarily carried out in hyper inflation, in wars and people who were rich in wars that were fought in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. What did DS have to do with all this then? Of course, in 2000, they brought the birth of some tycoons, as they are now called, but Mr. Birmanchevic, I don't know what you could use in the argument that you used today. I don't think this leads to the improvement of the law that you've been talking about, and it doesn't even talk about the truth, because, first of all, in the 1990s, they've opened the process, and later and next year, they've opened up the possibility of the financial rise of many of the people in Serbia that you're working with today. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37038	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37039	Dear colleague, I'm going to say very briefly, I don't really want to go through a big circle of replicas, but we unfortunately, I don't, unfortunately, live in Serbia that inherited a large number of tycoons and a large number of debts and a large number of closed and destroyed factories. I fully agree that during the period of transition from socialism to capitalism, we have been through the phases we've been through from the 1990s to the 2000s, but you're on the wings of exactly the promise to prevent what happened from the '90s to the 2000s from coming to power. So, what just happened? You just didn't reduce the number of tycoons, you just increased them. It's just that all the factories that existed you closed down, I'm talking from the corner of the Whisper. Whatever you're talking about, you were probably in Šapec from the entrance from Umaca to the exit road no factory remained, and that was once the chemical industry Zorka Šabac, which was the pride not of Sapca, not of Serbia, but of the whole of Yugoslavia. I'm not getting into the controversy of why it was done like that, but we need to make it clear that someone is responsible for it. The responsibility for this law that we have now passed has a government, has the Ministry has this Assembly if they vote it in the voting day, we don't run away from there. But responsibility for the fact that no serious investor has come to Sapac since 2000 to 2015 for 15 years, for this responsibility is directly borne by Dusan Petrovic and DS, in the last three years, since Dusan Petrovic is no longer a member of the DS, but be assured that the citizens know that the responsibility of the decision-makers was the responsibility of the DS at the time. Today's decisions are made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with its ministers and the Assembly, and that's just the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37040	Right on the line. Let's just discuss it first. Mr. Bradiche on what grounds? (Blagoje Bradic, from the post: Because my party president Dusan Petrovic was mentioned. I'm a member of a party whose president he is. ) Just a moment, right on the line or according to the Rules of Procedure. First, my colleague Zoran Babic. Here you go. [[Goran Ciric, from the post: I answered the line.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37041	Mr. Arsic, I think you have to explain whether or not you'll get the word, and then I ask you to give me back my time. Mr. Ciric is asking for a replica, just explain to him whether he is right or wrong and when, and then give me back the time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37042	Mr. Kiriq, here you go. First of all, I have to give my colleague Babic a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and as far as the line of law is concerned, I don't see what was offensive about it. [[Goran Ciric, from the post: I am looking for a replica, because my party is mentioned.]] (Goran Ciric, from the place: He mentioned DS and you know it very well. ) Is the fact that there is no more factory that works in Šapco offensive? That's the fact, that's the problem. Mixing value, as you said, I listened to you, that the tycoons were made in the '90s, and let's just say that the tycoons were made in the '90s. I'm not giving you a replica, and let's just say I think the tycoons were made in privatisation. [[Goran Ciric, from the place: You are now giving me a replica?]] So you don't have the right to a replica. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37043	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 107(1) of the National Assembly’s dignity. We saw a recent attempt, a failed attempt to defend Serbia's tycunisation, but along with this failed attempt to defend tycunisation, an even more unsuccessful attempt to give up any responsibility for Serbia's tycunisation. Whom did they first call a tycoon in history and is that the Chinese word of Japanese origin, or whatever it is? First, not all businesses in Serbia are tycoons. There are many more honest, responsible people who work 24 hours a day, whose families work 24 hours a day, who have acquired everything they have acquired in a legal and regular way. Hundreds and tens of thousands of people who hire them, who pay everything they need to the state, who pay taxes, are fair and responsible and businessmen. Did these tycoons come into existence the way someone claimed in the 1990s? Or was it the beginning of the 2000s? For none, for any other matter, SNS has no responsibility whatsoever. For these three years, no tycoon has arisen, but those who are in an unfair and irresponsible way, no matter what their names are and how they beat them now that they are owners of large capital, have ended up where they should end up, among the convicts and defendants' benches, where the laws of this country and the courts of this country will set a place for them. But what's personal to me is political tycoons. Those who went into politics in torn jeans and even more torn shoes, now have villas and apartments of a few acres...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37044	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37045	... Without any support or any justification for their real incomes. Now, they're political tycoons and they're the only ones with this society's cancer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37046	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37047	Mr. Chairman, you have violated a 106th member who says - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the President of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure and during the speech of the National MPs or other participants in the search, or the interference of speakers in other ways, such as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. I really didn't see the space for any replica of what I was saying in advertising the Rules of Procedure and that you two appeared as Mr. Birmancevic's lawyers and responded to what I replied to him. So he produced the need for a replica, at a time where there was no acuity in this debate, where it absolutely wasn't necessary, so now it had to be justified in some way, quite unnecessary. And that you are accusing someone of tycoonisation, and whether you see someone sitting in these benches and being a tycoon, and whether you have tycoons in your ranks and in your SNS benches and whether you have them on your list and whether you have talked to many tycoons about being the directors of public enterprises at the level of the Republic, offering a possible solution to the level of the Republic and were willing to talk to them, to contribute to the development of this country. I also know that not all businessmen, no one has ever said that, and at least I'll say that, that not all tycoons are tycoons and that by definition they are capable and wealthy people. So there are also how honest and capable, but don't put words to me that I haven't spoken, because by your actions you show the opposite, which is that you're willing to cooperate with tycoons, that you're even offering to run some of the public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37048	Mr. Kiric, first of all, I have to tell you that I feel that I have never hurt the Rules of Procedure at any time. I am trying to do the work of the chairman of the National Assembly, respecting the right that, while I am chairing the session, all MPs are equal to me. Believe me, I've wanted to come down to the MPs several times and answer you for everything you've said, because during the parliamentary career, what you've been talking about, that's not true, and that's why I released both my colleague Babic and my colleague Birmancevic and you to say whatever you want. Believe me, I had a desire to come down and answer you as an MP. So much for that. My colleague Bradic, mentioned by your party president, even if the party was mentioned, I do not see that you are authorized here in front of the parliamentary group, and the Rules of Procedure implies that if an offensive statement is made about the party or the parliamentary group, the President of the Parliamentary Group, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, has the right to the agenda. You know that very well. I'm surprised you tried it with me to get to the line this way. Comrade Babic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37049	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure has been misused, not for the first time or for the last time, and Mr. Ciric has done so, addressing both you and me, although I have no right to address myself, because, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but even when speaking to the Assembly, he can only address the President or the Chairman, but he said, you two who are trying to be lawyers to Mr. Birmancevic. I don't think Mr. Birmancevic's lawyer is really needed, because a man is very responsible and fairly doing his job as a MP, but also all the other jobs he does. On the other hand, ask and refer to the question, although at this point the whole of Serbia can testify that Mr. Ciric is the only DS representative in the hall, not only tonight, almost all of today, in this way DS shows a lack of interest in this topic that is very important for life and economy in Serbia and ask – well, who do you see here from the DS, and that he is the only man in the room in front of DS? Of course I don't see it right now, but on the left and right of Mr. Ciric, you can see tycoons, who are from the Mirije apartment at the top of the saltiter, suddenly becoming tycoons on Vračar, have half the Vračar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37050	Comrade Babic, I beg you about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37051	Yes, Article 27. So we see also some gourds of guys who, in just three or four years' time, have been helping Dragan Gilas in the mayor's office, suddenly become the owners of exclusive restaurants, cafes and buildings around Belgrade, so you're still asking me, do you see any tycoon, political tycoon at this point in the O.R.? Well, I can't see, I don't see him now, but I see him on the DS list and I see him in every DS operation and not just me, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia see him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37052	Thank you, colleague Granny. I believe that the same answer I gave my colleague Kiric is true of you. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I accept. My friend Kiriq, come in. What is it now? (Goran Ciric, from the place: He mentioned me several times. ) My colleague Babić had a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and there is no right to replication from the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. He was talking to me about why I didn't stop you from saying or doing anything. (Goran Ciric, from the post: And he can say from the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Didn't you do the same thing three and a half minutes ago? (Goran Ciric, from the place: You are me then...) Three and a half minutes ago, you made a replica through a breach of the Rules of Procedure, right? Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37053	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers with collaborators, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, my colleagues, particularly the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, and other colleagues, in a constructive and creative manner, spoke today about this set of laws relating to the area of economy, above all, focusing on the Investment Law. For this reason, I will focus only on several significant segments, which also refer to the Investment Law. I believe above all that the Investments Act is significant from an economic aspect, because it is absolutely in line with the declared strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and with the exposé of our Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, that the economic recovery and economic growth of the Republic of Serbia is one of his priority tasks. Mr. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic is working to achieve co-operation and attract foreign investment in our country during almost all his visits and during all his visits. Of course, this investment law puts foreign and domestic investors in a completely equal position, which is certainly the quality of this law. This law is also important from a social point of view. Why is it significant from the social aspect? Only because, through economic development and economic recovery and economic growth and the development of this country, there can be increased employment, and by increasing employment and by increasing the quality of life of all its citizens. This law has another line, which is that it's an anti-corruption law. The Serbian Progressive Party has zero tolerance from corruption. This law is anti-corruption, above all, because it is a normative framework for regulating a very important area for our economic development, which is an area of investment. Because this law clearly specifies the type of investment, investment criteria, incentives and reliefs, coordination and synchronised work of all institutions, starts from the ministry to institutions at the local level and because this law provides of course and criminal provisions for all those who do not respect this law. This law is also important from an administrative point of view, i.e. from the aspect of improving the capacity of our overall administration and improving the capacity of our administration and the Republic, but also from a local level, and from a focus of interest, not just the administration itself, but against those who want to invest in development, in the economic and economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia, that is to say, putting investors in focus. The legal aspect, I have already said, is that this is a normative framework done in accordance with the most recognised international standards regarding investment law, that this law has received support and positive opinions from all relevant world institutions that are experts in this area. It concerns the International Monetary Fund, it concerns the European Commission and our Commission for the distribution of state aid. Also, this law was on the site of the ministry, a working group was formed, all interested, irrelevant representatives participated and, of course, is now in front of the debate in the National Assembly and we expect from the competent ministry that the amendments that have been tabled, which improve the quality of this law will be taken into account and the law will also receive another quality through that form. What I must point out is that this government led by its Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, as the responsible Government, recognized as the necessity to define the problem as necessary, and after defining the problem to be defined and the goal to be achieved, and after the stated goal, to operate and the actions that will contribute to that goal. I would just briefly refer to the draft law confirming the Financial Restructuring Agreement in the part where this Government and your Ministry recognize the problem of entrepreneurs, who were not previously covered by this law and allow entrepreneurs to use this mechanism to maintain their business. According to the National Bank of Serbia, a large number of entrepreneurs, these are mostly small and medium-sized enterprises, are facing the problem. Of course, entrepreneurs are given another extenuating circumstance, that they do not have to have two financial institutions, but in these debt-confidential relations it is quite enough to have one financial institution. There is no doubt that the Serbian Progressive Party will support these laws in the voting day, but these are laws concerning the improvement and well-being of all citizens. I call upon all other MPs to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37054	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37055	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Arsic, the Honorable Minister Sertic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased to see you often in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This also speaks of your activities as minister and activities of your ministry, on the one hand, but also the activities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose member you are. Dear Minister, the citizens of Serbia when the time comes, I'm sure they'll appreciate it. Mr. Ministers are wrong today, opposition MPs, those who have criticised you and the work of this government, in particular Balša Bozovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović and Zoran Zivkovic, have preceded it. I'll only give three informations for Serbian citizens to see what's true. In this year, 12.9% of industrial production increased. If they can deny this, unfortunately they're not in the benches now, 14% of exports have increased, 17% unemployment with 25.6% when they were in power. These are facts that no one can kill. This investment law has its foothold, gentlemen Members of Parliament, even in seven members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which speaks of the importance of this law, has its foothold on the Law on State Administration, the Law on Ministries, the Strategy for Attracting Direct Investments, the programme established by the International Monetary Fund and the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the annual plan of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 2015. This law also has its foothold in the exposé of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted to us, the MPs, in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 27 April 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, this exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most comprehensive and comprehensive – 52 densely typed pages, the most concrete and best of all the previous 72 exposés of the Serbian government since the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister, Mateja Nenadovic, 1805 until today. The exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, page 19, reads that "the government of the Republic of Serbia will pass a reform package of laws, including the Investment Law, will specify state incentives and conditions under which foreign investors will be granted, in accordance with EU rules. “ Here is this law before us, the MPs of the people, today on the benches, that we should give our opinion on it, that we should possibly submit amendments to it and declare it in the day of the vote, gentlemen of the peoples. Gentlemen, that's what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does, headed by its President, Alexander Vukic, by the system, as you can see, written in exposé and achieved here today in the National Assembly. So it will certainly be in the future. This Investment Law is one of the 13 laws listed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic in an exposé, which was to be passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for the purpose of changing the legal framework that defines the conditions of business in Serbia. I note that it is not true today that representatives of the former regime have said no laws have been passed. My teeny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny. I note that the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed, and this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has passed 12 of the possible 13 laws, as 13. So the realization is 100%. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law will solve many of the problems of the investment domain, and in particular the general legal framework for investment in the Republic of Serbia, entities will be set up to support investments in quality provision of services to investors, establish and determine work, as we have heard today, the Council for Economic Development and establish and determine the work of the Serbian Development Agency. Furthermore, the status of foreign and domestic investors will be leveled, and for the first time in Serbia, investment is defined. The constitutional principle of freedom of investment is affirmed. Further, investments with special national importance and investments in local self-government are divided. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will also stop the work of the Foreign Investment and Export Promotion Agency and the National Regional Development Agency. It is important to note that the proposal for this investment law was made on the basis of the best standards of international investment law, especially in the area of investment freedom, investor rights and the establishment of an investment framework for the efficient provision of services, as well as better coordination of the work of public authority holders at all levels of government, as we have heard, both in the process of preparing investments and in the course and after its realisation. The formation of the Economic Development Council and the Serbian Development Agency will improve investment implementation, reduce the risk of duplication of businesses, and thus save in the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as reduce the corruption that is destroying our country. In addition, the law very precisely regulates types of investment, criteria and incentives for investment. It also prescribes measures for the incentive and competitiveness of local self-government, the process of complaints against the work of authorities, violations of laws by officials, as well as the measures to be imposed in the event of violations of the law. In the same way, the obligations of the responsible Ministry of Business Affairs for the control of projects in the field of investment are established. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by passing this law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry, Mr. Minister, whose head you are, fulfils part of your work plan for 2015, and thus keeps its promises made to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to us, the MPs, in this high house. The application of this law will create additional value, will increase the number of business entities, primarily newly established domestic and foreign companies. This will also lead to the modernisation of the production and other capacities of operators. The law is also in line with the Government of Serbia's strategy for attracting as many direct investments as possible, and this will lead to job creation, which again leads to a reduction in the unemployment rate, as well as a reduction in public debt. The Ministry of Business has conducted transparently all possible preparations and advances for the adoption of this law. It is not true what the MPs today said that there was no preparation, on the contrary, with all the relevant factors, both in the country and outside the country. In this way, the quality of this very important law is guaranteed. On that behalf, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to give your vote on this very important law in the Voting Day. I especially invite you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, out of the weak opposition, though, there are two of you, to give your vote for this law. This, even so, will show at least a little bit of the will to modernise our country, which is so warmly advocated, and not only implements, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, assisted by the President of the Republic, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, the largest number of MPs of the Republic of Serbia Assembly and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37056	Mr. Atlagic, I've let you finish, since you've quoted the Prime Minister's exposés so well, and you'll see that it says in it that the government's obligations are to us and we have such a large parliamentary group, that we keep our fellow opposition officers as eyes in the head. Therefore, I ask that you no longer call them weak and small. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37057	Thank you, Chairman. Today we talked about a set of financial laws aimed at reviving the economy of the Republic of Serbia. I can't help but agree at first with the presentation of my colleague Boban Birmancevic, which is why we've been discussing it for hours and hours today, and which is why we have these and these laws on the agenda. Because our economy is completely ruined, and it is torn down thanks to the catastrophic privatisation, which has completely devastated the economy of the Republic of Serbia and has brought about a situation which, unfortunately, is difficult to correct. And then someone dares to speak at almost every session about how they were taken away from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia's salaries and pensions, if we all know that they have not been taken away, that only a small number has been reduced, a little bit, and for a certain time, and then these same people expect the government, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, to have a magic wand and to pull the country out of a crisis that they had led it back decades. As for the proposal for a law on investment, I feel that the bill should be supported in a warm way, and this is for the reasons I have just stated. All previous laws, starting with the 2004 Company Act, which supports foreign investment, have fully equated both domestic and foreign investors. Therefore, it remains an obligation for the Ministry of Economy to strictly implement this proposed law, although we all know there are few interesting investment firms left, so we must insist that these companies be purchased, i.e. the bankruptcy process is brought to an end. The good side of the bill is that investments will be made through the Development Agency in the future, as this guarantees the legal certainty of investors, both foreign and domestic. There is also a currency, which can be both foreign and domestic, which is very significant, as well as the fact that the investor is exempt from customs duties and other import duties, as well as how it has a stimulating effect on the investor, compared to earlier laws. As for local environments, investments are carried out through local agencies, and for the purpose of educated project teams. In doing so, every local environment must take care of its own local interests. It is good that all these investments are under the control of the National Agency and the Council for Economic Development. About how much the government of Prime Minister Vukic was investing, my colleague Micin said extremely comprehensively, and I will not talk about it. Perhaps many forget that when it comes to restructuring, it is essential that the company in the restructuring phase is brought back fresh money through the investment phase, which is a denial of the part of the current consumption for greater benefit in the future. The role of investment in the restructuring phase is necessary to transform the company from existing to new, better and expected. Financial restructuring is a fully voluntary out-of-court model. This way of financial extrajudicial and extracurricular restructuring of companies, today a business society, is the first option in a series of measures that can be implemented. During 2013 and 2014, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development conducted a draft analysis of the legal framework for financial restructuring. Although the law came into force with us in 2011, all the analyses showed that this gave a favourable result. So, as a rule, the other debtors are small and medium-sized enterprises, which causes additional difficulties. These are, therefore, companies that have recorded business losses several years ago prior to the introduction of restructuring. The first problem that has arisen is that banks in bankruptcy or under the management of the Insurance Agency have emerged in the process of restructuring the financial sector. Since the types of creditors are very different, suppliers, workers, tax administrations, pension funds and others, it's hard to reconcile all of this. As the legal texts are fully justified, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants is also fully justified. Of course, no distinction should be allowed between bankruptcy proceedings, which are carried out over private-owned legal entities, and procedures, which are carried out over state-owned, social-owned enterprises. The bankruptcy procedure, no matter what type of property it is, must be conducted in a unique manner, according to a unique procedure by experts whose work will at any time be maximum transparency. So let us give support to our prime minister, our government and the naturally resolute ministry in trying to adopt the proposed legal texts to try to save what is to be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37058	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37059	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues are today three laws that can be considered serious acts in their spheres. The proposal for a investment law mentions the education of the Serbian Development Agency. It is good to understand that the existence of the Serbia-SIEPA Development Agency can lead to duplication of businesses, powers, duties, and more. Also, in this law in Article 23, we believe that the investment programme is part of the decision of investors, i.e. investors and investors only. I think that should be the basic rule and he has a big primate in it. The same article mentions the possibility of local self-government obtaining co-investor status. We ask - if there is such a possibility, does this local government, as a business person, and yet in the status of co-investor, subject to tax obligations? Also, the second law here on the agenda is the draft law on financial restructuring, in our opinion it is an attempt to raise the level of liquidity of the economy with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as on businesses. I don't think these good intentions that the promoter had were quite so well implemented in this bill. In our opinion, the law would be more like a set of individual economic and legal observations, rather than a regulated and regulated legal act. We also see this proposal as one of the terms of a negotiated arrangement with the IMF. The Third Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants provided for the accession of part of the jurisdiction of the Privatisation Agency. Data are higher ALS powers and it is logical to add to its name bankruptcy procedures. I heard in the debate that it was intentional, but in some later period. Given that the priority is to achieve, i.e. the opening of bankruptcy procedures, the settlement of creditors, we suspect that by extending jurisdiction, there will be an increase in costs and I believe that the opposite effect will be achieved in terms of costs themselves, and that there is a negative potential for some to abuse through new party employment. It is necessary to insist on the professional and moral qualities of the bankruptcy managers, because the information given in the reasons for the large number of disciplinary proceedings launched – 234, the disciplined measures – 148, the fines of 11,620,000 compared to the total number of licensed bankruptcy managers, which is 738, is currently talking about a high crime rate in that area. The proposed solutions to that institute and the appointment of a bankruptcy manager in practice could cause more damage than benefits. In cases of company bankruptcy with majority social and state capital, regulation of the initial cost of bankruptcy falls on the burden of the bankruptcy manager himself, and we all know that. The issue remained unregulated in the bankruptcy law itself, and the manager can only compensate for the costs in the time or after the bankruptcy proceedings have been completed. In practice so far, for these specific bankruptcy proceedings, such unresolved issues have been easier to resolve, as a bankruptcy manager, the Privatisation Agency, since it is much more powerful, financially, of course, and could have allocated funds from its funds for such matters. Such financial opportunities, which would be transferred to ALS, we think the system itself will slow down the process, not speed it up. We think it's something you should think about. However, despite the issue of how to regulate the initial cost of bankruptcy, it will emerge under the adopted bill and the problem of optimal labour necessary to overcome the sudden increase in the volume of bankruptcy, even the new 188 procedures, and so far it has been done, if I am not mistaken, up to 136. This shows that the non-sustainable explanation of the promoter is that it will not need any financial and personnel reinforcements to the ALS, due to the expanded volume of work. So I'm asking a question -- how is it possible for you to take over workers, I guess 61 employees from the Center for Banks, au the Privatisation Agency, are now employed on 188 new cases, if we know that this same group has been working up to 136 cases so far? To this end, the promoter suggests that new centres, i.e. the ALS area unit, be opened in several cities in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37060	Time, colleague Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37061	I'm just finishing my sentence. ... the question arises – where is this logic when the Privatisation Agency in its organization has these centers and could more rationally handle all these new bankruptcys? The Serbian People's Party will give its position on the three laws because of all these arguments, following an amendment debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37062	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37063	Dear MP, the investment programme is an optional matter at the request of the investor, so it is not a commitment anywhere, and the local self-government itself is not a co-investor of the project, but it has entirely other activities within that direction, so I ask you to read well only until Thursday, until the amendment, and if we have any further disagreements to discuss it, but it was not an idea, nor have we had anyone here who has made such an observation. On the other hand, the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants will become part of bankruptcy proceedings, which is essential, to take over the procedures that have been done so far and from the Centre for the Bank’s bankruptcy of the existing Agency for Privatisation, and those of the highest quality people will cross over just to make the level of jobs that will be added more sustainable and adequate, and no additional specific costs will be necessary in relation to those budgetary positions that exist. You have well noticed, as have many MPs, that there are problems with bankruptcy managers, with their way of working, with their functioning. That's what this law is all about, that's why we centralize in one place, that we can control, do good analysis and give suggestions through analysis where and how things should change, and as a result we get a much more efficient process. So that part of the thing that isn't solved by this law will be solved by the law of bankruptcy, which we have already announced. Thanks for the suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37064	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37065	Dr. Blagoje Bradic, I apologize. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, a respected gentleman from the ministry, co-workers and colleagues, respected citizens, here's 11 hours as we discuss...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37066	My friend Bradic, I apologize for that, but that's what you ask your chief of Parliament club to do when it fills out the list of speakers to put it on the doctor...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37067	Mr. Arsic, I respect you very much and respect you as...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37068	I respect you, too, but don't transfer and don't correct me, but correct your chief of Parliament club.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37069	You have an inexplicable desire to discipline me and educate me. I'm asking you not to do that. Let me talk about what I'm waiting for...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37070	You'll get it, I just said to ask your president of the Parliament Club to fill out a word application with your title, because based on that word application, I'm getting a list of speakers and you know it very well. Then don't let all of us, let's just say, pull your nose. Go ahead, go ahead. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Come on, Mr. Arsic, have a good apology, I will listen to you carefully. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37071	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia who will later watch the transfer of our Assembly and this session, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. We're talking about the Investment Act today, and I think this is a little bit of a need for all of us, because without a strong economy, there's no strong state, and we know the period behind us for 15 years. The Investment Act provides conditions for increased investment and for the establishment of new business entities, both domestic and foreign. This bill also puts an accent on domestic ones, unlike the previous one that included more foreign investors, and we all know what history was and how much funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is said to have been thrown into the well, and there is no result. Under this law, I would point out a member of the 16th proposed law, which contains provisions and duties of conduct and urgency of the authorities. This article provides that authorities are obliged to enable investment, but to monitor the exercise of the investor's obligations. In my opinion, that's the essence of this law and I think it's important for all of us, whether it's local, whether it's a state government, it's important that we all help investors make their rights easier and invest in our Serbia as soon as possible. It is also very important that all authorities, authorities, authorities of the state administration, local self-government authorities, all those with public powers are obliged to monitor the exercise of rights, but also to implement investment obligations. So, all of us who are here and who are working in Serbia are obliged to help, but also to follow those investments, because we have had negative experiences. So when a certain number of perpetrators are to be employed, when funds are to be invested in the purchase of the necessary equipment, all of this must be monitored. The proposed Article 18 is prescribed to file a complaint against authorities not acting under Article 16 to the Development Agency. I would suggest that if certain formations occur, and through the amendments we can introduce, that the Development Agency at the same time inform the prosecution, that the prosecution is working on it, because as a representative of local self-government, as I said, I had more of such investments in the previous period, where we, as local self-government, had already informed the competent prosecutor's office and a number of institutions about some situations that were suspicious of investment in our municipality. A number of investments justified their assets, while a number did not. I suppose some of them will answer for that. What else can I say, the law introduces the obligation of local self-government to have certain persons who will work in local self-government to help with investments, which is a very good thing about the bill. I will vote in favour of the bill, but I also represent the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Parliament. I was elected from the SNS list and as a representative of the United Peasants' Party, I would suggest something else. Since we know how much funds were invested during the previous period as regards the economy, at 10,000 euros were given to certain investors on the side, so if we could help certain agricultural holdings get 10,000 euros for the construction of an orchard, for the purchase of a certain number of large livestock, for the purchase of strawberry fruit, we would certainly invest those funds, so that they could function, that they could live, and on the other hand, they would return three times, four times, and we would not have a certain newspaper, journalists who mention rural Stalinism. I was just before, as my colleague Marijan Risticevic said, representing the People's Peasant Party, and I, the United Peasant Party, thought the same thing, and it hit me when I heard it, because we all know what happened during Stalinism. We all know that peasants, farmers, are martyrs, who have always been with their country, with everything that was meant to be when it was most difficult, peasants were there. It really hit me, that's the name of certain intellectuals who work in some newspapers. Once again, I'm going to call the competent ministry, because you're already working and having your working group working on cooperative work, we have the opportunity through the cooperative to get our cooperatives, the agricultural producers who want to deal with certain agricultural production, to get funds like this. Whether it will be set thousands of euros, five, six, ten thousand euros, but I'm sure those cooperatives will justify it, return it, and I'm sure that this will bring back the possibility that people can live on it and farmers really have an interest in farming, normally with the help of our ministry. One more thing that is very important, in the end one remark on Article 12. The bill, which sets out criteria that determine the importance of investment, which are the number of jobs, the amount of investment, the impact on the balance sheet of the Republic of Serbia and the long-term investment. Article 11 defines that investment is of particular importance to investment that would have an important impact on, among other things, even regional development. I think it's in line with that definition in Article 12. It could be another criterion, which is the degree of development of the municipality. I'm coming, I said earlier from the municipality, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is an undeveloped municipality. In the previous period, we had a large number of workers, there were 80s, but the transition did it in 2000 and on here, many companies were shut down, and I could say that wartime. Therefore, it is very important that in tomorrow's criteria when determining the amount of subsidies and helping economic operators to give greater opportunity for undeveloped municipalities, which are devastated, such as My community, like, for example. White Palanka, such as Književec, such as Gajin Han, such as Babusnica and 40 other such municipalities in Serbia. By investing in such municipalities that there must be a higher level of investment easier to obtain from the ministry and this law must therefore help to create jobs in these municipalities tomorrow and from domestic investors what we talked about, normally and from foreign investors. With all that to be followed, not to be abused. Another important thing about this economic council is that there are nine members, I would suggest normally it will also be through the amendments, that within the framework of this council to be present and one member of the council to be from the devastically undeveloped local self-government. There are opportunities through the amendment, I think it's already written, I'd like to invite you ministers if it's possible for a member of the council to be from underdeveloped, or devastated local self-government, because they know best how it is, how it should be done and can be easier to represent their municipalities. One such would be, I mean, enough to help, along with all the other council members, to invest in such municipalities that are underdeveloped, which are devastated. We just heard some colleagues say in certain areas, our Serbia's territories are not invested, I know it's invested everywhere. The southeast of Serbia is in the most difficult situation, and I would like to invite you through a certain rule, and here we have it in Article 13, so that the government can make certain rules that can improve certain things. In that part, I will certainly vote in favour of this bill and all these laws that have been proposed as a representative of the United Peasants Party elected from the Progressive Party list, because I trust you ministers and our government headed by our Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37072	Thank you. Minister Zeljko Sertic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37073	I thank dear fellow Millie for these kind words and for her support for the law. I'm just going to give you a few explanations of very important importance to make it clear. First of all, this law does not give us the opportunity to give a boost to primary agricultural production, which is done by the Ministry of Agriculture. Otherwise, all the laws that we define this framework, the promotion of investment and the positive European regulations are practically divided into different categories. I am sure that in the coming period the very kind of incentive, intensity, mode, possibilities and all the other circumstances under which the Ministry of Agriculture is encouraging that we will solve in a much better way, so we will certainly take into account your observations. The second thing, since you mentioned cooperatives, is that we have concluded a public discussion of the cooperative law. I think that already in November of this month we will be before you as MPs to do and to complete this roof law that has not been welcomed in Serbia for ten years to be successfully completed and that the basis of it can then be for the rested ministries to lay down their laws that will define from agriculture, which will deal with cooperatives intended for agricultural primary production and other forms of development in that area and other ministries responsible for other areas, since we have different types of cooperatives. Third thing, your suggestion about the degree of development of municipalities or devasted areas. We have already installed, implemented in an existing regulation that is currently in force. It will certainly be one of the most important factors and in the next regulation that we are required under the law to adopt, and we have foreseen that threshold of minimum investment for the state to enter into the incentive process of any kind, any of those four elements, which is that the devastated areas, the fourth group has, therefore, at least 30 employees in the new investment of 250 000 euros. You will agree with me that this is far the lowest level ever, but it is an important message that we have thought about, that we have made categories and done everything that such a single decision and attention to areas that have little development and great unemployment is carefully prepared and treated by the government. Finally, as for the issues and your proposal for someone from the devastated areas to be a member of the development agency, we have predicted it differently, but we have left the possibility and I firmly promise you that in all the documents that we are dealing with, development policies, everything that becomes a council for Serbia's economic development, that a large number of people will participate, a large number of experts, and there we certainly need help, and municipalities, and local self-government, and people from different categories of local self-government who can give their best view. And in the way that we passed this law, in a broad public debate, with a large number of participants from the university professors, from experts from international law, from people who helped us from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, to all associations that were included together with all the participants from the ministries, from a completely widest diapazon, we will deal with both future and sublegal acts, because it is important that the whole package, the entire portfolio of investment law, be arranged in the best possible way and we will not give up even in the next period. Anyway, thanks for the support for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37074	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a common principle, a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Ciric, 35 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37075	Thirty-five seconds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37076	Thirty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37077	Okay, here, in 35 seconds I think it's important that we do as much as possible, get a good investment law, just to mention this atmosphere at this meeting of the Assembly. Surely such an atmosphere will not contribute to the success of any law, including that which this congregation will adopt. I think this is how you limit the serious potential of a part of society as much as it is. Was it 5, 10, 20, 40%, but this attitude towards opposition MPs and MP Blago Bradic, who was brutally... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37078	Time's up. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37079	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and everyone else in the hall that you stayed until the end of the discussion, we today practically have a proposal for a new institutional framework in an investment policy by both domestic and foreign investors. We have a new institutional framework for a subsidy policy that has never existed in Serbia before. We have practical protection of state interests when it comes to budgeting in general to a contortional subsidy policy. We have the protection of investors who know exactly what order they are in when it comes to negotiations. Finally, we have a new institutional framework concerning the establishment of effective coordination mechanisms between newly established institutions from local self-government through Serbia's development agency to the economy ministry and the Serbian government. I think that through these legal solutions, Serbia is given a new face when it comes to the business environment, when it comes to investment, when it comes to Serbia as a country that goes towards European integration, that is, Europe, and who wants to become eventually members and who wants to have a market as it exists in EU countries. What is important is to say that the legal solutions that are in addition to the investment laws relating to and the transfer of the bankruptcy centre to the Agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers are practically given one signal and what we have drawn as a state for the completion of the privatisation process, but also the bankruptcy that will in a certain way exercise full control of the bankruptcy managers who have not yet been united or there has been a record, but now through a common database you will simply have full information about what is going on with the companies that are ending the bankruptcy process. At the end of what we said, which is the part that relates to the opportunities that you give entrepreneurs to resolve their liquidity issue, that is to say, resolve their debt in contact with banks and with their debts and with the institutions they need to solve, it practically gives them the opportunity to make small and medium-sized enterprises really a little lively, and simply come into a new momentum to function on the capital market. Finally, what we talked about at the very least is the Agreement concerning Serbia and the Czech Republic, and it is very important because it is exactly giving us this social economic co-operation and development in the future and on the projects that we will have from the field of environmental protection, from renewable sources of energy, from education, and thus practically the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office for European Integration will, in a certain way, have the opportunity to reanalyse all these projects, and you as the Ministry of Economy at any moment will have the practical opportunity to have insights that these foreign direct investments through this type of co-operation in the future will be realised, given that this contract is still concluded on 27 June 2013, and that only now is ratified. So, in general, this set of laws that we have now and today been given the opportunity to discuss, will certainly open a better business environment and will certainly deliver good results for Serbia's budget in the future. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for having patience, and I hope that the day after tomorrow we will really enter into a constructive debate about the amendments, because I don't think we should discuss amendments that are simply some shouting talk about topics that clearly serve for election purposes in the local elections that are approaching us next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-20-0.u37080	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby conclude the common principle, uniform search on proposals for points 1, 2 and 3 and 4 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
