ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32500	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 14th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 138 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 158 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the National Salad Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32501	Thank you, Your Honor. I am using the right to request official reports from the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matters, in accordance with its powers, on the case of armed intrusion into the official premises of SDA Sandzak and the attempted murder of party president Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, who was then minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the case took place on 17 January 2009. We have tried countless times, which in government meetings, through the National Assembly through parliamentary questions, to get this information. But until today, after six years of this crime, we still have no answer to the question of who are the armed persons who broke into the official premises of a parliamentary party. Who are the employers of this crime? Who are all the people who shot the president of one parliamentary party and then the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, first by throwing heavy objects at the head and then by more shots from more than one piece of firearms and all that in the official rooms of our party? Despite the obligation that we as a People's MP, in the time of delivery of the answers, to this day neither I as a People's MP nor Dr. Ugljanin as a minister have received answers to any of these questions. Even one of the answers to Dr. Ugljanin's question was given by the former prime minister and police minister, when he said he himself has been trying to reach these reports for two years, however unsuccessfully. I believe it is important to inform both the Commissioner and the public that the SDA Sandzak is from the Municipal Court in Novi Pazar that this infraction has violated the right of state, i.e. the right of inviolability of the apartment over these premises, and I have sought information about all this, as we have said, from the former prime minister, the police minister, from current Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and current Minister of the Nebojsa Stefanovic Police. Instead of answering the parliamentary question, I received from Minister Stefanovic some censored document, which he signed and titled as a notice, in which he ignored all the questions I asked and provided me with parts of some alleged police report, which was apparently written to cover up the details of this crime after six years, to hide the perpetrators, employers and their assistants, who apparently, judging by all this, but also by this report, are also in the police, but also in other state authorities. The announcement, signed by Minister Stefanovic, does not speak at all of the events within our party's official premises, and it is not even understood that there was a shooting at the minister, but is simply said to have been found several shell casings. But it's not said how those shells got there. It is obvious that this is about a malicious and very dangerous replacement of the thesis, because this police report does not mention any word of attacks and shootings against a minister in the government, the president and the leadership of the SDA Sandzak, nor does a single name of the arrested people, the direct perpetrators of these crimes, or even the initials of the people found to have been shot. It is clear from all of this that it is a well-designed and organized crime and that there is unequivocally a rope between perpetrators, employers and individual state bodies. It is incomprehensible that after six years of being full, it is simply impossible to come up with an answer to who has entered our official premises and who has attempted to kill a minister in the government of this country and members of the leadership of a parliamentary party in this House in which we are sitting today. Because of all this, I find it extremely important that all this information related to this crime be made available to the public, in order to prevent something similar from happening again. This is about an attack on a parliamentary party and the attempted murder of a minority minister in the government of this country. The information on this case must not be hidden for six minutes, let alone six years, as is the case here. And I repeat again, if this practice continues, that the state authorities obstruct justice, we will be forced to address international institutions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32502	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32503	Thank you, President. I'm asking the Minister of the Interior, Nebojsa Stefanovic. My question concerns the laying of "B" and "F" categories. I ask, will the Traffic Safety Act be changed on the roads, or might a regulation be passed to facilitate young people living in the country passing tractor driving exams, that is, for the "F" category? Apparently, in smaller towns in Vojvodina, and I think so in other parts of Serbia, not all car schools in certain municipalities in certain territories and the possibility of laying down for a tractor, i.e. for the "F" category. So, some young people who want to pass for tractor driving, this "F" category, have to travel up to a hundred kilometers to take a driving test in order to manage tractors, or to acquire that "F" category. Once, in the old Traffic Safety Act on Roads, who passed the "V" category could also manage tractors, which was good. Simply, the tests were passed, the test drive was carried out, the first aid and what was going on, and people could also manage tractors if they had already passed the "B" category. Now, under the new law, that's not possible. I say, the more difficult circumstance is that they don't have all the auto-schools to carry out training for the "F" category. Travel costs a lot to some other municipalities. Third, why do young people who want to live in the country and place that "B" category simply cannot manage tractors? Why do you have to take first aid again? The provision of first aid on roads is not the same if it already has a laid "B" category, but it must be re-set in the acquisition of the "F" category. Once again, young people or those who want to take the tractor have to go to the doctor's office. Does the person who already has the “B” category laid down and has the medical assurance that he is capable of driving a motor vehicle in that category “B” have to go back to his doctoral confidence in order to contribute to the laying of the “F” category or to tractors? So, I think it's one addition to more young people and to such a poor paor budget, and I just don't think that's good. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its exposé, in its own programme, has the task of reviving villages, in some way forcing young people to return to villages or live in villages, simply why not make it possible to drive tractors along with this laid "B" category? Now there's a possibility that you can drive some permitted mass. The authorised mass of the means of transport shall not exceed three and a half thousand kilograms. They say they're bangers, and I don't know who's driving a bogeyman in the country. So, I ask the Government and ask the Minister of the Interior if he might consider reintroducing the possibility that the "B" category might include the "F" category, i.e. the category of tractor management?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32504	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Chotric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32505	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, the investigative and judicial proceedings conducted in Germany and Belgium in connection with the killings of political immigrants from then-Yugoslavia, Enver Hadri in 1990 in Brussels and Stjepan Đurekovic in Munich, say EU countries are seeking to be enlightened by the killings committed by the secret Yugoslav police. I think that in our country, too, in an effort to meet the conditions to become a full member of the EU, we need to open the files of secret security services, to bring in a declaration in this house of condemnation of the crimes of the communist totalitarian regime. That's why I'm asking the Ministry of the Interior -- are investigative and judicial proceedings open? If so, at which stage in connection with the murders of several dozen Serbian political immigrants, which have been committed since the '50s, until the end of the 1990s, mostly in Western European countries where political immigrants from Serbia were located. They were mostly citizens of our country or citizens of Serbian origin. So, I'm interested in a concrete response from the MUP whether there is any knowledge of the murder of Lieutenant Colonel Sinisha Okokolić, who was commander of the Mlavski Corps, who was kidnapped in Austria on 16 October 1954? He was secretly transferred to our country and was killed in Belgrade in prison without being tried. Captain Andrija Andra Loncaric, who was the liaison officer between General Dragoljub Mihajlovic and the Yugoslav government in Cairo, endured a 14-year prison sentence in our country, then emigrated. He was killed in Paris on March 6, 1969, and this murder has not been lit up to this day. Then, Lieutenant Bora Blagojevic, who was the commander of the Drina Corps headquarters. After the war, he lived in Belgium, Brussels. He owned the restaurant. He was killed outside his apartment on March 8, 1975. To point out that Bora Blagojevic was decorated by the Karadjordjev star with swords, silver and gold medal Milos Obelić for courage. This murder wasn't lit up either. Petar Valic was a journalist. During World War II, he was editor of the daily "Vidovdan" newspaper, which was published by the Yugoslav Army's forestry group in the country and was editor of the list "Oplenac", which was issued by the mountain guard, then the list "Shumadia", the forest group of the Corps. In immigration, he continued to deal with editorial work and journalism and was killed in Brussels on 13 May 1976. Also, Miodrag Boskovic, a member of the Ravnog Movement, was killed. After the war in Brussels, also in Belgium, he engaged in economy and hospitality. He was killed in his hotel on 6 August 1976, and with him a student, Uros Milicevic, lost his life. Bogdan Mamula, who was a member of the Serbian Chetniks' Organisation Flat Mountain, was killed on the night between 17 August and 18 August 1977 in Gary, in the state of Indiana, in the United States, on his return home. Rade Panic, a member of the organisation of Serbian Chetniks "Ravna Gora", was killed in Toronto, Canada, on 28 August 1977. The same explosion killed Petar Bunjevac and Petar Kljajic. Ratko Obradovic was killed in Munich on 17 April 1967. He was a member of the Yugoslav Movement "Zbor", as well as Jakov Ljotic, who was killed in Munich on July 8th 1974. Dragisa Kasicovic was a writer, painter, translator, was editor-in-chief of the "Freedom", a list of Serbian national defences for the United States. He was killed on August 19th 1977 in Chicago, in the newspaper. His daughter Ivanka Milosevic, who was only nine years old, also lost her life with him. This murder has not been lit up to this day, and it is well suspected that it was committed by members of the Yugoslav communist police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32506	Time. Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32507	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I first refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic. What's this about? A few months ago, I submitted a proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act, where I proposed that in the work on dentistry and dental care, a member of the Law be changed and allowed all citizens of Serbia, insurance companies of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, to have as they once had the right to free dental repair and treatment of all mouth and tooth diseases on the burden of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. You know that's not the case now, that the working-age population is paying for private dental repairs, while certain categories, pregnant women, palitative care patients, that I don't now, have the right to receive these services through the Republic Health Insurance Fund. One of the basic reasons that gave me hope that the Republic Assembly would accept my proposal, normally, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which in the part of dentistry has unallocated over 340 million dinars, means that the settlement of all contracts with primary health institutions where you have dental and health care, is an excess of 340 million dinars, at least as regards the position of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which pays for everything that the state health in the Republic of Serbia is doing. The second belief was, if you remember, more than a year ago when 2% of the contributions from the position of the Republic Health Insurance Fund were transferred to the pension fund, with the explanation of the then finance minister and prime minister of the government that there was a huge savings in the position of the Republic Health Insurance Fund and that the money would be transferred to the pension fund and there would be no problem in treating patients in Serbia, as far as financing is concerned, or there was another argument that the majority of the assembly and the government would accept my proposal. Imagine, a few days ago, I got the government's opinion that I'm not reading you the whole text, that the idea is good, that it's supposed to be done, but that right now it's not feasible because there's no available means. Now I ask the Prime Minister of Mr. Alexander Vukic - is there any money in the budget or no money? Looking at the papers and the daily statements in the media and what it says in the budget of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, there are 340 million dinars unallocated. We all know that the rebalancing in the Republic Fund hasn't been up until now. I wonder why this money isn't activated, if everyone here in this room wants to benefit from the citizens of Serbia, and this is one of the important factors? We know what state the mouth is in the teeth of Serbian citizens because it is a major crisis, people don't have the money to fund private dentists to take care of their teeth. I ask Mr. Vukic to answer me – is there money or not in the budget? I'm asking Mr. Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister, and Minister of Health. We hear in the media that the situation in Serbian health is ideal, that the departments of health institutions throughout Serbia are being renovated daily in public health, that new appliances are being purchased, that waiting lists are being reduced. What drove me to ask a question here in this high home of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are the daily contacts of patients of the clinical center, and I believe that in other cities there is a similar situation, that there is a shortage of drugs and sanity material and that patients are forced to buy medicines and sanity material themselves, in order to provide them with health care, i.e. Medical service. I remind you that the Health Protection Act is forbidden for doctors in the network plan to receive sanitary material and medications passed by tenders and public procurement at the clinical center because it is not known whether it is out of date, as it has been preserved and now that I do not explain what is well known to all of you. I ask the Prime Minister - is it true that in health institutions what patients say is not a proper supply, that the problem is in central tenders and that the problem is in reducing waiting lists, especially for cancer patients, because the promise was that these lists would be reduced? The lists, people say, are getting longer and longer, the apparatus is getting smaller and smaller. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32508	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32509	Thank you. In the same text, I ask Minister Zeljko Sertic, Minister Dusan Vujovic and the Governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jorgvanka Tabakovic. The question is simple and I hope that I will have a very short answer, and it is said – is it mandatory to use stamps for companies, entrepreneurs, legal persons in payment and in other situations when an entrepreneur, a firm, uses its documents? It can be answered with yes or no, and the reason why I'm asking this question is the situation that entrepreneurs of various structures have in opening up payment traffic and in contact with various administration services, from the state administration, where some people are looking for a seal inexplicably, some not, which seems to be the problem. In the Commercial Society Act, Article 25 clearly states that the company is not obliged to use the seal in business letters and other documents of the company if the law does not provide otherwise. In the Law on Payments, the National Bank says that the way in which the obligations and procedures for the payment account are established are determined by a decision. The National Bank has made a decision saying that in point 13 of the decision of the National Bank of Serbia, which is with the edge of opening and shutting down of the bank's accounts, the National Bank in the 2009 Act, while the Law on Economic Companies since 2012, says – the requirement of legal and natural persons who perform the activity for opening an account with the bank contains: the name of the applicant's request, seat, address, telephone, business, activity, home number of applicants, seal and signature of a person authorised to represent. The latest documents, which I am concerned with, and Minister Dusan Vujovic is – the existence of an explanation of him, with which the Ministry of Finance informed the Tax Administration that the company's seal is not mandatory. I ask if they can sit together and answer me whether it's important what it says in the Decision, if the Business Society Act says that the use of the seal is prescribed by law, whether the status of entrepreneurs, owners of small and medium-sized enterprises, legal persons in front of banks and before the state depends on whether a bank interprets the decision of the National Bank, or some other bank interprets the law. And, can we all get together once and for all, especially now and at the same time and let, well, that's right, during the process and paying the bills without opening the current accounts. So we have a complete illogicality in the rules of business that are being placed before entrepreneurs, on the one hand we will have a payment without a current account, and on the other hand we have entrepreneurs who are looking for a seal because it says so in the National Bank Decision. If we are all in the words to help entrepreneurs, for the friendly atmosphere, for a friendly environment for all those who want to deal with private business, please Minister Vujovic, Minister Sertic and Governor Tabakovic to sit down and agree whether the stamp is needed or not? If the decision is to be changed, let it be changed by the National Bank, if the law needs to be changed, let them appear before the Assembly, but once we show that we understand the torment of an entrepreneur who reads one regulation, and in a bank or in a tax administration, it experiences something quite different. I think a joint agreement between the three responsible for using the seal would be beneficial for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32510	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32511	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, my question today concerns, namely the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but also the Ministry of Justice because it treats, among other things, the decision of the Administrative Court. My question is - who and how will answer and who will compensate for the material damage to Vračar citizens because of the illegal decision of the Vračar City Municipality Assembly? Is this the president of Vracar Municipality of Vračar Aleksandar Ivanovic, is the president of the municipality, Ms Tijana Dragojevic or the former president of Vracar municipality, Mr Branimir Kuzmanovic, who insisted on such a decision? On June 30th of this year, despite several warnings fired, the Vračar City Municipality Assembly made an illegal decision that the Administrative Court annulled and ordered a new session at which a decision would be taken in accordance with the law. This new session will cause significant and unnecessary costs for the citizens of Vračar and the question is who will bear the consequences for this arrogant behaviour of the government in Vračar. As head of the SNS parliamentary group in Vračar City Municipality, I filed a complaint with the Administrative Court, which adopted my appeal and annulled the Vračar City Municipality's resolution by estimating that it was not in accordance with the law. This is another in a series of examples of what the nature of the DS government is on Vrakar. How the heads of Vračar municipality experience power in this municipality and how they understand the concept of municipal administration in the first place. I don't think it's just a question of a city municipality, I don't think it's just a question of one city, one local self-government, I think it's a case of every place where the government does what's left of the DS. It is important to them, and we have shown this countless times exclusively to find a way that at all costs they will survive in power by not choosing funds and completely neglecting citizens' interests. I'll remind you of something else. I will remind you that the recent president of Vracar municipality Branimir Kuzmanovic was forced to resign because of a recommendation from the competent authority, due to a recommendation from the Anti-Corruption Agency where he found himself in a conflict of interest which was unequivocally established, or proven. I will remind myself of a whole series of other affairs that have shaken this Belgrade municipality for years, but they are still shaking today. I will also remind you of the report by the DRI, which showed a huge number of errors and irregularities in the work of this city's municipality, and by the way, we expect soon information about how far it has been and what the criminal report has been filed, I will repeat, therefore, the DRI, as well as several misapplications filed by the same authority. This occasion also reminds me of some other abuses such as abuses when the appointment of the assistant president of Vracar City Municipality when it was found that in one calendar year, as many as 16 different persons were appointed to the post of assistant president of Vračar City Municipality, the budget of Vračar City Municipality has been significantly damaged. So, that's not all, I'll remind you that the criminal situation in public enterprises and institutions whose founder is the Vračar Municipality Assembly, I'll remind you of the arrogant behaviour of the municipal government, everything that happens in the period of two sessions of the Vračar City Municipality Assembly. The good news for Vračar citizens is that we are close, I would say, a step away from the local elections that will be held in December of this year and that citizens will finally have the opportunity to punish adequately the arrogant and irresponsible power of the DS in Vrakar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32512	Thank you. Since no one's answering for the word anymore, we're going back to work. We would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dragan Sutanovac, Jovana Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Milena Ćorilić, Branko Ružić, Đorđe Caparkaba, Aida Ćorović and Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure for the purpose of considering proposals for actions in the agenda set out in the Government's request to hold an emergency session. You were delivered the minutes of the 11th and 12th extraordinary sessions as well as the 4th special sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 26 and 29 June 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – 29, out of 183 present MPs. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 2 July and 7 July 2015. Please vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 158, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 23, out of 181 MPs present. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 13 July 2015. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 21, of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament with a session of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3), paragraph 3. The Constitution and Article 48(3) Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an emergency session with a specific agenda. As you could see, the following agenda D n e n e d: 1. Proposal for a law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Bonding and Fundamentals of Property - Legal Relations in Air Traffic, 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, 4. Proposal for a law confirming a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on extradition, 5. Proposal for a Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on mutual legal assistance in civil and commercial matters, and 7. Proposal for a decision to elect a republican public prosecutor. Here you go. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, respected guests and guests from the Ministry, respected National Assembly President Mrs. Gojkovic, I believe that a member of our 87th National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Gojkovic, in whose position 1 writes - National Assembly sessions are held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours with a one-hour break. Mrs. Gojkovic, our session of the National Assembly today begins, as we all testify here at 1:00pm, gentlemen, past this rule written in Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I believe it was the duty of President Gojkovic to inform us here today why our Assembly didn't start working today. Mrs. Gojkovic, at 10:00, as stated in article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rather than begin, honored gentlemen with a three-hour delay. It was necessary, I think, to give an explanation why we're three hours late today. Dear gentlemen, Mrs. Gojkovic, I think it is very important that we remind ourselves this occasion that our National Assembly is a central political institution in our constitutional system, that citizens expect that we, the MPs here, be an example, Mrs. Gojkovic, in respect of what we call the rules, in respect of the law, that other people, when they observe our work here, say, see that the rules are followed in the Assembly, not instead of breaking one rule and that, by the way, Mrs. Gojkovic, we do not get an explanation why it was necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32514	Thank you. It was precious to hear your opinion. So it says, as a rule, that's one rule. It's different since 10:00. So 1300 hours fits perfectly, and we weren't late, but it's scheduled for 13.00 hours, for precision. So we started almost on time, with four or five minutes late. Article 87 is not hurt by anything, and now we're going to continue the work soon, so it won't be until 6:00, but it'll be longer. Shall we vote for the injury? (No) The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32515	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, position 1 Madam President, and I will not ask for the violation of the Rules of Procedure to be observed, except that I will agree with the previous speaker that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a central political institution and that we should be respected, respected by the presence, but also respected when we are not present, to report to the National Assembly, that we are not able to attend the meetings of the National Assembly. Last week was a session of the National Assembly and last week we worked in full synergy and full capacity and just before, when Mr. Pavicevic answered, I expected him to make an apology, because for his absence from the National Assembly, at least he could inform the president that he was going to be away, at least he could let us know that he was going to rest while we were working here, but instead of apologizing, he's not responding to what we started at 13.00 hours, and we'll work until we're done. That is why I think it is necessary for the National Assembly to respect the hard work and the relationship with the work that we have been entrusted with, but by respecting the Rules of Procedure from first to last, and one of these members determines that we should report when we are not able to attend the National Assembly session. This is what Mr Pavicevic did not do last week, and now at least I can expect him to report to the Rules of Procedure or otherwise, and to give us an apology on behalf of it, not to read to us here, which is why it is 1300 hours, and we will work until we are done, as we will do and vote on its amendments and when he is not present in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32516	Thank you. So we're not voting? (No) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, honored guests and guests from the Ministry, respected National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, I am now advertising the violation of the member of our Rules of Procedure, which defines the right of the MP to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly. Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Babic has now applied for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, advertised article 107, and did not explain how the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was injured, but Mrs. Gojkovic, resented me for not reporting for your absence last week. Two things I have to tell you, Mrs. Gojkovic and all the MPs, I signed up neatly, gentlemen, last week that I was going to be away from last session and it was read here that I was going to be absent from the session of respected gentlemen, and it can be checked here, the citizens who listened to the transmission, must have heard that I would not be here, honored gentlemen, and apparently Mr. Babic was not here and he wasn't listening, and now he's saying something that isn't true. Another thing, Mrs. Gojkovic, I was in Germany last week, participating as a member of a delegation in the signing of the Agreement, respected gentlemen, between the University of Constants, where Dr. Zoran Djindjic and the University of Belgrade, the Faculty of Political Sciences, which provides, respected gentlemen, that every year eight of our students of the Faculty of Political Sciences can, without investing a dinar and a cent, spend an entire semester at the University of Constanto, perfect themselves, learn and return to their country to study, respected gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32518	Ambassador, thank you, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32519	That's what I've been doing in Germany all week.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32520	Thank you, thank you. I hope we're done here. We did. Shall we vote? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Yes. Yes. Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours, for the purpose of bringing in acts from the agenda of this session. National MP Zoran Babic proposed that, in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, a common principle-specific search be carried out on the proposal for a law on air, rail and water accidents, the draft law amending the Law on Bonding and Foundations of Property Relations in Air Traffic and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States of America, and a joint single investigation into the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Extradition, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Turkey on Mutual Legal Assistance in Civil and Commercial Affairs. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word about this? (No) Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted 33 out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal and we move to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Zoran Ilic, Nena Tomović and Leposava Sojic, Deputy Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure and Mirjan Cizarov, Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review of the draft law on air, rail and water traffic accidents, the draft law amending the Law on Bonding and Foundations of Property and Legal Relations in Air Traffic and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. Does the proposalor's representative, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32521	Thank you. Dear Presidents, dear MPs, there are three important laws in front of you today, one is an air traffic agreement with the United States. By adopting such an agreement in parliament, we are indeed entitled to provide direct flights to Serbia and the United States. The last such flight was in May 1992, was another attempt in 2003, but the system was not put in place in the best way. So, the air traffic agreement with the United States is a good agreement, and I hope that in the debate we will confirm, not only economically and economically, but also politically. The second law in front of you is the law amending the Law on Obligation and Property Law in Air Traffic, which we tried to further determine the terminology of an existing law that has about 180 members. Here, 11 members are changed in this amendment, of course, to comply further with EU directives, and all in order to always put the rights of passengers first and to make it a priority in this law as well. The directorate will be the body, is the body responsible for implementing this law. The third, very important law for the first time in Serbia is the draft law on the investigation of accidents in rail, air and water transport. The question of accident research in these three types of traffic can be found in several laws. This is the first time that this is now united in one law and I hope that in one quality debate that we will have MPs will accept this law, that is, the bill of law. Among other things, by adopting a law like this, a bill that we can promote together here, the first phase of the agreement on a single airspace ends. In this way, Serbia is the only country in the region that will meet its first phase, because it is an agreement that is being made, that is, established between the EU and the countries of the region. What is significant for this law, which I would especially point out, is why we do it with one law and what is all being established by this law. First of all, this law should allow us to identify clear causes when accidents occur, whether they are accidents in air, rail or water transport, to establish on this basis certain recommendations on what it is necessary to do so so that such accidents no longer occur, or to increase the safety of passengers, and on the other hand, in order to certainly affect certain costs. For your information, for the last three and a half years there have been 2,180 different events, accidents or accidents, 150 people have been killed when we talk about these three types of traffic, and the biggest blow for all of us is the loss of human life, but the same, and not the same, but the additional costs that arise, and that is the loss for Serbia for these three and a half years at 271m euros. This law should, by this law and by the adoption of this law, set up a centre for the investigation of accidents and accidents, the very centre that will unite research for all three types of traffic. So, like I said about air and water traffic and about railways. In some EU countries, there are special centres for each of these species, meaning disaster research. We were guided by the idea that we could be economical and efficient enough to be able to deliver results and if we had one center, so the bill provides for the establishment of an accident and accident research centre. I hope that today and of course through the amendments, if possible, we will improve this law. I suppose we will, in principle and according to the amendments, discuss the details of the law, but I also hope that MPs in these next two days will have the opportunity not only to get more detailed knowledge of the law, get answers from all of us and then, of course, these laws hope that MPs will adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32522	Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Does anyone report from the authorities, from the heads of the parliamentary groups, do you want anyone to come forward or should I switch to the list? The word is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32523	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, the SPO will vote in favour of air, rail and water accidents law and for the Agreement amending the Law on the Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations in Air Traffic and for confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, of course with the DHSS, with which we form a joint parliamentary club. What I wanted to point out is that the agreement with the United States promotes the right of passengers as number one and develops a further competition and competition of airlines, then the competition in providing as high-quality services as possible, without discrimination, without dominant, or monopoly, the development of new competitive prices and services and the highest degree of passenger safety, these are all somehow the main principles of the SPO, as far as many areas are concerned, because we believe that without all of these factors, without strong competition and without a monopoly position, we cannot reach these desired effects. What you have suggested in one sentence is that this Agreement has a good and political sound. The Serbian Renewal Movement is absolutely aware of the fact, regardless of what we are largely as a political party and we advocate closer relations with the Russian Federation and that we absolutely respect this historic and every connection between Serbia and the Russian Federation, we also absolutely understand the relationship of power in the world and, when it comes to the United States, we are aware of all those wounds, primarily because of NATO bombings in 1999, which are still fresh in our people. On the other hand, we are absolutely aware of the fact that we must turn one new page, that the Republic of Serbia has turned one new page in the development of relations between our country and the United States and, in any case, has resulted in the good relations of this government with the US government and the very successful visit of Prime Minister Vukic to the United States. To me, a statement made by the prime minister after that visit is absolutely optimistic and crucial. We no longer have the United States as an opponent in the world. We have a slight breeze on their side, given our recent events and recent experiences, certainly something that is good and SPO fully supports such and foreign policy and all agreements that are concluded at the level of the two states' governments. As for the amendment of the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations in Air Traffic, we're coming back to something similar. It's the passenger who puts himself first in air traffic. So far, these passenger rights have been foreseen in such a way that passengers have the minimum right to compensation for damages and assistance in the event of cancellation and cancellation of flights, delays in flights, but not the right to compensation for flight delays. Now, and that it's a private trip and that it's a tourist trip, the passenger in any case suffers damage. Special damage suffered by passengers in air traffic is the case of cancellation of flights, and the non-execution of certain jobs and major damage suffered by passengers as natural persons or their companies, companies that they represent and postpone or lose important jobs. That's why we feel that changing these provisions is very important. I think it is a good idea to increase the rights of persons with disabilities and with reduced mobility in air traffic, because this is a particularly sensitive category of persons that this law has not forgotten, regardless of which they are both EU directives and compliance with EU rules, I think that without that kind of agreement, that the state should respond to the demands of those persons in the most positive sense. What's also good is that the register is being registered for the lease of aircraft, because let's not forget that the aircraft is a very dangerous means of movement, which finishes a number of jobs, but which, in the event of some harmful events, can cause great damage to property and human lives. That is why it is necessary in the register, where all property rights are entered, in addition to property rights, to be entered and leased. We're coming to the Law on Air, Railway and Water Traffic Accident Research. I believe that all those who did not deal with traffic in this way believe that this law is not particularly important and that the establishment of this centre, which was formed only for the area of air traffic. Since I have worked for ten years in insurance and have monitored the occurrence of car accidents in all types of traffic and damage that are more than large in such cases, I am absolutely aware of what it means to be such a center. For what? For example, in EU countries, the loss of one human life, in addition to an immeasurable loss, because the greatest loss is the loss of human life, costs insurance companies and the state, health care, all services that have their own material costs, about a million euros. So, in addition to the loss of human life, where you, ministers, have potentiated as the greatest loss, huge losses can occur in the case of the transport of goods of great value, and usually both rail and river or maritime traffic and air traffic, often deal with the transport of a very high value of goods. Then these are non-priced means of transport. There's no cheap aircraft, no cheap boat, no cheap tow locomotives, and that's just how they're involved in traffic. That's why it's a good thing one of these bodies was formed. I fully understood that it should have a pre-emptive function, because investment in prevention, you have provided an economic analysis here of how much it costs, as regards the employment of six experts who will be employed in 2016, but global analyses show that every investment in this type of prevention is cost-effective. One dinar of investment in prevention can often bring you ten dinars as to what you've prevented from happening as a car accident. Therefore, and because of the fact that this body will give orders, recommendations, inform all domestic organisations, from the ministry and all other relevant, including international organisations dealing with this problem, this area is indeed a very, very important area. Secondly, what does not burden investigators and experts who determine the causes of these accidents, is that they are not even burdened by the result of the investigation carried out by the state authorities, in terms of the determination of guilt and criminal provisions, that is another type of investigation and internal investigations carried out by appropriate organisations, companies or other organisations. Because of this kind of unburdenedness, because of the fact that the ministry itself can give recommendations on how to better change certain laws, how to change sublegal acts, what is it that can be a particular obstacle, let's say, if it comes to sailing in the Danube, regardless of what is mapped and so on. black dots or dangerous points, etc., all that's variable. There aren't any black spots today, but they can show up tomorrow, etc. So there's a lot of regulations that need to be changed, that's all living matter that changes every day, year after year. As a result, we believe that this minimum investment that the state in the budget will have in the existence of one such centre will absolutely have its justification through the work of a centre. I am sure that only the preventive prevention of the creation of a species of these three accidents would absolutely justify the investment of all funds not only on an annual basis, but on a multi-annual level, as regards employee earnings. What is also good is that working groups are formed and that centre staff has the opportunity to hire other experts from different areas, which will also deal with investigations into these accidents and prevention of future accidents. The third thing, meaning that the type of security recommendations that the centres give are very important, will benefit from both the ministry and legal persons dealing with this type of transport and the natural persons and, for these reasons, which in our opinion are the key reasons of the SPO and the DHSS will support all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32524	Here you go. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32525	Thank you. The three laws of the law that are in the debate, the draft law on air accidents and air, rail and water traffic, the draft law amending the Law on Bondation and Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations in Air Traffic, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, are such that it is the easiest to give their voice to the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of the United States, with a reminder that a similar agreement was in force during 2003 and 2004 and that it is good that the previous agreements between the State Department and the Government are terminated and the circles to allow for regular civil flights, co-operation with airlines, so we hope that good timetables for passengers travelling in business or tourism, both private and for entrepreneurs to be found in such an agreement. The amendments to the Law on Bond and Foundations of Property and Legal Relations also make it relatively easy to vote for. The basic law was passed in 2011, representing a full newspaper in Serbia's legal system and was presented and should be applied to guaranteeing passengers on all non-business, unfair, past the rules and laws of conduct by, above all, air carriers. And the application of this law has shown that in some cases passengers who are damaged by the fact that without any prior notice, a plane on any of the flights for which the ticket has been purchased is inexplicably delayed, to the loss of connection if a passenger with a ticket having a transfer to airports to damage the property of under-behavior personnel or a ban on access to individual persons. So it's all this law that predicted that in application, it enables people to be protected from their rights. The changes and additions are relatively small. I have one single question, which was raised on the Committee on European Integration, along with several amendments that I have submitted together with fellow Members of the People's Parliaments and on this law on bond and property law relations in air traffic, as well as on the law on accident research, which is that, for example, in Article 8, paragraph 1, the amendments and additions of the Law replace the words "anordinating a travel organisation contract" replaced by the term or the words "arrange the rights and obligations of the package of arrangements". We're sure it should remain in the law, but it's not something that's defining whether the law votes. It is important for this law to be applied, because these amendments and additions that are proposed to simplify or clarify, or based on experiences for the last three and a half years, how much is the law in force, what happens to the right of passengers to whom the non-business approach of the airline is damaged? What happens to paying back? What happens to hotel accommodation, issuing a new airline, giving a second route, if it is without its own guilt, or the responsibility of the airline passenger, passengers, families, groups, whatever, is left without being able to arrive at the final destination at the time when it is done to it, as well as the obligations of the air carrier when it is called on these members of the law to provide meals and refreshments in the waiting time, to provide hotel accommodation, if necessary, one or more nights, if it is necessary to stay longer than the passenger planned and to ensure transportation from the airport to the place of accommodation? It is good to look at the application of these provisions, to change them in relation to what we saw in reality to go hard with application and most importantly, it is good that all those who use air traffic, the citizens of RS, have in this law a guarantee that all the damage done to them by non-business traffickers will be compensated for the pre-known procedure. I really hope that this law will routinely be in the process, as is the case with countries where there are longer and where a number of air carriers have come to their senses and does not allow themselves to be harassed by passengers. Unfortunately, this law cannot affect changing security measures. This has brought us fear of terrorism, of attacks at airports, that people whose terrorism is not even in their minds go through very often senseless, harassing, slow procedures of security controls, but we all know that it cannot be escaped. When he once asked me about what I think about terrorism, except there's no definition, I said that I would force every arrested person and the defendant's guilty terrorist to go through security controls at airports every day forever because it really turned into a kind of harassment at various airports under similar protocols. I'm saying, it's not about this law, but I do know cases that if, by mistake of airport services, an error of judgment leads to the retention of passengers to have the right to compensation for damages under this law as well. And the law that's new in our legal system about investigating accidents in air, rail and water traffic is the first law I'd like none of its members to be applied because it means that a major accident, whether it's an air, rail or water traffic, has never happened to what's good news for any country, but we know that accidents happen regardless of what they're causing. The experience and history of both aircraft accidents and air accidents, i.e. in air traffic, rail, and water mostly say that the most common cause is man, one who has access to himself, one who transmits information for the management of aircraft, vessel or train, or one who carries out the management or transfer of information on the course of the air, rail or water traffic. The bill is not about how we stop people from making mistakes and taking a large number of people to death or causing damage to the owners of aircraft, trains, ships or damage to the environment, which is the same as a serious accident, as an accent in various cases. So the task of this law is to first have prepared all security assessments and all the measures for these three cases of traffic, and in that part the law is clear in most of its members. Of course, by forming a special organisation and selecting a director on a proposal from the Prime Minister, it is a bit of an unusual measure, not for the first time, it has appeared earlier that the Prime Minister is putting himself to propose, I don't mind, I don't know why it's logical, but good. Therefore, the establishment of a special organisation to be managed by a director who is known in advance to have working experience in the investigation of accidents and that he must have a natural qualification to be proposed. We have several amendments, which can be treated as important or irrelevant, about years of experience that has such a person, whom the Prime Minister will propose and about parts of the text that he stands in, for example. that the minister prescribes the contents of the report. We believe that it does not prescribe the content of the accident report, but the form of the content, but in the discussion in particular. What my key question was also on the Committee on European Integration and here Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, we introduce this law a new body, conditionally speaking to the body, I know what a special organisation is, so these are people who will be subject to the Law on State Servants and the procedure for the appointment of directors for five years, and in certain members it is indicated that sublegal acts that are crucial to be co-operation protocols. Since I think every law that we're talking about should be considered so that it's applied, hypothetically to say -- here, it's now applied, let's see what's going on. I don't like what the example here is, for example, a railway accident, serious, but I don't know how to read the laws differently, but through what impact the provisions in the law are going to have on individual citizens or citizens of Serbia, on a group of people or on a part of the system for which we are all responsible, in this case it's both the police and the prosecution and insurance companies and the Law on Security and Work of the Government, and the Law on Government and, finally, we. So, it happened, wherever you want to go in the location, I'm not going to name the location, X-Yellon, not to baksu, because I don't want this law to be applied ever, at 23.53 a railway accident in Serbia's territory, is an international line, means a corridor across the Danube, and so seven of the 12 cars jumped out of the tracks and there was a waste of dangerous cargo, and that there was an explosion that threatened the first houses in the settlement. So we have that at 23.53 a.m. some day, which I hope will never dawn. What I'm interested in is -- what does the director, who informs whom, what does he have access to, when? I know how there's been a notification of such an accent and who's involved, for now, and I know the shortcomings due to the lack of mutual cooperation between different services, parts of the organs or organizations that have a very similar job of action. This is gonna be a new body. So, the answer that this will be regulated by sublaws is not enough, since we, MPs, do not have access to sublegal acts, that we have experience with various governments that a large number of laws are never applied because a sublegal act is not passed and we have a problem with what is happening on the ground because there are no or no sublegal acts. So the law says – The Center for the Study of Accidents does not deal with determining criminal responsibility, does not deal with crime, does not deal with personal responsibility, they are responsible for saying what happened, why it happened and how it happened. In order for them to say that, they have to be in the field. In order for them to be in the field, someone has to let them know. They're not an integrated part of the Emergency Centre at the moment, they're not an integrated part of any part of the MUP, they're a special organization. When and when there is a protocol that someone will report to the Centre, the Centre must have a protocol in which it will cooperate with others whose job is to establish criminal responsibility, to collect evidence, because by law, the Centre is here to collect and preserve evidence. That must be done in cooperation. Not to be slow, I'm not against the definition of the Center for the Research of Accidents, on the contrary, I think they're going to have a big job waiting for them, and there's no accident in security measures, but if I want to vote for the law, I want to hear from the legislator that they predicted that this new body would lie down, under the presumption, in a system that already exists as a new special organization. A series of new responsibilities given to the Director of the Research Centre, his associates, are responsibilities that will cross with other authorities, which are also coming to the scene of the accident. The clearest part is the one where the accident research centre informs the international organisation. That part is clear, but it's already happening when he has something to tell him. A member of the law says the Centre is making a decision within seven days to draw up a report. I'm talking about the moment when the incident occurred, whether human victims or not, so if they weren't involved from the first moment the incident occurred, whether it was rail, water or air traffic, when would they be involved? If they're going to be involved at some other point, based on what sublegal act? Therefore, in the members of the laws describing the competences of the Centre, this can be interpreted. It's my experience that whenever it can be interpreted, it's interpreted as harmful, not beneficial. I don't know why it's going like that, but whoever has the power to interpret something will interpret it wrongly, to the harm of the users, or to the harm of the one for whom the law is passed. Meaning that it is explained why there is no road traffic here and that, of course, it is legitimate that in some countries you have a Center for different types of traffic, what is still important to me is that the law mentions the databases, and that it is not clear who will be in charge of these databases forming, how will the databases be formed, what kind of sublegal acts will determine the jurisdiction for handling the database, etc.? If it's a public database, is it the obligation of the Research Centre or not? Air Force Directorate, what about the railway and water traffic database? I repeat, in a member who defines when the Centre informs the ministry, he says – must notify the Ministry and competent international organisations within seven days of the decision-making day. I also miss that channel of protocol and communication between the ministry in general, I know what it means, but also special organizations. Unfortunately, I've witnessed many unnecessary problems, because you don't know who's on the phone and why and what happens afterwards. What's more obvious than what the law says is how to finance the Centre, how to finance prevention. I suppose such a centre will have to have experts from various areas, and in order for them to be paid, it must be foreseen in the budget, but I guess we won't put it with the mind of the 2016 budget. Of course, as one of the worst dictators said during the 20th century when he talked about how problems are solved, he said a sentence – the frames solve everything. I don't like to quote dictators. They add different names, such as canda is a competition for dictators in progress, i.e. last name. It's about the long-dead Jugashvili, so the frames solve everything. I know that Serbia has people who know this job. I don't see that they're going to be involved in the Centre by nature, and I'd like to see that we also know that the security measures are in all three modes of traffic, in air, rail, water, safe hands. I have no reason to doubt it's different. But I have reason to ask you for clarifications when it comes to sublegal acts, when it comes to protocols within the ministry, and special organizations, which will be formed, and the director who will be elected by the Prime Minister, but also protocols and sublegal acts, with all others who, within their jurisdiction, participate in or in the prevention of accidents of this kind, or participate in the resolution when, therefore, never dawned on that day, some kind of accident that I've given as an example, a railroad, on an international rail, with an accent, with an explosion, with human casualties. So, what happens then? How does the accident research centre work and based on what acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32526	The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32527	I thank you for your suggestions, especially the questions you've asked. I'm going to start with this last law, a bill on accident research, about exactly the center that needs to be formed. Until the moment it starts to work, that is, to apply this law, of course all the other laws in the area of traffic, so now I'm not talking about the laws of the Ministry of the Interior, etc. which do not change in any sense, I am only talking about traffic laws, whether in the railway area, or in the area of internal navigation, they are changing and they will one moment cease to exist in that part of the accident research, when the accident research centre begins to work. And he's going to start working when you finish the sublegal act you're talking about. My position here is similar to yours for previous laws, which is that the sublaw, if possible, should always be ready when the law comes to parliament. The Law on Planning and Construction we have already managed in three months to complete the sublegal act, and then, no matter what two years are mentioned, we have consulted and here, regarding this law, the sublaw will be maximum, the deadline is one year, because the acts are very serious. We've finished three so far, only three sublegal acts are being prepared and there are ten of them, and I'm not sure we can make it through the next three months. But then, just at that moment, we can tell about a law that really applies and where the accident research centre can do its job the right way. However, when there is an accident, as you have already set an example, hypothetically, at that point operators, whether in the rail, whether in the air or in the water traffic, inform, in addition to the MUP they normally inform, that moment and the lead investigators and together appear and operate on the ground, i.e. provide space, etc. It will be up to the tiny details specified, but only related to the accident research centre. What is important and what is often mixed, the accident research centre is not there to determine the culprit, it is not there to do the work of the MUP, the accident research centre is dealing with the cause, what and why a certain accident happened, and based on certain recommendations and orders to what should be done in the next period. That other part of the job is actually done by the M.O.P., the D.A.'s office, and it's what the rules call it. I also agree with you in one, in terms of self-functioning of the centre and personnel at the centre, and people who will work at the accident research centre, that it must be people of integrity, with great experience, who are able to have three very important areas, therefore, within the centre there will be for each area, both water and rail and air traffic for people who will be involved in research in all three areas, but the man who needs to coordinate it must be a man of integrity and experience. I sincerely hope we name it that way. Another important thing about the ministry, which you mentioned, is the ministry's reporting. The Ministry is here to control law enforcement, first of all. Second, the accident research centre can report in one, two or seven days. So, we're not the ones going out in the field, and we're not the ones, when I say we're talking about the Ministry, who's going to deal with what I'd say may have been so far, but just the experts who need to come out and give us the right information. If I skipped something here, you'll ask me again and we'll explain. Regarding the US Agreement, just so the public knows, and you know, in 2001 Serbia lost the so-called. Category one. Without category one, it is not possible to even think about direct flights between Serbia and the United States, or category one, that we are a safe country, which is technically equipped, so that we can carry out this kind of flight. The agreement has been negotiated for almost 10 years. So, it's been a long negotiation. The situation that was in 2003 is next. At that time, JAT Airways had some arrangements with Uzbekistan's "Ervaise" and we actually flew a little less than a year for America, therefore, not from here. Also related to the Law on Bonds, i.e. on property relations in air traffic, we mentioned a package, contracts, arrangements, etc. We are just trying to comply with the directives, to deal in a broader sense with passenger rights. I think this can only be for the benefit of the passengers. You said yourself, from the beginning of the trip to the end of the road we are now and we are in charge, through the directorate, to ask the airline to settle its obligations, or to make damages. I'm sorry if I skipped something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32528	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, let me say that our parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, will vote in favour of all the laws that are on the agenda. But we have noticed a lot of inaccuracies, especially in the draft law on air, rail and water accidents, and we have submitted almost 30 amendments, which I hope you will consider and adopt, because it is certainly in the interest to bring about a better legal solution. First, I'd like to talk about what's not controversial. So we will vote to confirm the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. What I'd like the minister to say, if she has that information, is when can we expect the establishment of air traffic with America and with specific cities? When it comes to the draft law amending the Law on Bonding and Foundations of Property Legal Relations in Air Traffic, we have submitted three amendments. One that we consider important is to add in Article 5(3) that, when booking an air carrier or travel organiser, it is therefore necessary to add the words "or the travel organiser informs the traveller of the procedures for submitting the advertising referred to in Article 1 and 2 of this Article". We have just done so to make changes to this law in accordance with the existing Article 3 paragraph 1 point 30) of the Law, where it is said that the reservation of a document confirming that the passenger has a travel ticket or other proof that the reservation has been accepted and confirmed by an air carrier or travel organiser. So, in order for the law to be in line with itself, we have submitted that amendment, and certainly in the interest of the citizens, i.e. potential passengers. Now let me go back to all the drawbacks we've seen in the draft law on air, rail and water accidents research. At first reading, it seems to me like three teams or three groups wrote this bill and that it was concluded without their agreement. Therefore, some concepts relating to air traffic and water traffic are not in line with rail traffic. Furthermore, the law establishes a traffic accident research centre and provides it with functional and organisational independence, and we believe it is necessary to ensure financial independence. That's what we predicted with the amendments, and we'll explain why. What's really bothering us is that there's no competition planned to set up the lead investigator. In order for it not to happen that some of the owners of the roasters and similar staff that we have been able to see in previous years manage such important areas, we have provided for our amendments that, as the minister says, there are people of integrity and experience, and this certainly enables the call of competitions for the lead investigators, but also for the assistants of the lead investigator. We also insist on protecting personality data, as well as respecting free access to information of public importance. The investigation in such accidents certainly raises great public attention and we feel it is necessary to directly determine by law that respect for free access to information of public importance is necessary. Let me now go back to the terms defined in Article 3. So, Article 3 defines the concept of a ship and the definition of an aircraft, but it's not the definition of a train. Since the law applies to air, rail and water traffic, we feel it is necessary to define and what a train is and what a towed vehicle is and what a tow vehicle is and what a maneuvering system is. I received information on the Committee that this was not included in the bill because it was already defined by some other law. Then there's no need to define this law or aircraft, because it's also defined by some other laws. Inconsistencies in the definition of accident, i.e. The accident is seen at point 5, where it is said to be a very serious maritime accident, a maritime accident resulting in complete loss of ship, death or serious pollution of the marine environment resulting from the operation of the ship. So that we don't interpret whose death, because they can be humans, and they can be animals, it doesn't say in the law whose death it refers to, we predict that it refers to the death of one person, but we also inserted and aligned it with point 14, where it says-- the death of at least one person or a serious injury to five or more persons, or causing major damage to railway vehicles when defining a serious accident in railway traffic. So, the serious accident in rail traffic was well defined and that is precisely proof of the fact that the law was written by three groups and that they did not comply with each other when they made a joint bill. Therefore, a serious accident in rail traffic is well defined and predicts that there is a death of at least one person or a serious injury to five or more persons, while for a maritime accident it writes only – death, without any indication of what it refers to or whose death it refers to. In Article 5, we predicted that the centre was independent in work and functional, organisational and financial independence. So we think that this centre simply has to be financially independent, so that his work doesn't happen to depend on the political influence of any individual. This, therefore, is being amended by Article 5, and also by Article 8, where the funds for the work of the centre are said to be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, we say that the funds are provided in the budget, which means there must be a special appraisal, not that the funds are provided through some ministry or other agency. Article 6 defines that the centre is managed by a lead investigator who has the position of director of a special organisation. The chief investigator sets up the government for five years, on a proposal from the Prime Minister. So, I repeat, we predicted that it would be after the competition, and also that the assistant chief investigators would appoint the government for five years, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, but necessarily after the competition. As regards harmonisation of the concepts, since we have already said that the lead investigator is a representative and representative of this centre, we believe that Article 9 and the title above Article 9 should not say "director", but "main investigator" because he has that function. In order to avoid abuse of official legislation, and we are witnessing that in public it is constantly potential on some passports that have been issued in one way or another, we have predicted that persons who have official legitimacy are obliged to return these official IDs or to cancel them after they have ceased their duties. What can also be useful to the public is the composition of a mixed civil-military commission. It's defined here when a mixed civil-military commission is formed and when it investigates an accident or a serious accident. What we predicted was that when a military aircraft crash occurred that carried civilians, that is. When such an accident has civilian casualties, it is also necessary for a mixed civil-military commission to investigate such an accident. We are not satisfied with the definition in Article 22, where it is envisaged that the traffic accident research centre is related to other investigating bodies. It is therefore defined in paragraph 2 that the centre may provide technical assistance to competent judicial authorities, at their request, and provide information on an accident or a serious accident, as well as an accident or serious accident report. We think he's in debt, not he can, because what he can mean is he doesn't have to. We believe that he is also obliged to provide technical assistance and to provide information on an accident or a serious accident, as well as an accident or a serious accident report, to the competent judicial authorities at their request. We're coming up with a chapter on the investigation report. We believe that the 12 months from the date of the accident or the serious accident is too long to publish the report. We believe that six months is enough, with the idea of a temporary report, that in case the accident was so complicated and that the investigation was so demanding, that the centre is then obliged to give a provisional report within six months, and that the final report within 12 months, of course, with an explanation of why he was unable to give an adequate report within six months. As for the transparency of the work of the centre, in many places we have provided for amendments that statements, reports, etc., about the work of the centre are necessarily published on the internet presentation or website of the Traffic Research Centre, in order to, of course, increase the transparency of the work of the centre to the greatest extent possible. When the investigation is in the area of rail traffic, we say that the lead investigator has a discretionary right to decide whether to open an investigation of other accidents and accidents, not the Centre, because yet, we believe that he has to do so by an authorised person, and the Centre as the Centre cannot do so on his own. The lead investigator, therefore, needs to make a decision on this. It remains unclear when it comes to forwarding information to the Ministry and the European Railway Agency within which time period the Centre is obliged to do so. We have defined the deadline, of course, because the law does not define the deadline, we have defined the time limit of 15 days. Also, there's confusion when it comes to a security investigation, because in Article 36 where it is defined, its purpose is that it is done before the accident and that it has a preventive character. However, Article 38, which lists the research obligations, says that after a very serious maritime accident and a maritime accident, a security investigation must be conducted if. We simply predicted that the word "safe" should be deleted, because the security investigation has a function of prevention, and it is necessary to carry out these investigations before the accident, and that only an investigation is carried out after the accident. The amendments, given that the subject matter of this law is very delicate, have cut deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts to six months. We know that the minister is worth it, so here we are setting up a task, and we will see if you are able to accomplish it. We really think that what is stated in the bill, two years from the date of entry into force of this law on the adoption of sublegal acts, is simply too long and we think that six months is quite enough for the adoption of sublegal acts. So, let me repeat, the SDS Parliamentary Group Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, will support all three draft laws, but once again I ask you to take a good look at our proposals, because I think it is necessary that we adopt a quality legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32530	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32531	Thank you for your comments. A few of the facts you mentioned, we will certainly adopt through the amendments, for example. carrier and travel organizer. We agree with that, I had already spoken and answered the MPs, Mrs. Comic, said that there would be no two years of sublaw but would be a year. I'm not sure, we'll try to make it sooner, but we can't put six months, we've already reduced it to one at two. As far as the financial independence of the Center for the Research of Accidents is concerned, I believe that money must be defined from the budget and that this is a way for them to be financially independent, not any other way of independence, because that would just endanger independence. You mentioned that the appointment of the director, or that there would be no competition, I don't know where you read it. Article 6 states very clearly – a person appointed as the main investigator of the sea, in addition to the conditions prescribed by the law governing the work on the position of civil servants, and therefore the work on the position of civil servants is governed by the Law on civil servants, which assumes that there is a competition, that there is also adequate expertise in the research of accidents and at least 10 years of work experience in air or rail or water transport, is now also relevant to the assistant, etc. So it doesn't say there's no competition, so let me get this straight. And your question, among other things, is when will be the first flights, direct flights to the United States. The estimate is either the end of the year or the first quarter of next year at the latest. And thank you for supporting these three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32532	The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32533	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow ministry associates, MPs, we are facing today an important package of laws, as we are discussing a package of legislation that regulates the areas of traffic. Of course, it is also extremely important for the development of the state itself, because we know that the development of the economy depends on the development of traffic and traffic infrastructure. In this regard, I believe that the state is obliged to provide all the preconditions for the development of transport, from legislative, as I said, to infrastructure, then, to support all entities in the transport system with regard to prevention and in particular to provide support for the removal of the consequences of the accident. Traffic resor is extremely complex. It combines four types of traffic, which, each for itself, we can say, are extremely complex systems. Unlike road traffic, which for the majority of traffic is an integral part of daily life of water, air and rail traffic, for citizens are the most common means of transport used as passengers or are users of some other services. The number of accidents, accidents and accidents is generally smaller when it comes to these types of traffic compared to road traffic, but the consequences can be far greater. This is one of the common denominators for air, water and rail traffic, so the most logical solution is the adoption of one law that will in a unique way regulate all procedures and procedures in the event of an accident. This law, we can say, represents a kind of codification of the provisions in the case of car accidents. So far, the investigation of accidents in these three types of traffic has been regulated by the Air Traffic Act, the Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways, the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters and the Law on Maritime Navigation. By passing this law, we will arrange the area of disaster research, make it practical and efficient, increase traffic safety and reduce the possibility of accidents and accidents. The law directly affects air, rail and water transport entities, infrastructure managers themselves, traffic controllers, then transport operators, traffic equipment manufacturers, regulatory bodies and certainly service users. The law forms a Traffic Accident Research Centre, which will represent, would say, a roof institution that will professionally conduct investigation procedures in case of accidents. We see that the aim of setting up this centre is not only to investigate accidents but also to act indirectly because it can also influence transport security through its investigations and then to make recommendations based on the investigation. European practice in recent years is precisely this nature. Namely, the laws of the regulatory bodies or special bodies in the framework of the State dealing with these investigations are established. One example from the region is Croatia, which just has an agency covering investigations from these three types of traffic. Our centre will be managed by a top investigator who has one assistant for each type of traffic, regardless of who is the founder of the government and whatever the official status of the official and who owns the official ID. I would say that this law is about independence in their work and that is extremely important for investigative procedures. The Socialist Party of Serbia supports all the solutions that contribute to the overall increase in security and we certainly support the establishment of this centre, this institution that will play a multiple role in the transport system. I would like to say to the public that this is not another one in a series of unnecessary public institutions, public agencies or regulatory bodies, but rather, this will be one expert body that the Republic of Serbia needs. Not only for accident research, but as I said about prevention, as well as the development of transport in Serbia itself. And as stated in the law, this centre is in fact taking over the role of the existing air traffic accident research centre, thus extending its competence and work to both rail and water transport. Dear Minister, during the analysis of this law, we were asked some questions about the methodology of the accident and how the government's emergency plan was adopted. A similar dilemma was presented by her colleague Gordana Comic in her presentation. Namely, what it's about. Article 14 of the bill states that an emergency aid plan involving transport, accommodation and medical assistance to victims and their families is brought by the Government in the event of an accident. My question is, is it intended for the government to adopt this plan on the basis of a recommendation from the centre itself, or do you think it would be a good idea for the centre to have a task to develop possibly some protocol under which the government would adopt an emergency plan in the future? In this regard, we have proposed three amendments which, possibly in a more precise way, could identify measures for the handling of competent institutions as well as for all entities in the event of major accidents. Under major accidents, of course, it depends on the kind of traffic we're talking about, whether it's air, rail or water traffic. We have proposed by amendment that the centre prepare a special protocol on the handling of these cases or that the centre be obliged as an expert body to make recommendations to the Government in the process of adopting emergency plans for specific cases. We'll talk about them in detail. The draft law on changes and additions to the Law to bonds and grounds of property legal relations in air traffic will later be discussed by my colleague, Neđo Jovanovic, and I would briefly refer to the Law on Confirmation of Air Traffic Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. The ratification of this agreement has been waiting for some time, and the SAA will also support this bill. I would like to remind you that in 2010, we adopted the Air Traffic Act, which practically allowed us to normalise air traffic operations and create preconditions for signing such agreements. The transformation of JAT into "Er Serbia" has improved the business of the airport itself, thus improving both safety and service performance in air traffic. When we adopted amendments and amendments to the Air Traffic Act two months ago, we also mentioned that this agreement would end by the end of the summer, and you promised as Minister, that we would ratify this agreement by the end of the summer. We also talked about the fact that there have been no intercontinental flights between the Republic of Serbia and the United States in the last 23 years. The first time the flights were suspended in 1992 for sanctions, and you mentioned 2003, 2004, also the first one to be restored, and then because of the lack of regulatory and non-compliance of Serbian air standards and procedures, the co-operation was interrupted again. This ratification gives us the basis for opening, of course, new intercontinental flights after, as I said, 23 years. This is twice as important, especially for Nikola Tesla Airport in terms of further development of its infrastructure, especially when it comes to accessing large-scale aircraft. Of course, there is an increase in standard security as well as conditions for maintaining airports, improving the work of the airport services themselves and, of course, all airport services. At the very end, I would point out that this agreement that we are ratifying today is extremely important, not only for the Republic of Serbia, but also for the Balkans region, that in the previous period, our ministry's consultations with the ministries of the former SFRY members have been carried out, and that all interested parties in terms of wanting Belgrade, or the "Nikola Tesla" airport to be a power airport for America and Canada, that is, for the American continent. Finally, I want to point out that we will vote in favour of this bill, not only for this one, but for all three draft laws, and we hope that these talks, when it comes to co-operation with ministries and airlines from the region, will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32534	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32535	Thank you very much. I think it is very important that such a ratified agreement with the United States ensures that we have direct flights, and because of, of course, of all the advantages that I have said, economic, economic and political, but no one in the region has the possibility to fly directly to the United States for the time being, which means that it will all come together practically on Serbia's territory, or at our "Nikola Tesla" airport, and that is another of the direct benefits that we will have from this agreement. When you mention the draft law on accident research, the emergency plan you mentioned, there can be no protocol. The protocol has no binding fact, there must be very clear procedures, especially since we know what is the subject of this law and the Serbian government is about to bring it. Of course it will bring and work on it the best experts and you, I suppose, wanted to point out, but certainly they have to be clear procedures, and no protocol. And you mentioned something else at the Research Centre, about, of course, to deal with the cause, but what I would particularly point out, the establishment of this centre should really give us a lot on the topic of prevention, because prevention is the basis of increasing passenger safety in all three modes of traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32536	The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32537	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as the Minister said in her opening address, today we have three very important legislative proposals. As for the proposal of the Law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents, I must first of all say that the reason for the adoption of such a comprehensive law is necessary, in order for all modes of traffic to be united by one legal solution. So far, this has not been the case, as we have heard from previous colleagues, that air traffic has only been investigated, and that other traffic aspects have been regulated, by other material laws, so that, as far as air traffic is concerned, this area has been regulated by the Law on air traffic and rail safety and interoperability law, and as far as air traffic is concerned, it has been regulated by the Law on navigation, ports, and internal waters, as well as the Law on maritime navigation. Now we will bring all these regulations together in this bill. However, I would certainly agree with one of the previous speakers, who said that – God forbid we never apply this law. However, one of the primary reasons for the adoption of such a law is certainly the improvement of the transport system in Serbia by introducing, impartial and effective investigations. Of course, we must separate the investigation provided for by this law from the judicial investigation, which primarily deals with guilt and responsibility for the case of the investigation. This law regulates an investigation dealing with the collection and analysis of all those data and all those factors, which led to the accident and taking place, so that this law practically needs to answer three questions – what happened, why, and if there is anything that can be done that never happens again, unlike, as I have already said, from judicial guilt and what is involved in judicial guilt, or judicial investigation, which is the fault and responsibility for the accident that happened. As we have already heard, this law forms a single body for the investigation of accidents, and it is foreseen to be called the Center for the Research of Accidents. This body is meant to be independent in its work. A legal follower is the Centre for the Study of Accidents and Serious Accidents of the Republic of Serbia, as I have already said, this body has previously dealt with accidents, more specifically in air traffic alone. This model is applied for the reason that it is an example of good practice in the European Union and is certainly a recommendation from the European Commission. If we ask who will be directly affected by this law, first of all, I can say that it will affect exactly the entities of air, water and rail traffic, but it will have an indirect effect on all those who use it. So, passengers, freighters, transporters and everything else. We have heard that the implementation of this law requires material resources to be planned for some of the next budgets. It's an envelope of 38 million dinars. I personally would not have read the black statistics of combat accidents, because unfortunately so far we have not had a body that has dealt with such cases, but certainly, as my colleague Mirko Chikiriz said, certainly investing in this kind of prevention will certainly bring many benefits. What we have so far as official data, which is data for 2012 in the Republic of Serbia, is data relating only to rail traffic we have as a consequence of railway accidents that 35 people have been killed and 61 persons have been injured. I'm talking about the data that exists for 2012, which in the budget has made, let me say, the cost of 75 million euros, so that the figure that I've cited in the framework of 38 million dinars, is certainly less than the figure I've mentioned, which applies to only one type of traffic and for only 2012. However, the costs, as I have already stated in what amount, are certainly seen to be minimised and precisely in the way that one body exists, are also reduced. Also, what is interesting to mention is that the first in Europe besides the Netherlands, France and Germany have introduced an investigation into the security of water traffic, or internal navigation. What's important is to say that this law is also one of the laws that goes in step towards harmonising the rules with our legislation, with the regulations of the European Union, and that the law ceases to apply the provisions of the laws that I set out at the outset, which concern the regulation of an investigation that defines only this law. Also, the law provides for the competent ministry to adopt a sublegal act within 12 months, and for the government to adopt the sublegal acts no later than 24 months. As regards the beginning of the work of the centre itself, the Law provides for it to begin on 1 January 2016. It is also very important to point out that this law as well as many legislative proposals that have come from the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, has passed a very broad public debate, that a working group of all those who are interested has previously been formed, who will use this law, and that the bill itself, or the draft law, has long been on the Ministry site, then regional chambers of commerce, as well as on websites of various local self-government. I said that the law passed a very wide public debate, here I will state the cities of which the public debate under this law took place, it is the Great Gradište, Zrenjanin, Novi Sad, Kraljevo, Nis and Belgrade. As regards the second bill of law in the context of this united debate, it is the draft law amending the Law on Bonding Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations in Air Traffic. Certainly, the Serbian Progressive Party wants to continue its European path along with the changes ahead of us today are certainly in step. So we are making this proposal to bring our legislation into line with European Union legislation. As we can see, the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law has 11 members, while the basic text has 180 members, and certainly these provisions protect the rights of passengers more strongly and simplify the procedure. And as the third draft law in today's united debate, it is an air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United States. This agreement that is just ahead of us today is only in favor of the discussion we had a few months ago here in parliament when I was talking about that the national airline had become a leader in the region in the area of air traffic in just a year and a half since its formation. As a contribution, I must repeat that Er Serbia has increased its total air traffic volume by 40% by just a year and a half since its formation, that the number of passengers has increased by 68%, by just one year, by 2.8 million passengers, a profit of 2.7m euros has been achieved, the number of direct flights from 27 to 40 has been increased. Then, the fleet increased, we currently have 23 planes, this has not happened in the past ten years, and, of course, Er Serbia has hired 400 new workers because of the size of business. This is not just what I'm saying, this is what the European Commission said in its reports and said that Serbia has preceded air traffic in relation to all other segments of society and activity. It also states in favour of this that the Federal Air Administration of the United States has assigned the category one air traffic to Serbia, or Er Serbia, and that is why we have today to verify this agreement. Otherwise, direct traffic with America has not taken place since 1992. As we've heard before, the first flights to New York are scheduled by the end of the year or the first quarter of next year. Without a doubt, all these legal proposals that are before us today will be of great benefit and great help to the citizens of Serbia. That's why I invite you to give full support to all these bill proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32538	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? (No) We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The Messenger of the people said to them, Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32539	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues and fellow citizens, today we are discussing a united discussion of three laws. One law is the draft law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water traffic, another law on amending the Law on Bond Law and the basis of property and legal relations in air traffic, and the third is the bill on the approval of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. These first two laws are in fact the harmonisation of our legislation with international regulation, and there are some details that we have seen, and we think they should look different, we're going to talk about it in the voting day, there are no more serious issues. In the Law on traffic accident investigation, citizens had previously been under the jurisdiction of the Directorate, but this was not in line with international regulations, which insisted that this work move on to independent and independent bodies outside the Directorate and the Government themselves. This has been achieved through the chief investigator's office and this law regulates this topic. What I do a little bit need is a professional preparation and a qualification of the chief investigator himself and his assistants. In fact, they're scheduled to have a working experience of nine years, with three years of experience on accident research, so somehow I can't help thinking that the law is written in the light of a specific person, because we have a parallel that in the Air Traffic Act for the Director and Deputy Director of the Directorate predicts a work experience of ten years, so it's a little specificity, where you find nine years, which is not eight, which is not six, which is not twelve or ten, but nine. But about that one. We'll see when you run that personnel list how many years of work experience the gentleman or the lady has had. When it comes to the second law, i.e. The law on bond relations, and as counterpart Senic said, we have submitted 21 amendments to this bill, so I hope that in the voting day we will be able to convince you to accept our amendments in order to make the bill even better. When we talk about the Law on Liabilities and Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic, and this law is a alignment with international regulation, so that nothing can change drastically. What I think you should think about as a proposer is the fact that passengers who are damaged have said a lot about what the benefits of this law are to reduce the possibility of harassing, of having a bad relationship with passengers, of being inexplicably late, of losing a relationship, of being connected, of sitting, but what I think you should think about as a legislator, these are the deadlines that you gave to passengers who have a problem and who are complaining about something. According to what you put in the bill, they must first address the company that violated their right, and this company, in my opinion, has an excessive deadline of 60 days to respond to objections. After that, they can appeal to the directorate for the next 30 days. That means the passenger waits all 90 days. I know it's going to be an explanation that it's in the normative international, but you also know well, since you often travel and that's your job description, that serious companies do it in two, three weeks and that these deadlines are very short and I think it's quite enough for this 60-day deadline to be reduced to 30 days, that it's a commitment, where it's a serious airline, and we have a serious airline on our territory. Other airlines coming to Surcin, i.e. The "Nikola Tesla" is also a serious airline, and the legal regulation should go to meet the damaged passenger, not the capacity and will of the airline. I think we should reduce that deadline to a reasonable measure, i.e. that the deadline for the complaint of the airline is up to 30 days in order to be answered, and on the directorate, it should be the same thing to cut the deadline. The essence of that member, I think that we share a common position, is to protect the passenger maximumly and allow him to be able to do it in good time, not 90 days, that's three months, only to get an answer, so if he's not satisfied to go into the further legal procedure allowed by the law. At the end of my discussion, I would refer to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. I think that's good. I think it is extremely good that we have received category one and the opening of our country and the establishment of intercontinental flights is normal at the height and pride of each of the citizens of Serbia. What I would ask you to comment, we are not all lawyers, we do not understand the interpretation of these agreements and international agreements, and I believe that it interests the citizens of Serbia, does this agreement apply to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, because we know that there are aircraft entities and companies there doing business, so does what we have signed and what we are dealing with the United States automatically apply to Kosovo and Metohija? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32540	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32541	So, as far as this agreement itself is concerned, the last question, there are clear 1244 Resolutions and NATO controls. It is currently a Hungarian air traffic control agency. Regardless, therefore, as I said, the great advantage for Serbia is that it has the possibility of a direct flight to America. I'd especially like to turn around, I'm going from the back like this, first on the Bonding and Property Relations Act. When you mention those 60 days, you said it yourself, it's international regulations. That doesn't mean, of course, that air carriers can't answer the passenger sooner, because this whole law and essence and this law is to protect the right of passengers. So depending on how fast it will respond, it depends between themselves and their status in future work and thus the seriousness of the airline. After all, there is an obligation from the check to each passenger to know his rights, therefore, clearly written protocol that must stand. So, what's accepted is accepted by European rules, which doesn't mean that it can't be improved, but I think it stands for air carriers themselves now. Next, about the draft accident laws, when you mentioned nine years for assistants, etc. A law on civil servants, for example, is now recommended for the assistant minister or director of special organisations for nine years. When you mentioned 10 years as director of the Directorate, therefore, the director of the Directorate is elected in accordance with the Labour Act because of the specificity of the job. That's why it's been fixed for ten years. In the very draft of the accident research law, it says, in detail, that I would not read the whole article now, but it reads in more detail – nine years for assistants, three years of which they have to be in security affairs, in the area of either water, rail or air traffic. I think nine and ten years in relation to the subject that is the subject of this bill can only bring good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32542	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32543	I think citizens and citizens of Serbia must first know that the text of this law, the law on the investigation of accidents, came to this house on Saturdays or so. So we've only had a day or two, and it can't possibly cause a smile, a day or two to get acquainted with one important topic, with systemic, not changes, but a new law of 50 members, 120 pages of the text of professional matter. I think it is a continuation of parliamentary demeaning by the Serbian government. It's nothing new, but it doesn't mean it's good and we should get used to it. We will vote my colleague Pavicevic and I in favour of this Law on Obligation and Fundamentals of Legal Own Relations, we will, of course, vote in favour of the US Air Traffic Agreement and we will not vote in favour of this law dealing with the investigation of accidents for two reasons. First, because the methodology and procedure that he came to the agenda is absolutely unacceptable. That's what I've been talking about for two days without any serious debate. I agree that this is not a topic for public debate, but it certainly took more time for MPs to get acquainted with this topic. The second reason is because the law is bad and because it's written in a hurry. He needs to be fixed, first of all, because the topic is very important. An additional argument is that we had almost one accident, a helicopter, with seven dead, almost 150 days ago. And today we don't know what happened there. And that accident is due to absolute arrogance, negligence and people from the government, and people whose job was to take care of the safety of that summer. The deal with the United States is, of course, good. There's no reason to undo history, since it's invaluable. History cannot be erased. There are attempts, but they are unsuccessful on a longer term. Flights from Belgrade directly to New York were from August 2003 to July 2004. They were canceled when JAT's director and some geniuses who came to that place canceled the flight because it was invaluable. Imagine a flight from Belgrade to New York could be invaluable. JAT was not flying, JAT was involved in the traffic, but it was possible for Serbian citizens to fly directly from Belgrade without any complications and precedents for New York. Of course it's good if it comes back again and there's no reason to cancel something that's already happened. This agreement of course does not guarantee new flights in itself, but it is a good way to do so and I hope it will be achieved and there is no doubt there. As for the law on investigations, let's say Article 4, that's what colleagues have already said, that the Prime Minister is proposing a chief inspector. I think it's completely pointless. This is an unnecessary burden on the Prime Minister, any Prime Minister. Which Prime Minister has the threshold of superficial knowledge, let alone the expertise of proposing someone for that function? We've given an amendment that mentions a contest according to the highest international standards and Madam Ministers that doesn't write the contest, that doesn't mean it's going to be a competition. It doesn't say much, it doesn't even write raspberries, so that doesn't mean there's gonna be raspberries ice cream in this law. Therefore, it must be fixed. Secondly, we have a member, I don't remember who, twenty-one that the lead investigators have the right not to accept the commission's report. What's that for? On what grounds? So, what's with the commission? So, what are those protocols and sublegal acts for? You're offering us a law where the Chief Inspector can refuse a report without reason why. That's, I'll tell you later, I'll find which member, because I have a few more seconds just to say one more thing, I'll quote one more report, if you allow me another 10 seconds just -- it happens 13th March of this year, at 1:18 p.m., two hours after the accident, the man from the Directorate calls the major who's head of the search and rescue service, calls him for the third time, and says he's able to wake him up, and he calls the major and says he has no idea about the incident. It's a helicopter incident, and this is your report to the director of the Directorate on 14 March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32544	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. It's been 40 seconds. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32545	Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, Parliament's dignity, because it cannot be deceived like this by the public, and that is, of course, the insult of both Parliament and the public who sees this. Number one, there's all kinds of things about a helicopter accident first, which, of course, we're going to say something during the debate. But another thing that's creepy, and where it's a lie, it's about the Belgrade-New York plane line. She didn't even exist, but she was from Tashkent, where the plane went from, we were just a stop by the way, nobody means nothing was lifted when it didn't even exist. Therefore, when someone wants to talk about something, they have no right to deceive the public like this, because this is very ugly and I would ask that you continue to warn such an MP who makes such a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32546	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. I accept, it's my fault, do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? No, I don't. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zivkovic, it is very clear to me that I do not have the opportunity, according to the Rules of Procedure, to... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: How come I don't have one? I'm absolutely right. It was an insult. We're right. What doesn't matter, the minister said in the opening statement... ) Mr. Zivkovic, please, here I am trying to be tolerated, not to use the Rules of Procedure, you are now doing what you are doing, it is clear to you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, because you cannot speak from the place before you are chairing that word. I don't know how to treat you and realize that you have to respect the Rules of Procedure. So you don't have the opportunity in this case to use the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in order for you to replicate Mr. Djukanovic, you have to do it at some other point. Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32547	Thank you. Let's clear up the issue of flights to the United States first. When I talk about 2003 or 2004, when it stopped, we are talking first of all about a commercial contract that existed between the two companies, JAT Airways and Uzbekistan Airways. We are not talking about an agreement between the two countries, which is the United States and in this particular case today, Serbia and that is a huge difference. So I'm also talking about 2003 when there was no such agreement, and there was no agreement because in 2001 Serbia lost category 1 and couldn't fly directly to the United States. Also, I'm talking about the so-called. the "Sher's" agreement and you nodded your own head when I talked about it. This means that JAT Airways has agreed with Uzbekistan Airways to hire 95 seats of 204 seats and thus use the company practically to fly to New York. So, completely, you have to admit, different two things. Here we are talking about an agreement between the two states that was resigned after so many years, and I hope that it will be accepted in this assembly as well. The second thing you said about first of all the draft accident research law, to say that the public would know, from November 25th last year until seven days ago, the law was declared and was held in public debate. There is hardly a city in Serbia where no public debate has been held regarding the draft law on accident research. Not only that, it was talked to all organisations, NGOs, etc. and everything that could be incorporated into this law, and that it would be as high-quality as possible, we made it. Otherwise, that law, you said, 120 and some pages, but the law itself has 29 pages that came before MPs. And if disdaining parliament is that by this law we hope to reduce the number of accidents, to reduce the number of deaths, incidents, or especially accidents and accidents, then it's probably what you say. Also, you said the law was made in a hurry. The law wasn't made in a hurry. It has been done for over a year, which is of course confirmed by these public debates that I mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32548	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr. Zivkovic, despite the best intentions and the desire to give you a replica, I listened carefully to Mrs. Mihajlovic's presentation, she only provided an explanation that she was obliged as a representative of the government to give on the discussion she was having. At no point did she mention you in any negative context that I would have the opportunity to give you a replica. Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32549	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the proposed laws are concerned, of course I will support them. The deal with the U.S. is important to me for the reason we combine the diaspora with the queen. I'm especially glad about the ones in Chicago. So, direct flights to the United States will contribute to us maybe even to improve our economic and social status, so before the diaspora, and in this USA or our diaspora there that differs from this European one because it is going to temporary work in Europe, and in Canada and the United States it is going to work and live, I think that this agreement will contribute to the way our diaspora behaves in Europe and that, in the future, they will only work temporarily in North America, and that it will use this air traffic not only for foreign exchange purposes, as it has been the case so far, because we have received between four and five billion dollars from the diaspora in the future between four and five billion dollars annually and a large part of it has been lost to North America, I hope that I am these donations going to our country that future investment will be among these foreign investors will be the chances and that we have achieved this country's capitalism, and that we have now, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, that we's that we have made that we'll be able to make our economic and in the economic and in the economic of our country. I think that air traffic that comes to life in a way that I've already said will contribute greatly to our diaspora people getting a chance and a privilege to invest in this country and in such a way as to contribute to faster development and exiting the economic crisis because unless this country develops its economy, in such a case we cannot withstand broadcast social rights. In such a situation, we cannot even develop our air, water, rail and road traffic in the way we would like it. Simply, the economy cannot carry that kind of infrastructure development because in such situations we will not have passengers and goods of domestic origin to transport, that is to say, not to drive through our country only by the side of the goods, but to import raw materials, and to export the finished product, which is not the case now because usually the rule of philosophy still, which we inherited from 2000 to 2012, is better to introduce the goods than to produce. The result of this long - run philosophy in our country and which is hard to turn in a positive direction is that we grew only public debt and debt to companies operating abroad without developing domestic economies. We have come into a position that by water traffic, which I must say, due to the longevity of our ships and barges, I have become very personal, since I am a farmer, as well as my previous colleague, we export a bunch of raw materials, or 3.5 million tons of corn, we're going to do it in the last year, we export hundreds of thousands of soybeans, we export it to feed other people's cattle, and in contrast we import third-class meat, someone calls it lipotine, and someone calls it edible waste, we import a pile of frozen meat, which has already expired in those countries. This is what we import through various types of traffic, while exporting a bunch of raw materials to feed these cattle. Then by importing such edible waste and such meat, we crush our livestock stock, so what we need to produce and the raw materials that we need to use to develop our own industry, thereby and internal traffic, of course, and external traffic on export. We use our raw materials to hire our cattle farmers to hire other farmers, while our farm conditions for these cattle work with 30 to 40% capacity, and with so much work the slaughterhouse industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32550	Mr. Risticevic, I would only ask you to link this discussion to these laws that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32551	Mr. Becic, how I'm on the subject. I just got back, so this was an introduction. In doing so, we need our internal and external traffic, all kinds of traffic, to use for our own purposes. That's why the possibility of car accidents is far greater when abandoned barges, when abandoned ships are engaged in importing foreign goods of suspicious quality, so this time I was talking about meat, and we're dealing with the transport of their raw materials used to raise other people's economies, and then this other economy invests money not only in investigating car accidents, but also spends money on getting more modern means of transport, whether they're planes, whether they're aircraft, whether they're barges or ships for loading goods. When transporting, the risk is also high to the port. Therefore, the greatest danger to a traffic accident is when ships or barges sail and sail to ports and ports, and the lowest risk is during navigation. So our ports and docks are in pretty shambles. Some have been sold to build shopping malls most likely, with less service to infrastructure on ports and ports. I will give an example, these are Sremski Karlovci, where there is an oil port, where there is a port for the unloading of mineral fertilisers and for the export of wheat and corn, which cannot function because from 2000 to 2012, it is not regulated in the right way, the port of ships, the port of barges, which should be dealt with by the transport of goods, i.e. the import of raw materials and the export of finished products. In doing so, both ports do not have the appropriate permits and I think that the ministry in the coming period, regardless of the passage of the fast track nearby, must find a way to regulate it because the risk of such ports and unregulated ports is very high on water traffic. In doing so, I'm going to say that recently I've been there myself and that, say, the Hungarians wanted to buy our blocks and bricks, but that, say, a few hundred meters near the railroad that leads to these docks is not maintained, which leads from the brick plant in the Sremski Karlovci to such ports. The Hungarians gave up such a trade, but they had great reasons to use that port when returning their ships from Constanta, to use that part of the track of the industrial track that nobody edits, to buy our construction material on the way back, thereby contributing to the construction industry's work. Mr. Chairman, with your permission, I've said, well, what's important is that we don't just talk about car accidents. Their percentage depends on how much traffic will take place in our country, how much production there will be in this country, how much transport of passengers to their jobs, and how much transport of goods we produce in this country, how much import of raw materials will be, and how much import of finished goods and exports of finished goods will be. We have found in the inherited abandoned and abandoned land such a situation that everything is the other way around, that the exports of finished products are smaller than imports of raw materials, and that imports of finished goods are larger than imports of raw materials. It's living proof that our economy isn't working, the one we found in 2012. I have no comment on the presentation of my previous colleague. I just have to tell you that as far as military accidents are concerned, in early 2015 in Spain, I think that the Greek aircraft from the NATO Pact, F16, collapsed and that ten people died and 13 were more seriously injured and there was not as much campaign as there was about an air crash that happened in our country. Also, I have to say that from 2006 to 2012, there have been six accidents with the deaths of military aircraft on the territory of this country, but no one in the former regime has found it appropriate to discuss it. To conclude, in addition to these discussions, that Nusic's proverb – that knowledge has limits and ignorance, it is obvious that at the speech of my previous fellow MP, Nusic's proverb is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32552	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32553	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of today's session, Mr. Bečić, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and respected guests from the ministry, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, has already announced in his speech, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that we, MPs of the New Party, will vote in favour of this draft air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. But it is necessary for me, too, dear gentlemen and respectfully Mrs. Mihajlovic, to make a special note to you on this occasion. So you and the Prime Minister also announced this bill and the minority highlighted one information which, in my court, is also problematic, Mrs. Mihajlovic. You have announced this bill as a bill that finally, after not knowing how many years, in a decade, our citizens of our Republic will have the opportunity to fly directly to the United States of America. Then I must add one thing here, for precision, for truth's sake. Mr. Vukic will be the first after Mr. Zivkovic, who will indeed ensure that our citizens travel to the United States on direct flights. That, Mrs. Mihajlovic, means that Mr. Vukic is not the first, but the first after Mr. Zivkovic. Well, then, here's where I'm gonna end up next. It is good that the Prime Minister, at least in some parts of his policy, Mrs. Mihajlovic, follows what is Mr. Zoran Zivkovic's policy. But when we vote here, gentlemen and gentlemen of the SNS should also know that this argument is used here when it comes to voting, when they vote for it, that Mr. Vukic follows this occasion an outstanding example of Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, who, by his actions, contributed to a direct flight between Belgrade in 2003, respected gentlemen and New York. This must be known here and, of course, it is a pity that both Mr. Vukic and Mrs. Mihajlovic and other ministers in many more areas, in many cases, do not follow the example of the MP and formerly the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic. That's one thing, Mrs. Mihajlovic. One other thing, I have to tell you one more thing, we have here on the agenda a brand-new draft law on air, rail and water accidents research. I have to tell you, Mr. Zivkovic is right when he tells you that it is not appropriate for the whole new bill, so it is not about the amendments, the additions, the revision of what already exists, Mrs. Mihajlović, but rather about the new text, and it is not appropriate for the new text to come to the Assembly on July 18th, to surprise the minors here, I am sure, and a large number of SNS MPs, here are Mr. Djukanovic and Mr. Giric, and the other SNS Members of Parliament, I think, and that just three days after that, Mrs. Mihajlović, we already have a principle debate on a completely new bill. I think it's okay that you, on behalf of the Government, when you come to the Assembly in such circumstances, say in the first sentence -- it wasn't appropriate, but there may be some reason, which may be a state reason, which is why we need to discuss it today. It was necessary to say that, and no, Mrs. Mihajlovic, I think that you are having an argument with Mr. Zivkovic about something that he is right about and that, I think, is obvious. Third thing, Mrs. Mihajlovic, in February I gave you a book here, I don't know if you remember. Mrs. Mihajlović, the title of this book is "The Wilder Society, how we got here". Please, Mrs. Mihajlović, tell me if you have been able to read that book in the last five months and what do you think about the contents of the book? Of course, this question was raised by that part of our debate that was excluded from the title of the first bill, which is road traffic. Because we have an actual topic, Mrs. Mihajlovic, where an early Christian basilica is buried on one part of the road, where the Serbian Archaeological Society is protesting against it, Mrs. Mihajlovic, where you are deafening about something that is huge cultural value in our Republic. I'm asking you to answer my question and whether it's necessary to do it, if there's time to change the approach and around it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32554	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I see you haven't returned in shape yet, since Mr. Markovic is angry with you, you only mentioned Mr. Giric and Mr. Djukanovic, and you didn't mention him, so I would ask you next time to correct it. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32555	Dear and honourable MP, when we speak of the basilica, the work is done, it is preserved. So there's a big difference between being canned and buried. So, it's not buried, it's canned, and this job is done after three years of trying to continue to build the highway and by all the standards necessary, according to all the relevant institutions, as institutions operate, the basilica is preserved and the work on the construction of the highway continues. When you mention the agreement with the United States, you are right in one thing, which is that Vucic is the first, but not after Zivkovic, but after Tito who managed to negotiate, negotiates an air traffic agreement between Serbia and the United States after 1973 and 1977, when the agreement was signed and in 2003 and 2004, to repeat, since it is obvious that there is no difference between the two companies and what is the agreement between the two states. There is a big difference and there is no comparison between the commercial contract that exists, i.e. that existed between JAT Airways and Uzbekistan Airways in 2003, when we only rented certain 95 seats to fly to the United States. This agreement is one important, primarily political, as well as an economic and economic agreement between the two countries. So, Wolfie after Tito, not after the MP you mentioned. Next, you mentioned the book you gave me. Thank you, I have read and agreed with you, and that is exactly why this government has been working hard for a year so as not to have wild society and everything left for us in 2000 until 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32556	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32557	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becicu, respected and respected Mrs. Mihajlović and respected and distinguished guests and guests from the ministry, I now want to say three things in response to Minister Mihajlovic. First, a report by the Serbian Archaeological Society, which is the voice of the profession, Mrs. Mihajlovic, says that the early Christian basilica, which testifies to the beginnings of Christian civilization in the Balkans, is buried. I ask you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, to once again focus on this issue. Because it seems to me, Mrs. Mihajlović, I come to another thing, that you did not read the book I gave you carefully. Since I have read this book, I say to you, that if you had read this book, Mrs Mihajlović, you could not have treated today in our debate and in your action in politics this enormous value and cultural well-being, which is on that route which otherwise connected the eastern and western parts of the Roman Empire, Mrs Mihajlović. Third thing, you say – Wolf first after Tito. I tell you, Mrs. Mihajlović, when you say – there will be direct flights to the citizens of our Republic, that means – Vukic first after Zivkovic, because in 2003, Mrs. Mihajlović, the same message was – direct flights. Just because there was a commercial contract doesn't mean the flight wasn't direct, Mrs. Mihajlovic. I'm just asking you to make a precise statement. Plus, Mrs. Mihajlovic, this agreement does not create a condition for direct flights to start immediately, but we will have to re-access to some commercial contract, again to some commercial arrangement, on which direct flights between Serbia and the United States will be made. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32558	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Zoran Zivkovic, mentioning the name and last name, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32559	Two levels of replica. First of all, I hope that by playing the case I was mentioned in the context – Tito, Vukic and I, because it is a personal insult to me. I hope that wasn't the intention. The second part, and Mr Pavicevic said, of course we will vote in favour of this agreement and of course we appreciate its importance, but such an agreement does not require poor propaganda, a bad pi-ar based on the false and which you are now repeating. Was this the agreement in 2003? It's not. Was that when you flew to New York from Belgrade? Yes, it is. This means that this agreement is not a necessary condition to fly from here to New York. It was flying to JFK, and it could still fly, in a commercial arrangement, of course. Flights between the two countries have nothing to do with politics, it's purely commercial. And now both US carriers and Serbian carriers will have to make some commercial contracts and that's good. I hope we get there as soon as we can. Few people have money, of course, to fly, but one who needs a job either like this, or for people who live there to visit their friends and come here, it's all right, but there's no need for that unfortunate—the historical first time, so for the first time this, so for the first time that. The mass of things happen, of course, even in these days, that look like something good and promise that something will be good, but that doesn't mean that history started three years ago, as it didn't even start on October 5th, as it didn't even start at the eighth session, as it didn't even start in the Kosovo color. We've got a lot before.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32560	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32561	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 104(1). Rules of Procedure - if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and last name, or function, or wrong, etc. You, Mr. Chairman, gave Mr. Zivkovic your word for the reason you mentioned his name. The Deputy Prime Minister did not specify his name and name, but said only - MP Zivkovic. This is what I'm saying about what the chairman said the other day, and it was the president of the Maya Gojkovic National Assembly that said that I had special treatment, that I was allowed to do everything. In this regard, about giving a replica, Mr. Chairman, it is known that in the last six months until the end of June of this year, Marijan Risticevic had a total of three replicas, that my fellow farmer was 23, that he was 30, that a colleague of my farmer, Col. Pavicevic, was 43. So the three of them had a total of 96 replicas, compared to my three replicas. I do not want to compare myself with the presidents of the parliamentary groups, because they must represent the entire parliamentary group and the party in their capacity. I'm not asking to vote on this, but to know clearly who has this special treatment in this assembly. I'm not against the opposition having a little more rights than we do, but I don't want to impose a qualification that I have certain special privileges and treatment than others, when that's simply not true. I'm not asking you to vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32562	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32563	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, when someone's fighting to eventually get to the censorship, then they can unresponsibly talk what they want and act like an open window. I hope you know what an open window does. But that's when someone doesn't want to distinguish what it means when you have an international agreement with one of the world's greatest forces, and you have a commercial contract with a state that has its own company that flew to New York. That's a huge difference. What to do, I guess somebody's gonna learn that. Anyway, this is good for a simple reason because the U.S. doesn't sign this kind of agreement with everyone. First you must gain some trust in that country and it is good that this trust between us and the world's current greatest power is in the upward path. I hope that will continue, and this is exactly what this agreement with the United States on direct flights from Belgrade, that is, from the Republic of Serbia to New York. As far as the other laws are concerned, it is good to extend the jurisdiction of this Centre, which is formed to investigate traffic accidents, but it is good that, apart from the air, it goes to both rail and ship traffic. With the fact that I have to admit, by reading the law myself, I have some doubts, I hope, of course, that, in the debate, they will sort of clear up, because it seems to me, and that's what I generally don't like, when the laws are written, that something is left behind, that it is solved by sublegal acts. Because that, in practice, has been turned into never getting rid of it and then leaving a hole in the law, and then it's often being abused. Otherwise, it was a feature of the previous government, which loved it best to leave an area unsaid, so it says, it will settle something by sublaw. It's deliberately left behind because there are all kinds of malversions in that interspace. I believe, of course, that's certainly not the government's wish. It seems to me that the very provisions on this Centre are general, and they can be interpreted in various ways. It takes a little precision for a lot of reasons, because indeed, someone here has raised a dilemma about overlapping jurisdiction. It's beautifully written here, and you've made it perfectly clear that they're not involved in criminal investigations or in criminal matters or anything. When it's said, they're dealing with investigations related to the cause of a car accident, whether it's sailing, whether airplanes, you know, might be interested in some other service, and the question is, is it really good to overlap in certain situations right now? It's a good thing here, in terms of, say, some military-related accidents, that some mixed commissions are being created, but again, the question is whether it's precisely from a national security aspect of the good that, for example, the VBA gives someone else there to do a job that might perhaps represent a state secret. Maybe there was an accident, we were transporting something as part of military transport, for example by rail, which may be a state secret, and it doesn't have to be known. There's been an accident and then we have this kind of overlapping of the jurisdiction of some mixed commissions, it can create a problem, maybe we should think about it. Generally, I certainly support this because it's good to have something like this arranged. I'd just like to try to figure out what kind of work is going to be, and what I'm particularly interested in about that center, it's a selection of personnel. It says here that someone has to have nine years of experience in a particular area, whether it's air traffic, whether it's air traffic, whether it's shipping, whether it's rail, but now it's asking the question of what nine years of work, what in the area of traffic. However, someone is involved in investigations, and he must have some basic knowledge related to the criminal aspect itself, so I am genuinely interested in how the selection of these personnel is done. I think it's only important for the citizens to hear it. As for those other things, I must commend myself on many things of these laws. First, because we are harmonising and moving towards certain flows that are simply civilized, we end up agreeing with what the EU requires of us. I believe the whole government is working towards it in a very good way, but I have to point out here, because someone's always mentioned it and I just want to say something about this one don't give God a helicopter accident that someone's been using like this. Indeed, it abuses in an ugly way to clear the very government of the Republic of Serbia, perhaps even the defence minister himself. You know, you have as many accidents as you want, God forbid, in the world, in France, in the United States, wherever you want. You know, that's where it happens, and you let the competent state authorities do their job. Sometimes in the face of national security, for example in the United States, you can't even ask that question so publicly what happened here. Maybe someone has a military secret, maybe something needs to be put aside for certain reasons. Here we have an incredible harangus, literally a hack, and yet on the other hand, if God had not given up something ugly to that child that had passed away, or that had also died, which was sick in Novi Pazar, then there would have been another kind of campaign to the government, and you didn't send a helicopter to save that child. That kind of hypocrisy that rules here is something that's very ugly. I hope that, with the help of a law like this, that something like that will eventually be regulated, that we will know exactly who is in certain situations. I would ask those who want to earn certain political points in such a way that they don't, because it's so bestial, so hypocritical. I hope so, and I believe, because I see many of you reportedly are terribly interested in the results of this investigation, we are waiting for the competent state authorities, not to interfere with the work of someone who is otherwise involved, which is the prosecution, these are some bodies that are independent of us. Don't put pressure on independent organs because you can't do that. Respect some basic democratic postulates and respect that division of hair, you must act accordingly, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32564	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Professor Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32565	Thank you. I do not know if I should make vice presidents the most inefficient, one of the most inefficient governments in the world. For me it was never a dispute, but now you've also got an international verification of your incompetence. When it comes to the three laws on the agenda today, it is certainly the least controversial proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. On behalf of the Turnover Movement, I will vote in favour of the law. What is controversial is the draft law on the investigation of air, rail and water accidents, as the legislator had the opportunity to remove problems that existed in practice, in legal practice and in the practice of investigating accidents in air, rail and water transport, but did not. What's so controversial about that? First of all, some cases will remain out of reach. Out of reach of research, cases will remain similar to the fall of a helicopter, in which seven people died, according to the serious responsibility of a person outside the military service, therefore, civilians. On the other hand, this law does not solve the issue of the expertise of people who will lead the disaster research centre. So there are no criteria and conditions for selecting these people. Penalty policy is not a policy of deterrence from committing a crime, it's a policy that's a mild criminal policy. That's what the punishments prescribed for individual violations say. On the other hand, one of his colleagues was already talking about disagreements or legal non-synchronisation between air traffic regulations and, for example, rail traffic, with internal navigation. The fact is, according to all these parts of the law, they were written by different individuals. I made a proposal for an amendment to remove it. What this law should have given, that it removed the possibility of unprofessionally acting on accident research, is the fact that we will not be able to investigate a case after this law, in which perhaps in command, military officials were involved, without certain powers. So we won't be able to get an answer after this law has been passed, why he gave a warrant, for which reason, someone outside the military structure, for the take-off of a helicopter that lost seven people's lives. Was it just for some government marketing, was someone supposed to take another picture for another or this time the third journal? So we don't have mechanisms. I have put forward a proposal for an amendment on behalf of the "Reversal Movement", which will provide for this centre to investigate cases if a civil person was involved in an airship accident, in a railway or in a boat crash, although there has been an accident of a military aircraft or a vessel. If you accept these amendments and we get a guarantee that maybe this case of helicopters will be investigated, given this law, we will consider the issue of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32566	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32567	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs are very important today's agenda points – the proposal for a law on air, rail and water accidents, the draft law amending the Law on Bondation and Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States. I followed the previous speaker closely, and I must admit that only now did I realize the essential meaning of the word “turn”. Mr. Chairman, I have before me a copy of the Open Parliament website since 20 October 2011, where a respected previous speaker, an independent MP who is represented as an MP of a group of citizens called "The Turnover", where he strongly supports the bill on amendments to the Law on Obligation and Fundamental Legal Relations in Air Traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32568	Please, Mr. Markovic, that's not the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32569	How come it's not, it's the law we're talking about? This is one of the three laws we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32570	It is, but it is not the subject of commenting on other MPs, their presentation and their intention to vote or not vote on a topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32571	You're absolutely right, Mr. Chairman, but I have to say that I understand what a twist is, but I can't understand that someone only a few years ago is strong for, with a reason that we join European integration, and today it's against it. But, well, let's get back to what's the agenda point. In any case, I support today's bill of law. I will primarily base myself on the draft law on air, rail and water traffic accident research. The reason for the support is also the fact that, as we have said, this area has not been fully decorated so far, i.e., it has been partially arranged, through different laws, on different types of traffic, as we have heard from the presentation of authorised representatives of SNS, Mrs Rakic, so – Air Traffic Act, the Law on port navigation on internal waters, the Law on maritime navigation, etc. It has been pointed out on several occasions in previous discussions that the main reasons for the adoption of law on air, rail and water accidents are in fact further compliance with standards and recommended practice of the international civil aviation organisation, as well as international maritime organisations and the legal assets of the European Union, which is now respected by the previous speaker, once again to point out. The rest of us agree that harmonisation of national legislation with European Union rules is one of the priorities of the EU accession process. This law improves the level and degree of security in Serbia's transport system, but improves the efficiency of accident research, as well as the investigation process itself, in line with EU legislation and international conventions. The proposed solutions provide reliable and independent investigation in the event of accidents and accidents in air traffic, therefore serious accidents, other accidents and accidents in railways, as well as very serious maritime accidents, serious maritime accidents, maritime accidents and accidents and serious water accidents. This law also provides that the Centre for the Research of Air, Railway and Water Traffic, organisational and functional, should be fully independent of all competent authorities and organisations, as well as of all natural and legal persons, as well as of all other stakeholders whose interests could come into conflict with the interest of the investigation. The centre will also be independent of state institutions, for example the ministries of the national security body, etc. When it comes to the third law, i.e. the proposal for an air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United States, it should be pointed out that, among other things, it is a great privilege, i.e. a great recognition for both our country and our national company, a great recognition and in a technical sense, which makes us sufficiently qualified to fly directly to America, which, I am confident, will be our numerous diaspora, as one of the previous speakers and mentioned, with great satisfaction and to accept our company, and not just for economic reasons, but also for patriotic reasons. By the very fact that Belgrade will fly directly to America, we are among the regional centres, which is also a major step and a major shift for our airport. For all these reasons, I'd like to call, to support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32572	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Before I give you my word, Mr. Veselinovic, I warned the previous speaker. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, but if you insist, you have a word. (Janko Veselinović, from the place: No, it doesn't matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32573	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 98. Rules of Procedure. The member is said to be – the president of the National Assembly gives a word to the MPs in accordance with the order provided by their parliamentary group and until the total time of the debate set out for the parliamentary group. If the debate has been attended by MPs from several parliamentary groups, the President of the National Assembly shall give them the word alternately. The previous speaker reported it today, that is, among the undetermined MPs. When Mr. Milan Petric gave up the discussion, I came to his place, seventh place. Mr. Aleksandar Markovic, meanwhile, has become defined since the undefined one and is on the list behind me. Does Mr. Markovic have special treatment as well as other MPs? I ask you to give me an immediate change in the application for the word of the MPs of the SNS, according to the fact that someone here lied or made some kind of forgeries. So, Mr. Markovic, after my application, or check-out of Petric, and I came to his place, changed his place on the schedule of the undetermined, became determined for and came behind me, only to comment on everything that the SNS has to do. So, please send me an immediate change of application for a SNS discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32574	Mr. Veselinović, I now understand that you are so important, now some conspiracy theories because of you. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. I don't think so, Mr. Veselinovic. We've got word applications, we've got a series of MPs. It says here that Mr. Alexander Markovic is a yes. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Let's take a look, I have an original. Mr. Veselinović, we'll check it out in the service. (Janko Vesenovic, off the microphone: Aleksandar Markovic was the last. I don't know what you have. (Janko Veselinović, off the microphone: This is the previous one, this is the new one. Alexander Markovic, seventh. Based on what? ) Mr. Vesenovicu, if some MPs give up, we have here four MPs who have given up during the debate. (Janko Veselinović, off the microphone: He was undefined. ) Mr. Markovic was at the moment, according to the last version, he is for this law, perhaps by mistake went such a thing, perhaps the MP group corrected it. You can't claim that you're so important right now that there's some conspiracy theory right now and because of you, someone's changing or putting it on to talk after you. If you think you're so important, that your Movement is so important, it's up to you. (Janko Vesenović, off the microphone: I am very important, please deliver me. All right, Mr. Veselinovic, it's not worth it. You still think you're important. Now, in order, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Not according to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 108 has been injured talking about order at the National Assembly session. I wonder how some SNS MP would go if by any chance the SNS were in opposition, and to behave the way Mr Janko Veseinovic is now acting? (National MP Janko Veselinovic approaches the table to the president of the National Assembly and brings a list of applications for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32576	No, you don't. Who knows what you have. We all have the same thing. Don't, don't. I'm sorry, but I'm really trying to help the MP. No, you're mistaken. We all have the same ones, and here I was watching the transmission now, and I brought my list. Don't, sometimes you take and some work versions, as an MP, there's no obligation at all to share it in the O.R. Who's interested in that sitting and tracking work, who isn't, this was just a means to make it easier, but you're wrong, it's impossible for us to have 50 of us like this, and two or three of us have something else. I'll tell you now. Some times they're made out of registered ones, someone logs in in the morning to the lists. I don't know where you got it, but it's not even crucial. Serbia will not faint now because you have some preliminary list that was made from eight to nine in the morning, and this list is after the opening of the discussion, as it should be. So don't even run to get every piece of paper right now. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: they gave us this, they shared it with us. All right, but talk to the officers. I neither share the lists nor type them, nor am I in charge of making order, but we all have who should have the presidency here that Aleksandar Markovic is behind Janko Veseinovic. Don't, Janko, focus on your work. No one hates you in this country, nor do I hate you, nor do those who make lists, officers. Had Aleksandar Markovic not responded, Martinovic or anyone else would have been behind. Don't, really, don't humiliate yourself or give too much to the point. It's not an evil intention really. He could've been a bit sharper in the back, and he wouldn't have done you any good again. We'll give you zero to start now. Here you go, Martinovic, but from zero, don't count this time, and you can again make it easier for us. Pull it out and do it again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32577	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't know what's going to happen in this room...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32578	Just repeat the article, because Vesenovic was distracting us about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32579	Member of the 108th Madam President. I really don't know what's going to happen so this Rules of Procedure starts to apply to the MPs of the former regime. I wonder what would happen to some SNS MP if the SNS were in opposition and so simply walked to the chair's table and pushed the chairman under the nose of some kind of paper, turned his back on an MP who should speak, and that doesn't happen the first time. So it is the right of the SNS and the SNS parliamentary groups to determine who will speak, whether it will be defined for or against, whether it will be undefined and whether there will be some changes regarding its determination. It is the sovereign right of the SNS parliamentary group. Perhaps Mr. Janko Veselinovic is afraid of some SNS MPs who should speak after him, so he would now set up who in his opinion would be ideal to be killed as little as possible compared to what Mr. Janko Vesenovic said. Mr. Marijan Risticevic was taken away the other day because he tried to talk about the topic the chairman considered to be out of line with the agenda. I've been given a warning as deputy president of the parliamentary group and I have nothing against it. Here today, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic was talking about a helicopter crash and trying to abuse a sad and unfortunate fact that people lost their lives because they wanted to save a child's life...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32580	Time, MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32581	... And nothing happened to him at all. So, what would that mean if I came here now, got the paper and came to you and told you what it says on one thing, what it says on the other paper. It is our right to determine who will speak and whether it will be for or against.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32582	MP, please, two minutes and 15 seconds. Thank you. You have called on article 108 that the president or chairman, whoever, is taking care of the National Assembly session, we have tried to prove to MP Veseinovic that there is no conspiracy against him, because it is indeed such order and delivery, with the fact that I must really say that within the group there is a timetable. So we can't add more people who aren't on the list, but those who are registered can change between themselves, but it's not done today, and I'm not going to justify myself anymore, we're going to work on it, really the subject is completely deplaced. Let's roll. Here you go, MP Rističević. What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32583	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Madam Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107(1). Although I am an MP with special privileges and special treatment, I think that the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured by Mr Janko Veseinovic, a representative of the NGO of the Turnover Movement, conducted here a real little investigation into the order of speakers, and I think that he violated the dignity of the National Assembly, because that right belongs to the possibly chairman, that is, his remarks should have been written and the chairman should have been considered if there were any interference of speakers on the list, since some speakers gave up the discussion and some did not. The right of the MP is to advertise the Rules of Procedure. I do not dispute this right to the NGO's representative Janko Veselinovic, but his right is not necessarily to investigate on the spot, and thus demean the National Assembly and that we are all waiting until Mr. Janko Vesenovic completes his investigation into the movement of one of his alleged impressions that the order of speakers and greater topics for this country has been moved, but since the move of the order, i.e. because someone spoke after Janko Veseinovic. So I think in the future when he advertises this, I'm going to look for an interpreter, because I don't understand anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32584	Let me tell you, MP, the 107th victim has already been in this circle, so there's no voting and you will. It was, let's record everything. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: No. Well, well, MP, when you run the session, you'll have a different record. Our records speak-- the 107th was. Here you go. What member? Article 105. It's not about him, it's about hurting the Rules of Procedure, one after the other.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32585	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 105 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, which says that no one is allowed to approach the speaker until the President of the National Assembly approves it, which just happened before. I think at best you could have decided to take a break, and then apologize to Reverend Janko Veselinovic. I don't think you should have let me put it that way, and the untrue and very malicious evaluations he said for me personally and for the SNS parliamentary group. It was not the first time that order was such that I spoke after Janko Veseinovic. It's just that sometimes it happens, but it's the first time he's reacting like this, because the essence of what I've said has hurt him. The fact that on October 20th, 2011 he was a pain in the ass...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32586	Ambassador, please, breach of the Rules of Procedure. You just reminded me of my behavior, and now I have to remind you. So it's just a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I accept the suggestion to me, or whatever it is you want to say, but right now you can't go beyond what you've explained in article 105. Thank you. By the way, I let Janka Veselinovic near. I wanted to calm the situation down, and it's completely irrelevant to this whole discussion whether you were behind or not, when it's nice to say it is. I'd like to ask you now to move on, because it's talking about whether someone is 104 or 105, in speeches seven or eight. Is that right, MP Veselinovic, that this has become completely irrelevant? The next speaker on the list is Borislav Stefanovic. No, I don't. He quit. No, I have to read. Please don't just suggest to me, because someone will come forward and say what I've deleted. So he's wiped out. The word has a People's MP, Nejo Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32587	Thank you, President. Given that the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group Stefan Miladanovic stressed that the SPS Group would support a set of laws we are discussing today, I will only join this support and subsequently announce the authorised representative, I will only talk about amendments and additions to the Law on Obligation and Foundations of Property-Legal Relations in Air Traffic. Why? Well, because unlike road traffic, first of all, the passenger on the plane is protected. And my entire discussion should be and will be focused exclusively on the protection of passengers and passengers' rights, especially air passenger rights, of compensation. When it comes to the fact that the average plane ticket is much bigger than the bus ticket, that it is a far more comfortable journey, a much shorter journey, it is clear that these rules relating to air traffic and air traffic protection must be far clearer and more precise than any other rules and, in this direction, the Minister, you have our maximum and strong support. However, what remains as a matter of both the dilemma and us in the SPS parliamentary group, and certainly for the majority and citizens and MPs, is a dilemma that was in some way opened by MP Bradic and in a certain sense received a certain answer from your side. But what we think should have been complemented and deepened precisely in terms of better analysis is the fact that even in the EU, according to statistics that provide quite reliable data, only 2% of the damage claims, so only 2% of air traffic passengers' advertising is adopted. So, out of the total number of commercials, only 2% is adopted. At as much as 25% of air carriers in the EU, therefore, it is not just about our air transport, which is undoubtedly respectable by all parameters, and even 25% of advertising is not answered at all. As a result, this 60-day deadline for a decision on advertising, i.e. the complaint of passengers, is somewhat controversial. Why the disputed? It is not disputed that the Republic of Serbia is a signator of a multilateral agreement on a common European aviation area, it is not disputed and it is not disputed that the standards prescribed by this agreement must be adapted in this respect. This is not disputed, but it is disputed that even our air carrier, passengers, are speaking to wait an inappropriately long time for answers to their ads, that these answers are often inadequate, i.e. inconsistencies with the fact that we have no adequate sanctions in the event of silence from the competent authority. Why don't we have, Your Honor, an adequate sanction? Because over 67% of passengers are not familiar with their rights, 67% of passengers from the total number of passengers using air traffic are not familiar with their rights observed at the level of all EU airlines, therefore, not only in Serbia, but throughout the EU. This lack of education, transparency, familiarisation of passengers with rights in the field of air traffic protection and the possibility of meeting their damages requirements is a long-term problem. In this direction, it should be observed whether it is possible that even the amendment committee will improve the quality of this law by saying what the European Parliament has taken as a position. We also have among our MPs of the European Parliament, MEPs, who have taken the view that in the event that the damage claim is seen as a silence of the competent authority, in this situation, if the competent authority does not respond, that it is automatically considered to have been accepted. The European parliamentarians also have significant thinking in this direction to amend the legal rules governing this matter. Why? In view of the fact that on the one hand, all competent authorities acting under the compensation requirements of the air carrier, or I apologize, will be disciplined by the competent authorities of the air carrier in accordance with the compensation requirements of the passenger. On the other hand, we will have a very fast, transparent procedure in which passengers will be clearly educated. If the position of European parliamentarians is accepted, it could be intervened in the proposal for this law, as it is not a rare case that, according to Er Serbia as our domestic car carrier, the requirements of this content are also addressed. It is not a rare case of infringement of the rights of passengers, and I will only point to some of the rights of passengers who are legally or systematically guaranteed because they are very clearly normable. Where can a passenger complain, what circumstances? Circumstance of boarding, cancellation of flights, delays in flights, low-class accommodations, etc. If on the one hand we don't take all the steps to educate passengers to always, but always because of the violation of the right they address the competent institution or the institution, it's the Air Force Directorate, and on the other hand we execute one species, I have to say so on the escalator of the bodies that need to act, then we will succeed in the practical application of this law. Otherwise, we remain in the field of insufficient or inadequate protection of passengers in air traffic. In this direction, I would like, first of all, to accept the well-intentioned suggestion of the SPS parliamentary group the possibility of amending or supplementing the bill in this part of the law and, indeed, in the event of non-responsibility, the failure of a passenger is considered to be a damage to both advertising and damages, in any case accepted. Of course, all that is contained in this law, which is in principle not the essential law we are discussing today, is one step that the government has been doing for a long time in the direction of harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU legislation. That you have support in the direction of detailing certain provisions of the bill's proposal, that it is a termologically far better solution, that we now have far clearer, more precise wordings in the text of the law that will not leave doubt and error. The only question remains this open question that we have talked about, where I believe we should not slave, conditionally, with what is stated in the agreement, because in any case, a 60-day period will be respected, but the question is asked whether that deadline, under one, should be shortened, if we do not shorten what I believe is justified that it does not have to be shortened, then it is justified to seek the responsibility of one who does not respond to the request, and that responsibility in the law is indeed not sufficiently processed. In any case, you have maximum support for the adoption of this law by the SPS parliamentary group and we hope that, with respect to our amendments, you will contribute as we wish to improve this law by quality, and in any case whether the amendments will be authentically accepted or we will not vote in the voting day for the proposal of this law. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32588	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32589	Thank you to your parliamentary group for voting for the drafts of these laws. As for the dilemmas you have, and I hope that most citizens will not have these dilemmas, because on every air carrier's counter, there must be information about how they can protect their rights. The directorate's inspectors are obliged to take care of law enforcement. If, let's say, I'm going to go from there, there's not all the information the directors of the Directorate have to do under the law that such an air carrier, or an airline of penalties, are standing on the air carrier's counter. Another 60 days of course stands because it is in line with all the directives and norms, but as I have also previously commented, one of the previous MPs, and that is that the matter is the airline itself and the carrier will, and I think that everyone will probably want to respond as soon as possible, and if, of course, the passenger is not satisfied or if he does not get the answer, the next point is the Directorate who will have to give his opinion on it. In 2014, for example, there were 77 advertisements from the Directorate, of which 31 advertising, which were processed, concerns delays in flights, almost half of the total number, then 17 commercials concerning flight cancellations, eight advertising in the category of cancellation of boarding and seven advertising in the category of luggage, where the Directorate gave certain solutions to air carriers. We have worked really hard, and yet in accordance with all our obligations and the desire to protect the rights of passengers because it is in the first place, to provide passengers, i.e. passengers, baggage and cargo through this law to all details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32590	The word is Ivana Stojiljković, and be prepared Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32591	I thank the president. The Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ahead of us are very important three traffic laws, primarily air traffic that should today, in fact on the day we vote them, when we accept them, to round the legal basis and comply with EU rules, after which it can definitely be said that this type of traffic is firmly entering the EU. As we have already heard from the Ministerial Office, the first stage of adaptation is already near the end, which is already a condition for negotiations and the opening of Chapter 14. So, these days, the Air Traffic Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the United States, signed on 29 May of this year, will be confirmed and I am very glad that very little has passed since the very signing of the agreement until its adoption, although many have suspected it will indeed be so. This means that for some time we will have a direct flight from Serbia to America and, of course, in the opposite direction. In addition, this agreement will speed up the mutual bilateral co-operation of our countries, namely our countries and America, and show that Serbia and all our companies are a reliable partner and that they are good partners in the world. It should also be noted that Serbia is going through very serious controls in order to reach this agreement and that today it will be amongst, or during which day it will be among the rare countries that will have a direct flight, and more specifically it will be the only one in the region. This will certainly attract potential passengers from our neighbouring countries, which will also economically strengthen our Air Serbia airline. The second law that is before us, i.e. amending and supplementing the law, is for the provision and basic property-legal relations in air traffic and, as we have heard, 11 members have been amended, also with the aim of agreeing with EU laws in order to better determine terminology, means that it would be more clearly defined and what is most important, and we heard through the discussion, in order to improve the conditions and protection of passenger rights in order to continue to be a passenger in the first place. And today we have a debate about new law, the Law on Air, Railway and Water Traffic Accidents. So this was the field of research defined through several different laws. It is now being brought, or felt the need to bring about one unique arrangement of this matter for a greater degree of protection of life, health, safety, as well as environmental protection. So, after the accident, the investigation is moving in different directions. We have judicial investigations, we have security investigations, and what's the difference between them is what these investigations are all about. So, the prosecution's goal is to point out who's guilty and responsible for the accident. However, the subject of this law is to find the causes of the accident. So this investigation answers three questions, what happened, why it happened, and of course it makes recommendations on what can be done never to happen again. Also, the reason for the adoption and compliance with EU rules, as I said earlier, meets international obligations, prepares for the negotiating group for the opening of Chapter 14 and is expected very soon because the first phase of the adjustment of the rules has been completed. Therefore, the Centre will determine the causes of accidents and serious accidents, so it will make recommendations to improve security, guide the database and give it insight and provide expert assistance to relevant, i.e. judicial authorities. If we take into account what we heard at the beginning of this principle debate, that in some previous period there were over 2,000 accidents in these three types of traffic, that some 150 people were killed, that the material damage was over 270m euros, therefore, the application of this law would definitely result in a reduction in the number of accidents, a reduction in the number of victims, material damage and a prevention of environmental pollution, which is very significant for our country. Because of all this, the Serbian Progressive Party will firmly support these bill proposals and great happiness in future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32592	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32593	Dear Presidents, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, of course, we will agree, if we exclude the attempt to politicise all the draft laws that come into this House, that these three draft laws and one agreement are essential to our country, because they primarily cover areas that have not been regulated legally. I've carefully studied all three draft laws. I will refer only to this law which, in my view, merits attention, which is the proposal for a law on air, rail and water accidents research. I'll try to make a few remarks that may be the subject of considering any amendments. Thus, in the proposed text, in the last position of Article 5, it is said – the competent judicial authorities conducting the investigation may provide the centre with the files and documents, i.e. their copies necessary for the conduct of the procedure, the survey in air, rail and water transport, if this does not interfere with the investigation process. Madam Minister, we can in practice come up with a situation where investigative authorities will justify the discrepancy of data and knowledge to this research centre, allegedly due to the investigation we are unable to provide you with the requested data. I would rephrase this view differently and oblige the investigating authorities, this team before the members of the accident research centre are under oath, i.e. they are under the obligation of one member, as you regulated in the proposed law, to keep the confidentiality of the information they acquired during the investigation. I'm afraid that we will have in public controversy, if this legal solution remains, that there will always be a higher one, not getting into the law of the judicial authorities, that the competent prosecutors will justify that in the interest of the investigation we are unable to provide the requested data to the centre, and that the great pressure on the centre will be public why it has not been revealed, or fully established, the facts about an accident. The second remark, which may also be amended, relates to Article 10. Article 10 of the proposed text states – The Centre must notify the Ministry within seven days of the date of the decision to initiate the investigation. I think, Madam Minister, it's too many seven days for you as a resolute minister to know that your center has launched an investigation into some kind of traffic, water or air force. I think that deadline should be - within 24 hours. What if within seven days they ask you what is the matter with the investigation, who has launched it, whether it has been launched, and you have given the centre seven days to inform you that he has taken action and action in the course of an accident investigation. I think it has to be shortened to a much shorter term. Next, my commendation, complete commendation, is to Article 15. In attitude 2, you say – no one can limit the content and scope of the research, to influence the content or scope of the report on the investigation of accidents and serious accidents, or to the content and extent of the security recommendations of the centre, which gives you full independence of the centre and that is a very good solution. My final objection to the proposal for this law refers to Article 27. You say in the last paragraph – The Center publishes an investigation report as soon as possible, but no longer than 12 months. I ask you now, Madam Minister, who will endure the public pressure to wait 12 months for the truth about an accident of traffic, water or air? If your argument is, and if you've managed to have some, given the complexity, the size of the business, the testing of individual devices, everything that needs to be done, let's say, when it comes to a crash of aircraft or ships, I think it's three months enough for all these tests, the skills to be done and to the public within three months, because in 12 months, the public in this country will forget what happened a year ago. It will remain undecided whether we were obliged, and we are, that the public knows what happened in a particular accident, who the answers are and what are the recommendations for improving and preventing possible accidents. If you'll allow me, I will use your presence, Madam Minister, I hope the chairman will not prevent me from asking you two questions concerning most of the MPs from the interior. As you know, by regulation or by some other act, it has been decided that MPs pay tolls, or tolls. Such a decision, in my deep opinion and the opinion of the majority of MPs from the interior, puts the unequal position of MPs from the interior of the Republic and MPs from the city of Belgrade, given that these are the first ones to suffer additional material costs by segregating part of the money for tolls, i.e. roadways. Will your ministry also make such a decision agree or at least be MPs in the same position from the interior with lawmakers from Belgrade? Secondly, if the chairman allows me, it also concerns MPs from the interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32594	And now one question, like this, came out of the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32595	I'll be brief. If I can use the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32596	Yeah, but not for everyone. Come over later to the minister and ask her.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32597	It also concerns the Messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32598	I do. I am on the side of the MPs, of course, but don't, and other MPs will then want to ask questions beyond the subject. The minister will answer for sure. I know she'll answer any topic. You may have agreed to ask her questions. If she allows it, fine. But I think we are making a precedent and then there will be a question asked to other ministers and we will not be able to react in the same way as Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Please understand. If you have something about the law, okay, and if not, she'll answer your question, but it's not about the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32599	I'm going to start with questions that aren't about today's agenda. Everyone pays toll, including MPs, and the thing is, of course, the Assembly, or your internal organs, how you're going to refund those costs. It applies, therefore, to both members of the government and to the government. Everyone pays the costs and even when we take the vehicles and when we have the tags and so on, they're paid, so we pay them. So I'm going back to the Assembly, to whether and how, in any way, by internal acts, they're going to refund and what costs they're going to refund. Of course, we can also give written information to the honourable MEP on payment of toll. So in Serbia, all those who did not pay toll, and many organisations were, we abolished that decision last year or early this year. As for the law and your comments on the law, I'd like to say that the part that applies specifically to the report that you mentioned, and for a maximum of 12 months since the report, that's where we mixed one thing, and that's -- the report from this investigator's law doesn't determine who's guilty, so it's not the task of investigating accidents, who's guilty and who's responsible. For that reason, it takes time to make a report. I'm not saying it's going to be 12 months, it can be much less. We determine and make recommendations, or through the center, so it determines why something happened, determines the cause, and therefore makes certain recommendations on what needs to be done in any kind of traffic, so that it no longer occurs. This is a serious difference, because it can happen that this second investigation is being conducted much, much longer, which is why it is not possible to complete this report completely. The seven days you mentioned, the Ministry's notification, I agree that the minister should be informed immediately, as it has been informed, say, the Ministry of the Interior, but the Ministry's own report can come within seven days. But to be informed and informed that something has happened and to initiate an investigation, I agree with you there, and we can regulate it in other ways, or amendments. Research center, you also mentioned certain deadlines. I think we should certainly now, if there is a need, as we will have in sublegal acts, that instead of two years to one year, we will reduce with the amendment, and so on these deadlines we can arrange these things, to be even more efficient and more precise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32600	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32601	I thank you, President. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law on the investigation of accidents in air, rail and water traffic. Therefore, the subject matter of regulating this law is to investigate accidents and serious accidents in air traffic, rail traffic, as well as maritime accidents, as well as the jurisdiction and authority of the authorities to conduct investigations and investigations in the event of these accidents. Why are we passing one of these laws? First of all, for reasons of prevention, for the purpose of preventing accidents and accidents that occur, which are provided in this law through the improvement of safety levels, and above all through the establishment of a traffic accident research centre, which will deal primarily with the investigation of accidents and accidents, both in air and in rail and in water transport. It is significant to say that this centre will be completely independent in its operation from all authorities and traffic organisations, including other state authorities. The centre's goal is to conduct an accident investigation, which is independent of the judicial authorities' investigation. Also, one of the goals of passing this law is to comply with the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and the International Maritime Organisation, as well as with the EU's legal assets. This law is also important in the aftermath of the accident, in terms of the independent and impartial investigation that I mentioned, and above all to identify the causes of the accident and the factors that led to the occurrence of the accident, and above all to learn how to prevent the occurrence of the accident. What should certainly be mentioned is that to prevent accidents in air traffic is one of the most important things to transport passengers in air traffic, which can certainly be done by a successful air carrier. I will now provide you with some information on how our air carrier is now operating, or how he used to operate, and how he's doing business. So in 2008, while the airline was a Yugoslav airport or JAT, the loss was 25m euros, in 2009, 23.5m euros, in 2010. The loss average was between 23m and 33m euros. Since the creation of Er Serbia, as a partnership between Etihad and Serbian citizens who are the majority owners of this company, the first full year of business has ended with a net profit of 2.7m euros. Total income increased by 87% to 262m euros, the number of passengers increased by 68% to 2.3 million, and passenger transport capacity was 3.3 billion, a 74% increase compared to 2013. The capacity to transport passengers has been increased by three percentage points to 67%. The volume of transport was increased by 67% to 2,700 tonnes. A fleet of 10 Erbas planes has been introduced and five existing ATR aircraft have been restored, which certainly shows he is taking care of passenger safety. The new brand "Aviolet" charter carried over 90,000 tourists from Serbia in the summer season of 2014. The number of passenger and freight destinations has increased by 16, so there are now 40 in 30 countries. Another 35 destinations in collaboration with "sher code" partners, of which 11 destinations with a partner are owned by "Etihad Ervez". These are certainly significant indicators showing that this air carrier, Er Serbia, is operating as a good host, thus increasing the safety of passengers using the airline's services. It is also very important to say that for the safety of passengers it is also important how it operates in the airport, how it works in the airport. And we have a variety of examples here, so first of all, I'd like to give an example of how he did business at the airport at the time of the previous regime. For example, we had a situation that there were abuses in the renovation of terminals two and special equipment of VIP salons at the airport, which is why the then Minister of Transport and Telecommunications was arrested. We also had a situation that the equipment of the VIP salon cost as much as 4,400 euros per square, i.e. about five times as much as the equipment of the VIP salon at London's fast airport. Also, what shows that the airport did not do well during the previous regime is also the number of passengers transported. So in 2008, we had two million and 650 thousand passengers, in 2009, two million and 384 thousand passengers, in 2010, two million and 698 thousand passengers, in 2011, three million and 124 thousand passengers, and already in 2013, three million and 543 thousand passengers, and in 2014, four million and 638 thousand passengers. Also, in 2013, the airport paid about 60,000 euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and in 2014, the amount was over five million euros, which certainly shows that the airport is doing well and is certainly affecting the safety of the passengers it serves. So I certainly think this law is good, and I will support it in the voting day. I would also talk about the Law on the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the US Government. The basis for this law is an agreement signed on 29 May 2015, which was just signed on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia by our Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and, on behalf of the US government, Mr Michael Kirby, US Ambassador to the Republic of Serbia. The agreement certainly shows that Serbia, headed by the government of Aleksandra Vukic, has become a modern, decorated and above all a safe state, shows that this government is leading an excellent foreign policy, showing numerous meetings of prime ministers with senior US officials, which is why the agreement is securely signed. Why did I say Serbia is a safe country? Why is it important that I said Serbia is a safe country? Well, first of all, because this agreement shows that the level of security at Belgrade airport is extremely high, given that US air traffic safety standards are extremely high and I certainly welcome that. This agreement will certainly contribute to an even better improvement of relations between the two countries, and it opens wider opportunities and is indeed a solid foundation for future long-term co-operation. For this very reason, I will support this law, and I suggest you do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32602	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32603	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, respected fellow ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about three laws and I will immediately say that DS MPs will support these legislative projects, because we are in favour of increasing security, and we have shown that on the committees on which we have discussed these laws. It is also very important to say the following thing, to come from this third law which was most often spoken of and about the need to highlight historical merits for historical decisions and to declare certain amendments to the law and proposals for legislative proposals, as proposals opening for the first time in history the possibility of communication and direct flights to the United States, so we heard from Madam Vice President a comparison that surprised me a little, which is the comparison, here, in 2003, there were no direct flights, now for the first time the President of the Government of Vukic, compared to Tito of that previous time. I was confused that you didn't compare the president of the state of Nikolic to Tito, and Mr. Vukic could have compared to Milka Planinz, or Mike Spilk, or... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32604	Mr. Kiriq, I'm asking you to get back on the subject. Now please ask for a word and get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32605	I am trying to talk about this third bill of law and agreement with the United States and with a desire to remind us of the importance of respect for continuity in this co-operation, because that is how we respect institutions and strengthen institutions. I remind you, in that previous state, there were five different airports in the United States, 1010 of them, and that JAT was then developing and how this air transport was. I think it's very important for a number of reasons to respect that continuity in every way. Well, in terms of security, as I once again point out, we also support these proposals of the laws that work, above all to raise the level of safety and flight, both in rail and in water transport. I think it's an indisputable interest of all of us. What needs to be pointed out and what we have heard in previous discussions is certainly the need for a permanent prevention of traffic safety in these three areas. We talked about what we got with this kind of integration and definition of security in three areas that were regulated before this law was passed. I agree that it is necessary to integrate it, but I am in favour of all legislative proposals over the past three years that we are talking about how we will measure the effects of the legislative proposals that we are all making here, as MPs. We had many examples that we had no feedback and that we had, obviously, very negative effects and consequences of some of the laws we voted here. I hope we don't have it after this law, because I said clearly we'll vote for these legal proposals. I advocate that kind of responsibility, because we received in the analysis of the bill's proposals, that the damage estimates are at an annual level of about 80m euros. A figure of about 300 million for four years has been mentioned, so about 80 million, on average annually, and that, of course, minimum funds have been designed in relation to this damage in the establishment of a centre and the employment of 12 people who will work at that security centre. It is very important to measure after such a decision is made in the Assembly, what will indeed be the effects of the work of the center, and what effects will be given to us in front of the committee, as well as to this assembly and majority, as well as to the opposition. This is extremely important, but it is important and to ask one of the key questions in which we will get a strong, independent institution defined in the draft law in Articles 4, 5 and 6, which is the establishment of a traffic accident research centre. For us, this proposal is particularly interesting in Article 6 which says that Centrom is managed by a top investigator who has the position of director of a special organisation and the lead investigator is appointed by the Government not five years on the proposal of the Prime Minister. What does this matter? It is primarily important because of the independence of this institution which will hardly be independent if the chief inspectors and directors are elected on a proposal from the Prime Minister. We had this example and in this debate there was often a comparison and a reminder of that accident, unfortunately and a loss of seven lives, the lives of seven people, and I know that this is not a direct topic of this law, but it is very important to talk about how it will affect or can affect these independent bodies that have to be independent. We saw that the Prime Minister's statements in this process were directed and with one statement – I don't give my two ministers, in some way affecting the investigation process. I think it's very important to insist and pray for a response from the Deputy Prime Minister in which we will ensure this kind of choice of people's independence, those 12 people who will properly investigate all the causes, God forbid, the accidents they won't be. That's one of the important questions. What's also important is that I agree with that argument, and the need to do constant prevention of security. Prevention is not only a study of incident situations but prevention and investment in infrastructure, improvement of infrastructure, insistence in the purchase of proper technical means in each mode of traffic. I think we are also aware that some of the other solutions that we bring here directly affect the possibilities of state and public systems operating in such important infrastructure facilities. It is through, say, the adoption and the Public Procurement Act, which largely slows down the possibility of investment and the acquisition of technical means that will provide safer traffic. It's probably more important work, certainly longer and far more difficult than the very examination of possible accidents that can happen. And we know the state of the railway infrastructure itself. We know the average speed on our tracks. We know that in many cities, like the city of Nis, literally transports through the city center and dangerous wastes with a large number of cars that often pass through the city center. I think it's important to insist precisely on these key black points where infrastructure needs to be renewed and to work preventively on that security and what can happen to our citizens. On the Committee we heard from the Secretary of State a really interesting situation and this comparison that we had with the number of people employed in similar institutions like France where 120 people were mentioned in the air and 130 in the rail and examples that show how important it is to insist on these institutions. It's certainly less than proportional to what is the frequency of our traffic in each of these visions. I believe and hope that the right choice of people, those 12 people who will work in this institution, will ensure their professional work. I think it's something we should get as a report, and first of all through the effects that can be seen from their work, it's going to take as long as I see announcements and deadlines for about a year where some cross-section of these effects can be made. Once again, I want to point out something that we talked about at some previous sessions, which is that every security in all of these modes of traffic is something that DS will support. Something that we will follow through reporting and work and function, but with a clear requirement that executive power should strengthen institutions that are unfortunately largely destroyed, with a great loss of confidence in that regard. I think it's important that you give the right opportunity to the people at this center to do their job professionally, not the way we've had it in the case and analyze the cause of the helicopter crash, where seven people have lost their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32606	The first word has been made by Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32607	No matter how many times we repeat today, primarily because of Serbian citizens, I do not want to let the importance be reduced, first initialled, and then signed agreement between the Serbian-US government in air traffic. That is why I will try another way to explain that the agreement is of great importance and what it means is that Serbia will be the only country in the region that will have direct flights from Serbia to the United States and the United States to Serbia and what it means for Serbia itself as a transit state and in general for our Airport and for the development of air traffic. The year you mentioned, in 2004, as I said, it was a commercial contract between JAT and Uzbekistan, their Uzbeki airline, and it was only during the landing. On one plastic case, this means the following, until we were able to make a deal with Etyhad, and that we have Er Serbia, to Abu Dhabi, it was a journey between landings in Beirut, so you're well on board in Belgrade, and then you stop in Beirut and you can't get out of the plane, you're on the runway, the only thing that can happen is to get a number of passengers in Beirut, and then to continue your journey to Dubai, it wasn't even Abu Dhabi, but only Dubai. It's during the landing. Such an approach existed during the landing in 2003, when there was a commercial agreement between the two airlines and no agreement, nor agreement between Serbia and Uzbekistan, nor between Serbia and the United States, and that is a huge difference compared to the agreement the government managed to make with the United States. If this government wasn't stable and it wasn't working the way it works in terms of having certain results in the economy, the economy and that it is a politically stable factor of the entire Balkans of the Western region, believe me, there would be no such agreement, so there would be a huge difference between what you mention and what it is today. However, we initialled the agreement, we signed the agreement, this government did, but it is for the benefit of all citizens and we will have direct flights to the United States by the end of the year, or early next year. You also mention the effects of legal proposals. I must admit that, for example, the law that was passed last year in December, and as regards the Law on Planning and Construction, we present the effects of applying this law for 15 days and we can only boast of the united procedure and say that today, 30% more of the building permits of the issue, than it was before when the procedure was not united, and that we are not saying how much it means in terms of the effect of moving Serbia on the Duing Business List of the World Bank. In addition, the effects can and must be measured through the ministry's report and we are obliged for three months to submit reports to the Serbian Parliament's committees and we are doing so and we are here to answer all questions. When you talk about people working at that accident research center, it doesn't say there will be, or there won't be any public competition. It also says very clearly for the director, or investigators, as well as for the assistants, that it will be, or how many years of experience they need to have on the basis of which law, and according to the Law on civil servants they will be elected. So I didn't notice anyone writing that there was no competition. With you, of course, I agree that when you talk about security, the laws will be made, the sublegal act will also be followed by the effects, but it's equally important to invest, as you said yourself, in infrastructure. I think it's even more important that we form this center that needs to help us reduce, give us recommendations, point to the causes and help us reduce the number of any accidents and accidents. Just a few data that I don't believe you've had the chance to get as information, but we're from 1995 to 2013, when we're talking about rail traffic, the total number of passengers who were killed was 29, the railway workers were 23, third persons 1,315, and that's a lot. One is a lot, let alone 1,367 how much was total. Speaking of injured persons, during the period 1995 to 2013, 245 passengers were injured, 115 railway workers, third persons 1.143. We lost 10,600 hours because we had extraordinary events, let's say in rail traffic, which is why trains stood, from 1997 to 2013, that we're not talking about this statistic now, and I think that through this center, through this law, through the center that will deal with it, through everything that we as Government know in different resolutions, united now in one center can only help us to reduce accidents and accidents to the least possible extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32608	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32609	Mr. Ciric, in the harshest possible way, using untrueness, insulted Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, because he had just stated that Vukic had influenced court decisions. What court decisions, Mr. Kiric? To the formation of two independent military commissions tasked with establishing all the facts under which the military helicopter fell? Do you mean the statements that Alexander Vukic made, but each of the responsible members of the SNS said – after that, independent judicial authorities should determine all the facts and circumstances of who is guilty, will be responsible. Why didn't you use those words when a helicopter fell in Kragujevac on December 30, 2003? The injured child, the injured Santa Claus, the injured pilots, and did you then create an independent military commission, did you say, "Come on, you're doing your job in the judiciary?" No, you're not. Have you looked at how many of the surrounding countries there have been such accidents? The accidents are happening and they will happen and we will all, whoever is in power, we will not let them be brought down to the minimum, but we will censure after that the government, the Prime Minister, the ministers, politicize the case, of course we will all say in a voice, not to be politicised, because if there is no politicised case in Macedonia when 11 hundred pilots died, which is what the crew members and eight passengers and, on January 12, 2008, in Croatia, in Montenegro when Luštrica peninsula, at Herceg Novi killed three members of Montenegro's army, and did someone then in Montenegro, politicize the case, and did someone say, now we will deal with it? On what basis is Goran Ciric, or Gordana Comic or Zoran Babic, more than independent military commissions and experts from the Serbian Army? On what grounds do you think any of us are affecting independent judicial authorities? We didn't set up judges and prosecutors in Vlasotinc, as you did, because they refused all possible criminal charges against members of the DS municipal board, it wasn't our motive. It is a motive for us to make an independent branch of the judiciary, not to influence any verdict, not to comment on a single verdict, let alone order as the DS did at the time when it led our country. Which is why... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32610	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. Col. Comić, on what grounds? (Gordana Comić, from town: To mention the name. So what if he mentioned a direct name? He didn't say anything for a moment that would give rise to a straight line. Mr. Ciric, I am not communicating first with you right now, but with my colleague, Comic. (Gordana Comic, from the place: He mentioned the name of the party, I seek the right to reply because I am authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32611	Thank you. The heat of words is higher, the weaker the arguments are, so usually it is a replica that characterizes the presentation of MP Goran Ciric is exactly that. National MP Goran Ciric said he hopes that the main investigator's institution will be independent and that no Prime Minister will be able to say -- I will not give the ministers. And that's all he said. But when there are no arguments, when fear is great, it is invented and what is worse is allowed itself to be ethically compared incomparably. It's simple to even legitimate anyone from the Democratic Party to accuse anyone of anything. It is unethical to put on the same straight edge of good taste an accident because of the two simple issues the Democratic Party had and will have - based on which and whose information did the defence minister decide to launch the rescue mission "Helicopter"? Who did he inform that it was necessary? And another question that is not in any of the reports made by the military commission, which is not the subject of the investigation and the prosecution, but is the subject of responsibility -- who was changing the flight plan? And that's what we ask, what we ask and what we ask, because it refuses to give an answer. Whenever someone mistake the desire to arm a political opponent with an honest stance of defence and the rule of law, then we have the heat of words, instead of arguments. But in front of all of us, that is, we are all before those who sent us here to be their voice, and therefore we are looking for answers to these two questions, as I can only quote fellow MP Goran Kiric – we hope that no Prime Minister will ever, anywhere, allow himself to say the sentence "I do not give the ministers" because the ministers are not given to him and he cannot say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32612	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32613	Of course, there is no need for this kind of perseverance, and I could have more respect for that kind of passion and political and each other if she had been directed towards her own colleague who had given himself the right to speak in a previous speech about the former Minister of Telecommunications and Infrastructure, who, some, perhaps less than a year ago and has been legally released from all charges, and has been accused here all the time by your colleague whom you could have warned about exactly that by respecting the judicial authorities and institutions. And all the time we've been insisting on that, and I'm going to respect that consistent approach of yours in exactly the same way if you're equal to your fellow MPs and the opposition. It's hard to expect that, because the vice president of the assembly gave you two minutes and 40 seconds, so 40 seconds more for the replica, we have to choose our own replica in such a way as to prove that we heard our name and last name, and I don't think that's really correct. But, once again, I say, that is exactly what we call, insisting on the importance and in this law, the importance of independent institutions and people who will work in this body, we call on both the Prime Minister and the President of the State and all the executive bodies not to give themselves the right to both directly and indirectly affect these decisions, and the indirect influences and that kind of statement as "I do not give my ministers" before any institution enters the process and explores the mentioned event, unfortunately, there was no. So, God forbid he's never there again and we don't have a chance to talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32614	Mr. Kiric, you didn't have to fight for your right to replicate. I was talking to my colleague, Comic, not you. That's what I asked my name and last name for, and you got up, you asked for a word, first thing. The second thing, if you look at the more carefully stenographic notes, you will see that I have been a colleague of Babić in two minutes and 15 seconds and warned that he is bringing his discussion to an end. At the same time, I warned, so, in the second minute and 15 seconds of my colleague Komic, because someone brought a Rules of Procedure where the right to the replica is supposed to be two minutes, and we're making a little tolerance so that MPs can have the full effects of one replica instead of making three or four replicas because the MP couldn't say everything in the first thing he wanted. If Col. Comic had spoken to her up to 45 seconds after she was out, I would have also turned off her microphone as my colleague Babic. If you'd like the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I accept. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32615	I would answer to fear experts, because, like, when they want to see fear in other people's eyes, it's dangerous because they want to be generators of that fear. I'm afraid as a believer of the Lord God and I'm afraid of just one more thing, which is that we're ever back in position by 2012, the devastated society, the destroyed public finances, the rates of corruption and crime and all that DS meant and did but it's working now on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Let's go back to the root of this case without passion. I would like to see here one hand raised, one voice raised to say -- if I were a minister, if I were in a position of anyone, I wouldn't raise a helicopter and I wouldn't send it to New Market to save one child and one human life. Would you, Mr. Kiriæ, make such a decision? Would you not raise a helicopter because they would say – you know, will weather change or will the flight path change or anything; or would you think about the life of a child at that point? When did Mr. Vucic say - I don't give the ministers; and when I say - we don't give the ministers; we don't give the skulls for human, human decision to use the means, to use that helicopter, to try to save a human life, or do you take the decision and role as in the Muppet show? The two guys sitting on the balcony all the time who's gonna say, "Why didn't you send a helicopter?" Then when a helicopter is sent, it says, "Why did you send a helicopter?" It's politics, it's bad. Then there's no dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32616	It's time, Grandma.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32617	Therefore, this case is in the process, this case will be placed by independent judicial authorities, and I expect Mr. Ciric to make a very explicit statement saying that Vukic has influenced the judicial decisions, that in the next line, and I am sure he will come forward to offer an apology to Mr. Vukic because there is no justification in the truth what he has said in a little while.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32618	I'd like to thank my colleague Babic. Right on the replica, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32619	Thank you. General places that have served here for years as a good excuse for all DS sins I won't comment on and I won't replicate, three years, this is the fourth calendar year we've heard the politics of good excuses. A good excuse is good at politics, but if it's short-lived. It has long had very negative effects on the users of the strategy – it accuses Democrats of everything; and therefore there is no special replica, but there is no relation to what is said about our issues. So, if the question is tried, how did the minister come up with the information on which he made the decision on the rescue mission, and turn it into that -- wouldn't you help? Then I ask you one more time, how did he get the information that he needed to launch a rescue mission? Who tipped him off? Prime Minister? The Minister of Health? Director of Health Services? Who tipped him off? Private channels? Who told him the situation was such that he needed to launch a rescue mission? This is a missing piece of information in both reports, a key piece of information for both reports, and has been left out who informed the defence minister. In that he makes the decision, I'm not going in. I see a surprise on the other hand, which means someone here knows information about why the minister brought in the information, who told him that they had acquired the conditions to launch a rescue mission. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: And who told you to rob the Vojvodina Development Bank?) The People's Messenger answers the question by throwing - who told you to rob anything. In addition to violating the Rules of Procedure, the MP also shows the weakness of the argument and shows that it is good that we are persistent in seeking answers to the question - who and on whose basis and whose information has the minister made a decision on the rescue mission? If you listen a bit, then you hear it, as well as the question of who changed the flight plan, because it also lacks answers in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32620	Thank you. Right on line, MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32621	I wouldn't answer for this replica, but I got a direct question -- what would you do, and I wouldn't analyze deeper accusations that have been going lightly all these years and it's the easiest thing to charge, indeed, with people from the DS. But here, I'll try to give you a direct answer as to what I would do in that situation. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: A you poor naive. And you can see it's hard...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32622	Please, don't throw Ambassador Ziric away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32623	But I'll remind you again that you gave Mr. Babic two minutes and 30 seconds for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32624	Would you like to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32625	What was my position in this situation, which is that I would certainly raise the entire rescue mission, of course, but with respect and the right of professionals to say what they think about meteorological conditions, what they think about the airport they're going to land on, how they're going to lead that mission. Of course, it is something that is necessary to respect, therefore, all procedures and therefore we insist on respecting procedures and respect for institutions and overall creating an atmosphere in every institution that you have the right and that professionals have the right to say and not to. Weather conditions have not been met, I say as an example, they have not acquired technological, technical conditions, they have provided both work and work for every minister and all people who run institutions in the state. In this way, it insists on strengthening institutions. We have come to this debate precisely on this subject and on this law, with an attempt to return to this law, which is precisely an insistence on strengthening the institutions and integrity of the people who will lead these institutions and who will have no fear of each of their own autonomous decisions, but we will respect their rights to propose to both the Prime Minister and the Ministers and the Directors of Public Enterprises an opinion on what is a professional approach and what is the safest approach for every citizen of Serbia and those who are the subject of either rescue missions or the leadership of any system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32626	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32627	In the style of my esteemed colleague, who knows about what's in everyone's head, I can ask – and who made the decision to board a cameraman and costumed Santa on December 30, 2003? Who made the decision to take Santa on a helicopter? On the other hand, the helicopter then fell into the center of the Kragujevac. What's the decision, which institution allowed it? Was that the way to go? So, putting Santa and the child's life in the same box, in the same rank, I don't just know if we're speaking the same language here. Life at risk, while someone would ask for weather conditions from the Alps to Karpat, technical characteristics of helicopters 30 years old, while you would report it all, well, half of Serbia would be gone. Or it's that position, always elegant and beautiful in our society, whatever you do, someone will criticize you. On the other hand, Mr. Kiric, that the victim's level would last year be in floods if it were all the same as you just said? Do you think when it was necessary to save people from Fecketić's junk, that they were ideal conditions for take-off, for take-off and landing, so they took off and landed heroes and saved people's lives? Do you think in the floods everything was ideal, so they took off, landed and saved? Those are rescue missions, they're high-risk missions. What do you think it takes atest that from Belgrade to Novi Pazar there will be no emergency meteorological conditions? No, everything is ideal for guaranteeing the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32628	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32629	But I did get an answer to one question, and I didn't get an apology because you falsely accused the Prime Minister of affecting court decisions. Whether it's an auto projection from the previous time or not, I insist on an apology, because you said that Alexander Vukic influenced court decisions and judgments, which is an absolute lie, Mr. Ciric, and I insist on an apology.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32630	Right on line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32631	Thank you. Our misunderstanding is banal, but deep, and so deep that, unfortunately, we will need a joint effort much more than it seems in the first wave to understand what the rule of law is and what protocols are and what subordination is and what documents, acts that must be respected in the case of rescue missions, whether they are carried out by the Ministry of Defense or the Ministry of Defense. Especially since at this point we are discussing a law where the central role will be played by the lead investigator who will work, whose job will be to investigate accidents. If we don't understand what the protocol is, if we don't understand what subordination is and if we don't understand that there is no answer to the question – how has the defence minister come up with information that a rescue mission is needed, we are not helping Minister Mihajlovic. I'd like to help her, because this is a pioneering job. You can mock as much as you want, you can yell – you can laugh, and you can laugh. It is a mockery of the rule of law because Minister Mihajlovic is not the majority minister. She is the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this is the National Assembly in which the MPs of the Republic of Serbia are. If we're going to use this debate to show how sincerely we don't understand what the rule of law is, then the president of the parliamentary group of the largest parties in the coalition is going to do without me, but the defence minister will remain to be asked who gave him the information that a mission needs to be launched, based on whose information he made such a decision and who changed the flight plan when the rescue mission was near the end? It's my duty and it's a commitment to the rule of law. I hope you'll be more associated. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: And where is the money from the Vojvodine Development Bank?) ) National MP Martinovic throws – where is the money? Where you spent it, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32632	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32633	I'll be brief. I don't think any of us here are judges or prosecutors. I just think we should let the D.A. do his job, and when the D.A. does his job, then we'll get answers to all the questions that everybody's asking, whatever those questions are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32634	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. (Zoran Babic, from the place: How? ) The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: We did not open them. It was a personal reference. We didn't run them with replicas. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: What money did I spend? Probably his own, Mr. Martinovic. You couldn't spend others. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: We have no savings. I'm setting a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The People's MP Zoran Babic has the right to reply. The People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32636	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mrs. Comic asked me, or she told me the money was where I spent it. The Serbian Progressive Party has not spent any single dinar from the Vojvodine Development Bank nor the Vojvodina Capital Investment Fund, nor the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development. This money was robbed by the Democratic Party. I ask you, if it wasn't for this robbery that didn't happen, I think in no well-organised state, you who ask where Minister Gasic came from that information that one sick New Pazar child is at risk of life, ask yourself how many helicopters, how many aircraft, how many means of fighting, how many means to save people, could be bought in the Republic of Serbia that Bojan Pajtic and your family have not been using each other's funds without eyes, and that they haven't robbed, and that they haven't stolen since 2000, and God, in Vojvodina, here, and in 2015. The rubber boats Serbia didn't have because your minister sold them. Why do we need rubber boats? What do we need anything for? How many tanks did you burn in the Srederjevska Irons? And now you're innocent, you're not guilty of anything. I need to answer the question where the money is, instead of you asking yourself yourself. If you hadn't stolen as much as you stole, Serbia could have the best army in Europe. And no one's life in Serbia would be at risk. And our helicopters wouldn't be 20 or 30 or who knows how old they are. Ask your bosses from Novi Sad how many apartments do they have in Novi Sad? How many planted vineyards in Erdewik? How many apartments in Vienna and who knows where in the white world? Whose money? From ours? From the Serbian Progressive Party? From my parents?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32637	Time, fellow Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32638	No, I don't. There goes a couple of Serbian citizens and a couple of Vojvodina citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32639	Comrade Granny, do you want a replica? (Zoran Babic, from the place: it's enough.) ) The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32640	The respected chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected Serbian citizens, stands before us today at the debate of three traffic laws and the importance of all these three laws are primarily in the fact that they show the strategic commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry on their way to the EU, i.e. the government's strategic commitment to bring legislation into line with legislation and to harmonize with EU legislation. In addition to agreeing with EU regulation and the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this government as a responsible government, as a government that also takes care of the economy and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, signed an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United States on air traffic in May this year. What I must stress is that since May 1992 there has been no air flight between the Republic of Serbia on the route of Belgrade-United States. This is certainly what a significant agreement is, above all, with three aspects – from a legal point of view, because it represents one legal framework for further co-operation, but also from an economic and economic aspect. I must also point out that this agreement actually shows that the Republic of Serbia is a safe and secure state, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you who signed this agreement on behalf of the Government, a reliable and reliable partner in the negotiations, in the talks and a secure partner in the adoption and of course implementation of the agreed agreement. I must also point out that they amend and supplement the Law on Obligation and Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, given that it is in focus, i.e. at the centre of these amendments and additions to the laws, there are rights of passengers using air traffic. What I would like to point out is that, in fact, these amendments and the amendments to the laws have been made to the alignment of articles 11 and 12 of the previous law, which referred to the cost of the flight delays. But what has not been pointed out so far is that this law is also a step forward when it comes to market competition, because this law provides that when air carriers conclude a lease contract for more than six months, they do not have to register aircraft. This is also quite significant, because the current law has proposed this, and this represented many obstacles to air carriers, for the reason they had to ask for the print-out of aircraft, if the aircraft was registered in a foreign register, then they had to confirm their contractual obligations before the competent court in the Republic of Serbia, and after they entered the air carrier register in the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this law, except for the achievement of market competition, and how it achieves the interest of airlines to operate in accordance with the law, because passengers will certainly choose those airlines that, when it comes to the compensation of their costs, when it comes to ensuring the minimum rights relating to flight delays and flight cancellations, and to boarding flights for no legitimate reason, and also when it comes to protection of persons with disabilities and protection of persons with reduced mobility, certainly choose the air carrier who guarantees all these rights. Of course, the number of passengers depends on the position of air carriers, and this is certainly an additional motivation for air carriers to operate absolutely in accordance with the law. The third law that is on the agenda today, which is actually a system law, which is a new law, and I want to express all praise to your ministry for making this law, is a law relating to the investigation of air accidents, in rail and water traffic. I must point out that this law is the result of compliance with EU law, it is also the result of compliance with the practice of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, but also with the practice of the International Maritime Organisation. I would also like to point out that this law stemmed from the project activity that was carried out, it seems to me, the ministry, the improvement of the accident research process in the period from September 2013 to February 2014 and where one of the results of the implementation of this project actually resulted in the need to pass a single law that would treat the investigation of accidents in all three aspects, in air, rail and water transport. What I particularly want to point out is that it is the only preventional character of the accident research centre. Why do I want to point out that preventive character? With a preventive character, in fact, the accident research center, except that it's an independent organ, it needs to answer three very important questions. The first question to describe the description of the accident, the second question to answer why the accident happened, or to investigate the cause, and the third question to be answered, is, what should be done to avoid the accident? It's actually a cause analysis. This is the placement of security recommendations, primarily according to relevant institutions, and these relevant institutions are the Government, the Transport Sector and other legal persons who, in fact, can bring an adequate legal framework based on these security recommendations to increase security and reduce accidents. Finally, I would like to say that I hope that during 2016, the accident research centre will operate in full capacity, in line with the systematization of jobs, that it will have 16 employees and will adequately be able to respond to its basic work, and its basic job is actually an independent investigation into transport accidents and recommending relevant institutions. The Serbian Progressive Party, no dilemma, will support all three laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32641	Thank you. The People's MP Nebojsa Petrovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32642	Thank you, Your Honor. On my part, I would also like to give a very positive assessment of what has been done in the last year on the agenda of the Assembly, which is for the first time the Law on accident research and in air, rail and water transport. As a professional who's been in the air force for 25 years, I'd like to say this. There have been words here today by several MPs about the importance of passing this law, and I would perhaps like to give a key or roof reason why I think it's not only good, but it was necessary to pass such a law. It is something that can be defined in one sentence as one decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue to deal with civil aviation. I stress this here to the civil air force, since, Madam Vice President, today, you've given your generosity to a number of MPs to completely step out of the topic of today's debate and deal with that segment of the Air Force called the Air Force. At this point, still, until our Assembly adopts a new Law on accident research, when it comes to aviation, my interest zone, in the Civil Air Traffic Act, we have nine members of the law dealing with accident investigations and serious accidents and, of course, it is understood, since air traffic law is civil air traffic. And in that law, which I say is still valid, it is clearly indicated that the accidents that occur to military aircraft are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defense. Investigations into these incidents are in the sole jurisdiction of the Department of Defense. It's not our specialty, it's not our invention, it's something we've also taken over, not as a liquid, but as one norm that we've had to build into this current law, because it refers to research in civil aviation. So, and this new law, which is on the agenda today, does not contain a provision that defines that we will be dealing with accident and serious accidents, one word accident in civil air traffic, and when it comes to military aircraft alone, but, as you've had opportunities, I hope you read, there are three special cases in which mixed commissions are formed by the Ministry of Defence and by the chief investigator as the director of the centre. All these three special cases were directly agreed or agreed with the Ministry of Defense, so this is not something that the promoter himself, so to speak, invented, but agreed with the restoring ministry for this area of the Air Force. So, once again, I appeal, with all due respect to the desire to use a pay phone in the National Assembly for another topic, that this still does not burden this debate on the Law on the investigation of accidents in civil traffic, in air, water, or maritime and rail traffic. Also, what I think is very important to point out, and here, in some ways, it's a question, is the definition of forming a centre, based on which to establish a third pillar in the civil aviation security system. It is something that is primarily our relationship to this first expressed desire, which is that Serbia continues to deal with civil aviation. You know, it's not a question of relations with the EU, it's not just a question of relations with international institutions, it's primarily a question of our decision to continue to deal with civil aviation. So in order to do this further, we need to form this third pillar of security within the civil aviation sector. So far, as two prominent pillars, there were civil aviation authorities in every country, in our case, the Civil Aviation Directorate, and an air traffic provider, which is flight control. The third pillar now being formed by us for a year and a half, which will be confirmed by this new law, is an accident research centre. What was the dilemma of the promoter himself, is that what kind of status to get that center? Should he be an agency, like these two previously mentioned institutions, or should he be a special organization? It is definitely constantly on the point of being a special organisation, which absolutely defines the status of such an institution in the legal system or system of state administration, whatever you want, the Republic of Serbia. Like the Hydrometeorological Institute, like the Secretariat of Legislatives, and this is a special organization. It shall be subject to all rules, regulations, all laws relating to the state administration, in this case and to employees within that centre, shall apply to the Law on civil servants. What does that mean? This means that the director of that center could be appointed someone has to propose it to the government. In the case of those institutions within a ministry, the motion minister is, as you know. Since this is an institution that is not directly under any ministry, it is already private and independent, which is why we have achieved this independence, it must appear as the prime minister's proposal. The government appoints, and the Prime Minister, as someone who unites all ministries, the work of all ministries and special organisations, appears as a proposal for who will be the head of the institution. Of course, as the Civil Service Act says, after a competition was announced and executed for the post. So, any doubt about that segment is absolutely out, because it's clearly defined by the law. What I would still like to say, although through this law, of course, it can be very detailed and by the items of all, is that link with international organisations, that conditionality in some way with the very text of the law, what it says in the two crucial, two most significant texts on which this law is based. The first annex of the 13th Chicago Convention, which since the signing of the Chicago Convention, has been concerned with security within air traffic, which since 1951, when the first additions of that annex 13 were made, until last year when we also signed some additional amendments to Annex 13, more than 15 to 16 times changed. That's what we're talking about, now we're EU regulation. In October 2010, the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, adopted a regulation or regulation, according to us, 996. It clearly defines the overall procedure and the conditions under which centres and procedures are formed under which they have to work, i.e., the conditions they need to meet so that they can be independent and be, I say, functional, which is very important. So that regulation, or regulation, is something that needs to be implemented, or installed into our legal system. It's not a recommendation, it's not a directive, it's a regulation. It must be installed in the legal system. In what way? In this case, the EU has also helped us through a tweeting project that concerned exactly the part relating to accident research and serious accidents, both in rail and in water transport. The result of this project, which from 2013 until the beginning of this year, when it was completed and in some way gave certain results, proved itself to be a solution, is that for this volume and traffic, this volume, so to say, the participants in air traffic on all grounds, not only in terms of traffic itself, traffic execution, but all institutions, all organisations involved in this process, so that those who, right now, may little and that I banalise, from those who design to those who perform, mean they produce some air products, to all those who deal with certain regulations and, of course, those who fly, which are essentially the most. So, compared to all of this, let me say, one scan of our country, it's proposed that we create an integrated security system, a system that will monitor all three aspects together. It wasn't that easy. You may see little in the text itself, but not nearly as many colleagues here, let's just say, apostrophealed. It is simply because there is a discrepancy, as the colleagues commented on the text of the law itself, stems from differences in the definitions relating to air traffic, rail traffic and water transport, which, as in air traffic, relate to the said regulation, also in rail and water transport, refers to certain regulations that define it within the EU, which are related to these types of traffic. There are differences but in terminology, not in the inconsistencies of what is the essence of the whole law. I don't think it stands as an observation either. That it was very important to do this whole job, and it was started by forming an accident and serious accident centre, shows exactly the text of an agreement concerning the relations between Serbia and the United States regarding air traffic. Last year, somewhere in March of the month, there was a delegation here from the federal air authorities of America, and then, as one of theirs, to say, "check point", one of the points that they examined whether our state meets the conditions to get category one, was that and whether there is a lead investigator, in this case then and still only for air traffic and whether the centre is forming. It was also a positive answer to those questions that we had in the talks with the representatives of the US Air Force, and resulted, here, after almost a year and a few days and by signing a contract, or by getting a category one. Category one is something very important, not only through political relations with America but also through the opening of a new market which is very important for the survival of our civil aviation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32643	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32644	Dear Vice-President, together with the vice-presidents, the other, respected minister, together with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have three traffic laws ahead, and I will focus my attention on the proposal for a law on air, rail and water accidents. It is a pleasure to see you again, Madam Minister Mihajlović, here in this high house, among us. I have to say, very often. This speaks of your relationship to your dedicated work, both you and your ministry and your entire government as a whole, to the jobs that stand before you. And this law has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, whom he submitted to us, the MPs, here in this high house, the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on 27 April 2014. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and, let's not forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic is the most transparent, precise, maximum 52 pages, the best and most meaningful of all 72 previous exposés since the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister Prote Matija Nenadovic, 1805 until today. Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic devoted in his exhibition three pages of exposure, from 24 to 27 pages. Dear People's MPs, it is no wonder that the Prime Minister has dedicated traffic in an exposé more than some previous prime minister to all members of the exposé, in total exposures, because he is aware that traffic is a fundamental factor not only in the development of Serbian society but in the survival of our social community. Dear Madam Minister, honourable MPs, traffic is a social blood stream and where traffic arteries do not reach, these areas are demographically dying, so the Prime Minister dedicated three pages to his traffic exposé. Traffic is not only a basic factor of our country's development but is an integral factor of society as a whole. This is a new law that is before us and that is very good, because it will finally be regulated in detail in the area of accident research both in air and in rail and water traffic. The investigation of accidents presents a very complex first-row issue from legal technical and then security aspects. That's why it was supposed to be regulated by a special law, which is why you, Madam Minister, did and thank you for that. This law provides that professional activities related to accident research and serious accidents are being carried out by the Center for the Research of Accidents, as we have heard from most MPs today. What is important and what I would underline, which is that the Centre will be independent and independent in its work, and this bill provides that no one can limit the content and scope of the accident research, then affect the content and scope of the research or the scope and content of the security recommendations provided by the Centre. It's very important that I don't say the most important thing. All incidents of ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and serious air traffic accidents as foreseen by this bill must be investigated and analysed in order to determine the facts of which occurred, if possible, the causes and measures taken to prevent new accidents and serious accidents. This is how it is done in all European countries. It is also foreseen that the centre is required to investigate any accident or serious accident of the total mass of aircraft on take-off of more than 2,250 kilograms and investigate all accidents or serious accidents of other aircraft if death occurs. As foreseen, the research will be conducted by a centre for the removal of causes of accidents that are not intended to determine criminal, commercially criminal, criminal, disciplinary, civil law or other responsibilities. The competent judicial authorities are in charge of the investigation, but they can provide the Centre with the files and documents necessary to conduct the accident investigation procedure if they do not interfere with the investigation process and it is very clear. Also, the movement of aircraft that has suffered an accident is allowed only in the case of the rescue of people, luggage and goods, the removal of fire hazards, or if the aircraft interferes with the safe conduct of traffic in general. The centre has the right to have unlimited and uninterrupted access to the crash site or serious aircraft accidents in its contents and wreck to make up a list of evidence and ensure a controlled removal of the wreck and parts of the aircraft for further examination, which I believe is very important. Dear ladies and gentlemen, all the participants in the crash will have the opportunity to be heard. They will be allowed to use the results of the investigation, which is very important. The centre's headquarters, as you know, is scheduled to be in Belgrade, and will be headed by a top investigator who has the position of director of a special organisation to be appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia for a five-year period with the government's proposal. In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you, MPs, in the day to vote, to give your vote for this set of laws. I particularly urge you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the opposition benches to vote for these laws and to give your vote for them, because at least a little, even in this way, you will manifest your affection for modernising Serbia for which, both in the heart and in the unrelenting heat stands for and not only for it but also for our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic, most of the MPs in this high house, as well as the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32645	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32646	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly support the laws we're discussing today, and I have to admit by about thirty minutes ago, I was under the very strong impression of the support that was heard by the list of colleagues who spoke to each other today about this principle debate. I have to say again, on the other hand, in the last 30 minutes, something's gone wrong for me. Guess what? Because, well, I guess we haven't been able to resist the temptation to mention things that weren't in place today, and that's where I'm talking about a helicopter accident that I agree with, it's not supposed to be politicized. I would remind only in two sentences, not more, I will not take more of your time, of the memo we received from the Government on May 4th, which refers to the then-examination idea that the survey committee is formed in which it is very precise and what is done and how the information has been put into account and is proposed, more than correctly, that this topic is not politicised, at that point, through the questions of the committee of inquiry, until the proceedings initiated by the competent authorities have been completed, and it is thought of by the prosecution. I think that information is such that it can only honestly be accepted and that such a proposal is good enough that it can only be accepted honestly. I'm saying this, first of all, because of some sessions ahead of us. I would recommend that we listen to him and agree with colleagues who today said we shouldn't burden the debate and agree that we should take care of the ethical moment in the whole story, not to spoil the impression from today's session. Of course, I support these agreements, and I'm glad that, minority everyone, and I'm going to consider that one vote that was negatively oriented according to today's proposals, just one moment when we're giving attention, since it wasn't with any negative assessment, no reason why we shouldn't support anything that we're talking about today. I think it's a good sign, and I'd like to give myself an interesting aspect and we've talked about it today, but I want to point it out one more time, in addition to these laws having significant contributions in the field of traffic and having an important role in this area, they have a very expressive component that belongs to the sphere of what we consider foreign policy. The first law relating to the investigation of air, rail and water accidents, as well as the second, obligations and fundamentals of property-legal relations in air traffic, bring directly to them good proposals, formed in order to speed up the introduction of European standards, to harmonise regulations in this sense and to explain unequivocally that there is support for our common accession process. When it comes to the third proposal, about the agreement with the United States, we heard today several times, it has a dimension that exceeds the purely economic and purely economic aspect and it is still more than that, it unequivocally promotes our relations at an interstate level, between Serbia and the United States, and it is an obligation for the Republic of Serbia to relate responsibly, when forming its relations, both with the states of European space and with the United States. In that sense, I welcome the fact that we have agreed here and I use an additional few seconds to support this proposal and I express my expectations that in the day of voting we will indeed, without distinction, support for what we have discussed today, because even though there have been more situations, where we have had such announcements, somehow support for these processes and this kind of responsibility by some in this room, turns out to be purely word support. I believe that we enter an era when we change these habits and that kind of practice and really all together we stand behind what we represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32647	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32648	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, honourable fellow Members of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful Svrljig municipality located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, that is the town of Nis. Normally, I, as the People's MP of the United Peasants' Party, will fully support the set of these laws and today I will talk about this draft air traffic law between our country and the United States. At the end of May of this year, an agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the US Ambassador, on the basis of which the law after 25 years will allow our planes and air traffic planes from America to work together and thus have the possibility that the greater number of our people from Serbia and America will come to us and share both the tourist part and this part of the economic part. I will be very brief, this law and this agreement should be supported because in this way we will have a really great opportunity for more people from our country, from America to be on the line and together we have the opportunity to bring more investors into Serbia, let's say in Nis, Johnson Electric is almost open, it's an American firm. American investors employ a large number of people with us. Thousands of people are employed by American investors and this way we will better establish our co-operation. On the other hand, the signing of this agreement and between our Deputy Prime Minister, Madam Minister and the US Ambassador, will be a sign that more investors from all parts of the world come to Serbia and invest. This agreement will have a greater opportunity for our products that are Serbian to come to the US market and let's think of the one before when they had very good co-operation with America, when we exported our "South", the so-called "South America", where according to some polls it was most exported to the US market, which is from the country of Europe. This is a great opportunity and the possibility that more such products as was once "South America" to be exported to America and that in this way we can export again from all over Serbia to Kragujevac cars, we can export quality goods from our Serbia, agricultural production, such as from Svrljjig, we can export Svrljilji cheese, svrljilji Belmuž, from Merošina Vishnja, Književci chernje and a large number of other such agricultural products. On the other hand, for us, there's also a great chance, it's tourism, and with this signing agreement, we have a great chance of other people from America coming to Serbia to be tourists. Here is a great opportunity for 31st of July, 1st August and 2nd of August to come to Svrljig at Belmužijad and thus to be all together and to increase the budget and our citizens in Serbia, and tourists from America can also have something nice to see. I would point out once again that this is a great thing for us, that this will be a great opportunity for "Nikola Tesla" Airport, and I expect that, in the coming period, the Car Konstantin Great Airport will have the opportunity for people from America to come here, and through this way, that a large number of our people living in southeastern Serbia will provide jobs and new investments. Once again, I fully support this agreement and all other agreements proposed by our government headed by our prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-21-0.u32649	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search and a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude the principle of a single search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. This concludes today's work and continues the session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
