ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22428	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament shall put their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 117 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dr Dijana Vukomanovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Mladen Grujic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on: THE PROPOSAL OF THE WEAPON AND THE GUNS. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Interior Minister Milorad Todorovic Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, Predrag Maric, Assistant Minister of Interior and Head of the Interior Ministry's Emergency Sector, Zorica Lončar Kasalica, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior, Ivan Zarev, Head of the Department for Prevention Protection at the Department of Emergency Affairs of the Interior Ministry and Miljko Simovic, Assistant Chief of the Administration of the Interior Ministry. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22429	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished guests from the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Stefanovic, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I believe that just before, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were injured and members of 283th and 284th when Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, one of us here, was, for the 18th time in a row, prevented from entering a large hall of the National Assembly so that, respected gentlemen and respected presidents of the National Assembly, would participate in the debate on 17 amendments which he himself submitted on the draft laws that we are discussing today in particular. I remind all MPs that Mr. Zivkovic was the Minister of Interior of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, that his participation in this debate and, based on such experience, would make a significant contribution to the quality of our debate, gentlemen. I must add here another argument, the Honorable National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, I listened to your performance this morning at the Public Service when you announced that the next National Assembly president would decide whether someone had used an inappropriate term, an inappropriate word or a coin, and perhaps to move away from the session of the National Assembly, and then I asked myself, and here I asked you to ask who, respected presidents, would respond to the will of the chair of the National Assembly? I suggest that it be you today, say the chairman made a mistake and invite Mr. Zivkovic to enter the O.R. and take part in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22430	Your proposal is denied. It's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is common as long as the sentence of MP Zoran Zivkovic is due to the word "stoko" or "stoko one", I did not determine whether one word or two words were, although they were opposed to one another, because there is no cattle one, and we can open the controversy another time, so that the punishment that has been imposed is very appropriate and the punishment that he later established and the Administrative Board is also appropriate and everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure. We're not gonna talk about this any further. I'm glad you're listening very carefully to the President's interviews. Do you want us to vote on the injury? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 of the 107th and Article 113 regarding the presentation of my previous esteemed colleague, Pavicevic. I agree that the measure of Article 113 is a dragon, but because of this measure, it is not necessary to violate the dignity of the National Assembly team before I do not support such dragon measures, especially when the question is my fellow farmer. For stable, professional reasons, I am forced to stand up for rights, because the professor here has as much as you want, and also a respected colleague Pavicevic can confirm that, but the farmer has very little of us. I'm against such a dragon measure, but I'm also against not following the rules. This rule was passed by a former assembly of the National Assembly, so the party on whose list Pavicevic was elected as well. That's why I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated when Prof. Pavicevic, who knows the legal system very well, insists that legal procedures are not respected, and the old ones say the best rules are the rules to be applied. I don't know how many times this breach of the Rules of Procedure has been advertised, but if someone is damaged, then we are damaged farmers, not teachers, and I wonder, given that there is always an injury to the expression of freedom, etc., what Professor Pavicevic was doing on the list of such an organization that only in his name has the word democratic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22432	Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the MUP, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. The bill of arms and ammunition and it is one of the amendments that have not been adopted. I would like, the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, to use the time I have to try to convince the distinguished guests of the MUP that they were wrong to choose not to accept our amendment, and here, to make an additional argument here. Namely, gentlemen of the 1st. The draft law regulates the procurement, holding, carrying, collection, repair, processing, transport, intermediation and transport of weapons and ammunition. Our proposal, gentlemen, is to add one word to Article 1 of this bill, and that word is "correction". We feel that this law is necessary to regulate and build weapons and ammunition, and here I am trying to explain and refer to the explanation that came from our guests here today. In order to understand what creation means, of course, it is necessary that we define the meaning of that term and then we, in a special member of this bill, define the meaning of this term, say - making weapons is an independent weapon capable of firing ammunition at gunpowder, respected gentlemen. Surely there is a question for the People's Messengers here – what is the point? The promoter says - the purpose of this proposal is production. We say this - the purpose of this proposal, gentlemen, is to regulate this issue legally. Dear Ministers and esteemed gentlemen, let us now, for example, imagine that one person A, not to be named in imaginary situations by anyone, takes a water pipe, for example, and builds an impromptu gun. I also now have some photos of such possible guns being improvised. You can see that. Then it really becomes a weapon from one of the categories defined by a later member of the law. Be careful, if we don't regulate this bill, and the proposer says, it's a complex area that should be governed by a special law, which is unedited. It's not any industrial production, it's not the production of military equipment, gentlemen, it's some kind of crafty thing where a man can take a water pipe, build an improvised gun, and if he has it, we don't have any legal options to react to it. So, such an impromptu gun, gentlemen, can be capable of firing ammunition at gunpowder. We believe this law should be settled. In other words, gentlemen, if we define certain categories here, I find it absurd that we have weapons repairs in the bill, that this proposal defines this without defining and creating in this way the weapon that is matter that regulates this bill. It seems to me that if we define the design of the weapon as we propose later in Article 3, then it belongs to what according to the Ministry Act is just part of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior. Please consider the contents of our proposals a little bit more carefully. We believe that it is necessary for this bill and this weapon to be recognized in law as a firearm, and according to the categories that are later mentioned in the bill, which, if we do not recognize how we propose, will not be recognized at all. Then the possibility, as far as I understand it, is that person A, person B, person C, a lot of people try to make it this way, craftsy to say, in their spare time, some weapon that will be able to be classified as essential in some category, and we will not legally regulate it. It seems to me, gentlemen, that our proposal is very meaningful, and if it is possible to think a little bit more about improving this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22434	The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22435	I have to say, I don't agree with you because of two things. First, if you look at the Law on Ministrys and the Law on Government, you will see that the detour, or production, if we first talk about the production of weapons, does not belong to the work of the MUP. Two, if we go back to what you mentioned, let's say someone who wants to use one hollow pipe to make a weapon out of it, they'll come under the hit of Article 347. A criminal code, which defines how such an act is punished. A prison sentence has been threatened from six months to five years in prison. We felt we shouldn't repeat the same norm that exists in the Criminal Code twice, because it's a roof act, a roof law, which in fact defines this matter. There's no need to repeat it in this law. But I understand this well-meaningly, that you wanted to fix the law and that's why I'm explaining this to you in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22436	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22437	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Gentlemen of the Ministry, after such an exhaustive speech by Mr. Minister, it's hard to add anything. However, this amendment should clearly be rejected for the simple reason that the government has beautifully written that this law regulates the procurement, holding, carrying, collection, filling, refurbishing, traffic, intermediation and transport of weapons and ammunition, without making. Why? Because the M.O.P. doesn't have the authority to build a weapon. That's the kind of thing you need to build a factory for. There's a law to be made, a whole new law, because amendments aren't explained enough what you wanted. So it's clear that your amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22438	Thank you. Mr Pavicevic, by amendment I can give you my word He can't do the replica because there was nothing controversial about it, so he didn't interpret you well, but the minister answered. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can't the replica?]] You have two minutes, if you want to spend your time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22439	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished guests from the MUP, respected presidents of the National Assembly, it is impossible to refuse an offer to use time, since it is very restrictive here to use time from the opposition MPs, but here I am trying three things to answer Minister Stefanovic to convince him and his associates and associates to accept this amendment anyway. First of all, Mr. Stefanovic, it is not appropriate for me to enter into whose intention it is to act. If we go into whether someone has good or bad intentions, then we open up a terrible field of bias and arbitration. So my suggestion is not to comment on whether the intention is good or bad, but to comment on the content of the proposal, gentlemen. We have a concrete proposal here. Of course my idea is good to fix this bill. The second thing, I think it's important here to say that our definition of weapon making doesn't mean, and here's Mrs. Malusic, to say, does not mean production. We say – if this proposal is possible, we are dealing with the repair of weapons, and someone might comment that it is also a kind of production, a recast, and it's also a production of something else. We do not say – production, precisely by respecting the Government Act, but by saying – making weapons is an independent weapon capable of firing ammunition at gunpowder thrust. This is the situation when a person A takes a water pipe to create such a weapon, starts using it, and we do not have, unlike some other things and questions, this bill regulates that question, that is, this problem. I think we should solve such problems, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22440	The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22441	Here's why I think you're wrong. If we were to talk only about Article 347, where there really is a part of it that says that someone who makes weapons, who knows that it will be done, or that it will be used to commit a crime, can be punished, you would be right. However, there is also a member of 348 who Decidently says – whoever unauthorizedly manufactures, sells, acquires, exchanges or holds firearms, parts thereof, ammunition or explosive matter, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years and fines. So we have the Criminal Code absolute ban on unauthorized production. We don't need to define anything else by the Arms and Ammunition Act. So there's no matter to regulate. Criminal law prohibits unauthorized production, keeping parts, ammunition and any way illegal weapons possessions are prohibited. It's general acts that define it. So we have no doubt that if someone takes to produce weapons, whether they will be punished or not. So, only those who have the permission of the competent state authority to deal with all this will be authorized, and everyone else will be punished by a prison sentence. In this case, the norm is such that it's an absolute ban, so there's no need to double that standard in the Arms and Ammunition Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22442	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22443	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that this amendment be rejected, amendment of MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic to Article 1. It's a proposal for a law of reason that the government just gave. We're here today in a situation where we have a precedent and I want to point out the pleasure of that precedent. So there may be an amendment ahead of us for the first time in this session, and I see that this is the intensity during today's whole day, by representatives, or MPs Pavicevic and Zivkovic, who we can call meaningful amendments. So, finally, we are also in a position for those MPs not to propose amendments in the text "to be deleted", not to propose amendments that change certain interaction signs, but, I say, for the first time in this conference, they may have entered into the essence of a law, and they have written some meaningful amendments, and I really want to commend it. It's obvious that the criticism is bearing fruit. Obviously, the efforts that SNS MPs have made in several sessions, where they have called on those MPs to stop the cosmetic amendments and the amendments are "expunged", and I really want to praise that and stress the satisfaction. I hope we continue in this tone to discuss the adoption of the following laws. I repeat, I propose that this amendment be rejected for the reasons given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the fact that production is not something that treats this law in favour and I hope we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22444	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22445	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the honored president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I think it is okay to continue the debate we have started on our amendment to Article 1 of this Bill proposal, since our amendment to Article 3 of the same bill concerns the same issue and the same proposal on how to solve a problem, gentlemen. Since I feel that we should always use the time available to convince ourselves of something that is good, then it is okay for me to try again to convince our guests here today, including the MPs, to accept this amendment. Dear gentlemen, I believe this is an invitation to the members of the Criminal Code precisely one of the arguments why it is necessary to accept our amendment to Article 3 which is being introduced, as one of the points, in this bill and to define the coin of weapons. I would like to point out once again that this weaponmaking is not about the manufacture of weapons, as the motioner said in a formulation explaining why this amendment is not accepted. In Article 3, we propose to write – making weapons is an independent weapon capable of firing ammunition at gunpowder. Dear gentlemen, if we do not recognize this weaponmaking by this bill, and especially when it becomes a law, I fear that despite the contents of those members of the Criminal Code, this field will remain largely unregulated, and we should not contribute, first of all, as MPs respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22446	The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22447	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22448	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22449	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry and Government, as far as this amendment is concerned, I believe that we are the first country in Europe whose law mentions the term "convertible weapons" as a kind of weapon. In fact, the very definition of this weapon is so vague that some experts don't understand what kind of weapon it can be classified as automatic, old, fire, air, gas and signal weapons, because they have a non-transferable pipe. Also, under this amendment, I have submitted that "the hunting weapon is a long weapon" should be deleted from point 16. So the word "long" should be deleted, because I believe that the gun can be used as an auxiliary weapon during the hunt, and primarily for the purpose of life security. As for the third attitude, it should read – ammunition are bullets for firearms with debossed and smooth pipes. We all know the definition of a bullet. The bullet consists of a shell casing, a chapel, a gunpowder charge and a missile. Therefore, it should not be mentioned in the later part of the text. That part should be erased. I'm very glad the Committee supports this idea and I hope I've been reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22450	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22451	This last part you were talking about, we've already adopted the second amendment. As for the misunderstanding that was, we talked about it with various associations, carrying short arms on the hunt. There are situations where a hunter wants to make it easier for an animal, for example, that was hit, but we'd have a clue, when we caught someone with a gun and said yes, but I was just on my way to hunt, to prove, and there's no license to carry a weapon, whether he was going hunting or he was going to do something else. If such a crime were to be committed, then everyone would ask, "I'm sorry the police didn't sharpen it." So we would allow everyone to put a gun on the table and say that he was going hunting, so if he did something on the way to the hunting grounds, what should we do? Anyone who has a license to carry a gun can take his short pipe to the hunt and that makes it possible for him to do so, but we couldn't face it because we would open up a possible abuse field. So the law had to predict that possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22452	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić submitted the 3rd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22453	Dear President, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, this amendment refers to a section of Article 3 relating to the legalisation of weapons. So our opinion would be that in addition to being suggested that a practical person who wants to legalise weapons in no way bears responsibility, where that weapon proves to him the origin of the weapon. We believe that evaluations that can be individual within the Ministry of the Interior are not enough, but that it must be legally predicted that these weapons must be checked. It is explained here that it would discourage weapons owners who are currently illegal to report their weapons whose origin they do not know, and of course this does not mean that the competent authority will not check every piece of weapon. The law does not explicitly say that it needs to be checked, and here you say that it does not mean that the competent authority will not check, it is not experimental. I think this is defined the way we suggested much better, practically it has to be checked, and I don't have any dilemma that a weapon that doesn't have an original serial number, so it's probably already been the subject of some crime and it can't be registered. So, I understand the intensity of yours to leave the possibility of someone in the police deciding about it, but any way that someone might decide beyond the law, or that someone is bringing their own court, I don't think it's a good one and I'm opening up opportunities if there's nothing else for corruption, for sure. So, I suggested on behalf of the DS amendment in which it is more precisely defined and I say, I would like you to accept that amendment because the government is not, because I think it's really better and better for you as Minister and Ministry, because I'm going to face the situation safely so that someone just doesn't do it on purpose, because by law and doesn't have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22454	Thank you. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22455	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also want to say for a start as a People's MP, but also as president of the Hunting Union of Serbia that this bill is far better than the applicable one and that it is acceptable and quite good for a hunting organization, although there are still some things we have asked to change, some have been accepted. For some, say, at article 6, here, I'm spinning papers, and I can't find anything, you're going to have to convince me that one part is actually accepted as said. A colleague has already explained about the use of short arms or guns in hunting and hunting grounds, I understand we have these two views, we have a police view of the whole situation, we have a hunting view of the whole situation. Serbia has 75,000 registered hunters, therefore, who regularly buy from the state a hunting card, and the ministry gentlemen know how easily weapons can be lost today, reports those neighbours, domestic violence, even a case of non-taxation, a traffic operation that is subject to criminal prosecution, while the process is being seized. If we have 75,000 people who haven't done this, that means that we have, on purpose, this is what I'm talking about because of a picture of the hunters that this law applies to, often wrongly made in Serbia, it means that we have 75,000 people who are loyal citizens of this country, whose families are free from violence, who regularly pay taxes, who are respected people of this society and loyal citizens of this country. Now, when we look at this member, imagine you're hunting and a wolf comes after you. It's a big speed, I say wolf, then a wild pig, a boar, a deer, it's a great force. This amendment is simply about that, in order to increase security in the hunting grounds. I understand what the minister was talking about earlier, e.g. I'm supposed to sit in a car in Smederev and drive to the Coward Mountain, and that part can lead to the use, abuse of short weapons, but it can be another if we look at it that way. A rifle can be misused, not just a gun, and yet I'm saying, it's people who don't commit crimes and there's no practice for such a thing that's been done and that's what happened with us. After all, legal weapons are only below 2% that they have committed a crime in Serbia. We can accept the Ministry's argument, but maybe one more time to think about it. What's the problem? If it says so in the law, it can be very easy for an interpretation to be that the manager of the hunting grounds does not allow such a weapon to be introduced into the hunting grounds, because it is not provided for by the Arms and Ammunition Act, so as not to risk being reported or sanctioned by a police inspector, and he is a man who lives and receives a salary from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22456	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Neđo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22457	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the LSV Group has tabled 11 amendments, nine accepted. I thank the Minister and the Government. This is the first of the amendments to be accepted, and this applies to Article 4 that defines the categories of weapons and points 2 when it comes to category B, we have defined this in the following way – category B is each firearm (short, long, semi-automated, repetitive, single, double-mute, debossed and smooth tubes) except for the one in categories A and C and the conversion weapon. I think we made this definition to make this norm more precise than it was in the first text of the law. I think this way it'll be clearer to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22458	The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22459	Thank you, Chairman. I just want, as chairman of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, which was in charge of this bill, to present a few data that will once again contribute to the positive impression and constructive debate, which took place on the first day when we discussed this draft of the law in principle. 93 amendments were submitted to the proposal for a law on arms and ammunition, 26 adopted. Of which, 10 amendments to the opposition. We have 12 committee amendments, which is 38 of the 93 amendments that have been proposed. This shows that we have indeed all been extremely committed to the work of improving this bill. These amendments to the Committee are actually the result of our discussion on the first day, on Wednesday, when we spoke in the principle of law or when MPs proposed a certain amendment which is essentially acceptable, but should be corrected in some detail, so the Committee made some compromise solution because we accepted a certain article of the amendment, and we are obliged to adapt some other members of the law later to be in line with this new change. So, when we talk about this bill of arms and ammunition, this time we can all be proud of the Serbian parliament, because we have really significantly improved this bill for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. This is the first of those 40 amendments to be adopted on this bill. I thank all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22460	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22461	Allow me, Mr. Minister, just for a moment to look back at the amendment submitted by my colleague, Shormaz. I think the same danger is borne by hunters who have registered weapons and people who have registered weapons. The biggest mass murder in the last decade has just been a weapon with a hunting rifle. So we can't say that those who have a gun are more at risk of citizens' safety. I think it's an individual thing and that the amendment should be adopted, because a weapon with a short pipe is used to hunt. Often, this weapon has a caliber that is not for other uses, or is not military police. I thank my colleague Obradovic for saying about the amendments. Unfortunately, listening to today's debate will make citizens realize that the amendments of the Democratic Party are not good, and in fact the largest part of the 12 proposed by the Committee is the part that we gave as a modification. The amendment 4 does not make it clear to me, it explains that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that functional modern copies of old weapons are weapons by their characteristics, if we mean saber, but that copy can be plastic. If we're thinking about some cube, it's also plastic. I don't understand how a plastic copy can be functional by its characteristics. This had to be done a little more precisely, because it would be very complex, first of all for the police on the ground, which should work. If he stops someone's car, he finds two plastic cubes, for example, that the kids left in the back seat, what happens, what sanctions do a parent who drives such a car or finds swords, and I believe that all children in Serbia have swords, if not others, those wars of stars that are extremely dangerous in the movie? So they're copies. How do you think a cop sanctions it or gives the right cop another chance to assess himself? As soon as you give the right to judge anyone yourself, you are practically giving opportunity and corruption, and I think that this should be disabled by this law and reduced to the least possible level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22462	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22463	Let me look back on this first part for a little while. What's always been thinking? The man carrying the hunting rifle will be visible. If he's wearing it in accordance with the law, he'll wear it in a particular suitcase or a specially designed bag that makes it impossible for the current fact, and the gun can be worn undercover, and that's the fundamental difference why we decided to separate these two when it allows wearing. The Hunting Act itself predicted that a hunter couldn't carry a short weapon. So even hunters in their Hunting Law predicted that a hunter would only carry long arms. So we wouldn't be above that, we're also guided by it, and again about the possibility of abuses that are much greater with weapons that are easier to handle, we've decided on this. As for this second part, as far as your amendment is concerned, we've laid down two categories by law. So, the imitations that exist, the imitations of weapons that can be completely legally purchased, so these are plastic sabers, plastic guns, anything like that, and functional copies that can be used as weapons, or they can be converted, so they have that part of a converting weapon. Here it says - weapons imitations are objects that are similar to or equal to weapons, but cannot be used and converted into firearms. A man who wears that kind of weapon, whether it's a toy or anything, can't answer that in any way. It's not about the self-will of the state authority or the arbitration assessment, it's about a legally arranged solution. So I think that's the only way we couldn't accept this. As for the amendments, I think we had a good debate in principle and I tried to accept as many amendments as possible, and indeed all the parliamentary groups, including yours, participated in this, and I think it's the quality of this new law, because we've improved many things, some shortcomings have been removed, even after a long public debate. I thank all the MPs. I once was a National MP, and I know how responsible this is, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22464	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22465	Mr. Minister, I have no dilemma that you have good intentions and do not have a dilemma that we have good intentions. If I may, Cuba is a firearm. If you've seen a movie or read a book, the cube after the first fire is used as a cannon because there's that spike on the handle down there and it's used to fight, as you might say. So, if she's now incapacitated to work as a firearm, are you treating her like a weapon still or not? She's just as dangerous as a sword. How are we going to work with people who are sportingally training swords and carrying swords that are really weapons, carrying them in the trunk and stopping them from being a cop? They have permission to do that? They don't. They're full of weapons that are defined, which may be copies. I think this thing had to be done more precisely not because, I say again, you have a bad intention, but I'm saying that this cop on the street is allowed to have a very clear picture of him and to assume what it is that he can take away. And the question is, since I know it's happening, let's say that the traffic police are taking away baseball bats or, say, those decomposed pins, under what law does the police take away a baseball bat that's in a car or a pendrek that can be opened? How does the police take that away? It's also not clearly defined by the law, whether a man went as he did with a gun, so he went with a baseball bat to play somewhere, which is a very small probability, and that with a gun he went to a crime, the probability is very small confirmation that he was going hunting. This is a little more complex than it looks. I understand your intensities. I wanted to help, but I'm afraid you'll find a situation where a cop on the street doesn't know what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22466	Minister, let me give one more word to the opposition MP, Blago Bradic, so that you may answer. There might be something else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22467	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to support the amendment of my fellow Sutanovac. I think you have good intentions, too. You have a good explanation, but there's a little problem. This should be interpreted on the ground and not all of them have a seventh degree and should be given clear instructions by law to apply it so that it would not be possible to interpret it in one way or another and lead to unpleasant situations, to argue whether someone has brought such a weapon or a toy and whether it is a militiaman who has legitimateized it and who has encountered such an object can interpret it whether it is a trophy, whether it is a toy or not. Another suggestion. I'm very sorry that I got late suggestions from a lawyer. Amendments have been submitted, but concerns Article 4 to category D, and as regards Article 5(4). Category D says – cold weapons, gas sprays and electroshocks, etc. And Article 5 says – the weapons of category D can be obtained and kept without ID and applications to the competent authority in accordance with this law. One suggestion. You'll probably be able to do it in the next period to correct some amendments or amendments to the law. Gross criminal acts, especially in the young population, occur with a knife and need to limit this cold weapon so it can have a blade length or the appearance of a blade. In Nis you have the last case when the guy was stabbed and the maltene has a one-sided paraplegia. So you need cold weapons other than illegal firearms, illegals that are sanctioned, to sanction what someone needs a ten-centimeter blade to go into town. You should consider that your expert team pays attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22468	Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22469	There's a lot of confusion, especially when we think about this topic, a lot of things get tangled up. For example, people who have just said a previous speaker, let's say, boys and girls who are engaged in torture, who can take it to practice. They according to the law of that category D weapon, let's say cold weapons that can be purchased and held without ID and registration to the competent authority, they do so in accordance with the law, as well as a hunting rifle, hunters have a hunting card, they have a membership card of a sports organisation, they can transport, carry to where they carry their sports activities and will be no problem. As for those who, for example, are engaged in some butcher's activity or similar activity, which requires that they carry some kind of tool with them, they won't be able to just do it with a blade that's short. They need knives of different kinds. In each kitchen, you have in supermarket lenses that are longer than that and are bought for different meat processing. We'd get a little into a big problem, because then the police would have to go into a detailed interrogation of everyone -- sorry, what are you doing with that? But I agree with you, and we've noticed that there are things that have been done with cold weapons, mostly knives. I always wonder why someone's going to get caught in the city. What's he doing with a knife? Why would he need a knife on his way out, in a cafe, blades of that kind? By the end of the year, we have provided for more seminars and training for members of the police, where we will elaborate in detail, which is why it is a good thing that this law will have a delayed fact of the year, so that people working in the police and the prosecution can get acquainted with all the details, make good preparations and how the law will be implemented. Because, as you know, the law without good implementation isn't always good. We will try to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22470	According to the amendment, the word is Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22471	Yeah, just two sentences. We're absolutely thinking the same thing. What I got as a suggestion from a lawyer is absolutely sanctioned. Because, for example, you have routine control of the gendarmes, special units or intervention units at mass gathering sites after 10, 11,12 hours and if you find such an object, a blade longer than 10 centimeters, it's taken away, but it's very difficult to sanction it as carrying a cold weapon that's life-threatening. They probably thought it was supposed to be sanctioned, and the fact that someone has a knife in the tool during the day or blanks the wires, it's perfectly understandable and it's not subject to that control. But in specific situations, what will young people do when they enter the city of blades? I mean, none of them work after ten o'clock in the evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22472	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Miladanovic, Milisav Petronijevic and Sinisa Maksimovic. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry of the Interior, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, I would like to say three things here regarding our amendment to Article 5. A bill that, just to point out first and foremost to the MPs of the Progressive Party, has been accepted, gentlemen. This is the 29th amendment of the New Party MPs who have been accepted in this assembly, and I believe that three things are important in this case. First of all, it seems to me, gentlemen, that the acceptance of this 29th amendment is a sign that one rule learning process, primarily academic literacy, since our amendment read that, at the end of Article 5, Article 5, instead of the point of the comma, should be a sign of the interpretation of the point, gentlemen. The second thing, it all gives me hope that in addition to this process of learning academic rules, rules of literacy, etc. A little by little to come up with the learning or learning of the principle of academic honesty, gentlemen, which is also mutually conditional and interlinked, respected Members of the People's Parliament. The third thing, every amendment that we propose, which is adopted, I consider to be a small victory here. I am particularly pleased when I see in Voting Day that MPs of the Progressive Party are voting in favour of the bill, for example, and for this point in this bill, gentlemen. Little by little, victory by victory, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will change the bad rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22474	Just to warn you of something, honourable MP Dr Pavicevic, the Serbian Progressive Party. You've said the wrong name twice, and I believe that's said, if twice, on purpose. So, stand up straight, please. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Can I explain? ) Just stand up to the microphone – the Serbian Progressive Party, so there are no confusions and insults for MPs belonging to the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group. We don't have this other party in parliament. Here you go, but just a few seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22475	If it'll take one minute, Your Honor, I don't want two.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22476	No, we didn't get along. Sit down, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22477	No, I want to do what you suggested and explain why I accept that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22478	No, you'll do that later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22479	Can we do it now? Here, and I get the right to a replica, when the minister gets twice...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22480	When there's a basis for replication. I'll give my word first to Zoran Babic, who answered by amendment or by replica? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. () Replica, then Minister then, and then you'll have a basis probably, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22481	If someone says that the acceptance of amendments by the legislator of the law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a victory for the amendments' promoters, it absolutely does not understand what democracy or parliamentary life means, it has absolutely strayed into this National Assembly Hall. I am sorry that the wonderful words, the sincere words of my colleague, Maria Obradovic, have only managed to pollute the hand, the communication, the desire to get to the best possible legal solutions, not because of the victory of the bill or the amendment promoter, but because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who sent us here to adopt these laws, to communicate and to reach the final and best solutions. Speaking of education, the best education we see in this session of the National Assembly is education that someone who knew how to write only amendments: "Article 1 is deleted", "Article 2 is deleted", "Article 3 is deleted", here, evolved, here, has progressed precisely because of criticism of the Serbian Progressive Party and my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so he also tried to make some meaningful amendments. We'll always talk about meaningful amendments. About the senseless, the amendments of pure political hatred led, of course we won't talk. I do not understand that wish, except for the desire to introduce ourselves to the controversy, that special attention is given to and the accent to pay particular attention to the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party. Well, look how many of us are here. Look at how many of us are gonna be here all day. We will also be at a vote, unlike the amendment promoters, who will not vote on their amendments, because they will have more time, they will have more to do, they will do other things, probably in the cafes of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22482	It's replica time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22483	Stay here, vote, communicate, and victory is only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22484	The word has Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry of the Interior, respected National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, two things I now wish to say in the replica to Mr Zoran Babic, and to you, too, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic. You just commented on a part of my performance, demanding that I now call Serbian Progressive Party MPs the Serbian Progressive Party. But if I understand some of the rules of our language correctly, sometimes we use abbreviations. I don't have to say it every time I want to – I will, I will – I will, I can say it – I will. Like when someone wants to, for example. to believe that the word as the People's MP of the New Party, since the full name of the New Party is the New Party, and the short name is, gentlemen of the Parliament, Nova, so if the President of the Assembly said - the word has a National MP, Nova Vladimir Pavicevic, it would not bother me, the Honored President of the National Assembly. So I expect that Serbian Progressive Party MPs do not mind when I use the short coin Progressive Party, because it is clear that we do not have any other party in this Assembly that is called the Serbian Progressive Party, respected National Assembly presidents. Now another thing to Mr. Babic. I am absolutely opposed to the qualifications of Members of the People's Parliament as pointless. Mr. Babic just said that when, for example, Mr. Zivkovic or I submit the amendment "is deleted" that it is all meaningless, meaningless, etc. He forgets, Mr Babic, that the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs Tabakovic, adopted our two amendments "is deleted". Does this, Mr. Babic, mean that Mrs. Tabakovic is involved in pointless, groundless work, gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22486	Thank you. So, you agree that I'm calling you from a "party" only? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Nova. No, I can't, you said it could be cut short. You'll understand which party you're from. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: But it is different. I'm not saying – parties, I say – Progressive parties. All right, but I've got to cut something short for you from Nova, and then New turns out to be a party. I agree, then we'll talk in abbreviations. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22487	Dear President, dear colleagues, I'm glad, little by little, we've been able to define some things. I'm glad we figured out who the advanced MPs are in this House, and I'm very glad. I'm glad I belong to that party. What's good is that, regardless of when a typing error sometimes occurs, there is always, and in parliament before the adoption law is passed, a detailed legal-technical editorial, but of course it's good and when MPs see it. On this occasion I certainly thank you for all your contributions, whatever they may be, to any of the members of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22488	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22489	It would be bad if respected fellow doctors thought this was an office, as is bad when a respected fellow doctor, the doctor thought that the National Assembly was a classroom, and the speaker of the department to teach us. What if Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic thought this was all what he was working on in his career, all those roads, bridges and all that he did? I would like to inform the amendments that this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that there are no students and teachers, nor teachers, nor teachers, and that we are here before the law, in front of the Rules of Procedure absolutely all equal. As for these wings and these abbreviations, I cannot refer to my colleagues here as "new", because they are not new. How can a colleague of Zivkovic be new? Well, it's not new. He led the ministries in some difficult moments and was very bad at leading a government that was disastrously lost. Everything he's done, he's done very badly. I know he'd want to be new, but he's not new. Zoran Zivkovic is not new. Is the other amendment promoter new? Well, it's not. Those LDPs, those white ballots, I want you to go to the election, and I'm not going to the election, so it can't be new. On the third hand, there is, for example, a television that is in a cable network called Nova. You know, there's a lot of money in there, people work professionally. What would that mean if both that name and that brand had been invested in, that someone would just come and say, well, I'm new. It can't be like that. Full name and last name, full name of the party, as defined and established. As far as victory is concerned, I thank you for the suggestions of colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22490	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22491	You know, if someone wants to win, they have to go to the elections on their own, they have to run on their own, they have to make their own policy and their programme and get the trust of the Serbian citizens, as SNS did, named Alexander Vukic-Future as we believe in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22492	Thank you. The word has Dr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry of the Interior, respected presidents of the National Assembly, three things I now wish to say in the replica to Mr Babic, but also to you as president of the National Assembly. As you introduce the practice to Mr Babic and Minister Stefanovic, for example. Today, if you could extend the duration of your speech, I ask you to grant me today our amendment debate on these drafts of the law at least two additional minutes for the amendment debate, Honored President Gojkovic, so that we can all be equal here, to which we are constantly reminded by the letter of our Constitution of our Republic, gentlemen. The second thing, I now think is more clear to me why Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, who, despite not being there, Mr. Babic had just spoken to, why he got this punishment away from the session at the 11th session of the Second Regular Session. It seems it is easier for SNS MPs to criticise Mr. Zivkovic when he is not here but when he is here, gentlemen. I inform you that at the beginning of the next session of the Third Regular Session Mr. Zivkovic takes his place here and that everything you have to say to Mr. Zivkovic, tell him when he appears in the Great Hall of the National Assembly, not in his absence, gentlemen. The third thing, I am very pleased to see that the New Party in politics in our Republic is already recognised through this term of one of the two that stand in the name of our party, which is the term "new" policy, respected Members of the People's Parliament and respected guests from the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22494	Let me just answer that. According to Article 158, Section 8, I've already given you those two minutes. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You are not. I did. Take the record, the stenogram, and see that I've given you twice to talk on one amendment, even though it says here that I can give you one to five minutes on all amendments. So I've already done that to you. So there's no regrets. It's just that you don't notice when it comes to you, it's a little bit of a problem. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22495	This is another piece of evidence of dispersion in the New Party. I thought Mr. Zivkovic was away, but there's Mr. Pavicevic, so Mr. Pavicevic will tell him what I'm saying here. But they don't talk, people. It's a new party, so it's already a split-up. New – new or new – old, you have to make a deal. But this is proof of total dissension in the New Party's new policy. Because as soon as Mr. Pavicevic has no capacity to pass on to Mr. Zivkovic what is said here, and I believe he is watching, watching, listening to all this, it is a serious problem and a serious signal, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia, a total divide in the New Party. You better hope for a new new party. The president and vice president of the New Party are not speaking. As for the reasons for removing and for the distance measures from the session, they are very clear. Not because of the lack of courage, because we show courage by applying the policy we are leading and what we have promised the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the reason for the distance from the National Assembly session was to use the words "stoko one" according to the chairman, according to all fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, according to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not any lack of courage. That is why I called on Mr Zivkovic to participate in a task force that will define which terms are appropriate and which are not suitable for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22496	Replication time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22497	I'd like to hear if Mr. Zivkovic, as a member of this task force, would be pleased to say that according to this expression that he gladly used and gladly worshiped us here, would he put it as appropriate or inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22498	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. I respect the suggestion of an MP named Shutanovec to wait a long time and ask how long you will replicate to each other and I give him my word. Thank you. You'll be in the task force talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22499	Thank you. I just called to try to prevent this pointless debate that you started. So if anyone here says from the Progressive Party or the Democratic Party, no one thinks anything bad, but to say that the New Party is not new, and that you are the Progressive Party, until yesterday you were a radical, you are now an advancer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22500	You're the one who picked up the amendment. I have to take your time now because you're wasting on, as you said, pointless things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22501	Take my time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22502	I'm taking it from you. I'll let you say whatever you want, but that's the time you've now taken as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22503	Now you've taken 30 seconds from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22504	I'll give you 30 seconds back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22505	Please return to see the citizens of Serbia, so you will take it away from me as well as Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22507	So, I think we've had an extremely high-quality debate here, and I'm very proud of that, but now we're listening to things that you've initiated. My colleague Babic says we'll have some code of conduct, and every time he calls, we'll talk – you cattle. Well, if it's forbidden, it's forbidden to him, too, it's forbidden to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22508	He quotes, I have to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22509	So we'll be able to quote. I took off my shoe and threw you a quote of what was done when you were in a radical party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22510	You'd have to say I quote an MP of that and that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22511	I quote an MP, your ex-coworker, I take off my shoes and I shoot and I say, "Let me show you how it was."
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22512	Sure, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22513	No, I know you can, you'll do it for sure, but I'm not doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22514	I'll tolerate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22515	Here, now you're breaking up with me, and nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say you can break down.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22516	No, because you don't want to talk about the amendment, I have to intervene somehow.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22517	Give me one segment in which Mr. Babic was talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22518	Yes, they've replicated.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22519	If he knows what the amendment is now as a point, I'll apologize to him. If he knows, but don't read.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22520	Don't apologize to him, I'm running a session. You're cute. I run the session, but the replicas were at stake. A little attention. No one mentioned you and I can't meet you to give you a replica. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22521	So now you've been taking me for how long?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22522	I'll give you back all the time in this world.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22523	Please one thing, since I have an amendment that I think is even accepted in one section where it is written – it is deleted, to draw attention to the MPs that there are no meaningless amendments. We've all come here to try to fix the laws, if a member is deleted, then he's ineffective. So that's where you need to intervene, not put someone in a subordinate position because he's given an amendment that he thinks is quality, and then there's a scene where that amendment is "expunged" is unsatisfactory, illogical, etc., and it's one thing that's being made, here, an atmosphere where someone who's well-intentioned, there's a good amendment that turns out not to understand what's going on, and that's your fault, it's not Mr. Babic's fault, it's you. You allow them a lot more, and you measure us in a second. In a second. Do you have any idea that by any chance I'm in charge here?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22524	I don't, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22525	Well, I'd give you all the time in the world, you understand, as an opposition. I wouldn't have any problem. I'm really telling you. I'm asking you to go back to the amendment debate, and the SNS gentlemen who were SRS by yesterday, tomorrow might be some new party, don't call another party. So, the New Party exists as a party, whether it's Nova or not, it's not your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22526	You haven't said anything about the amendment, and you keep warning me of my turn. That's pretty sweet to me because sometimes something is accomplished by force.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22527	I did, I said. That's nice to meet you. Let me tell you, I've been distracted by the fact that you have sympathy for me and I'm glad, but I've been talking about the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22528	It's nothing to the amendment, because I didn't understand as an ordinary citizen of this country what the weapons of category A are and who can get them and don't get them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22529	I gave the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22530	You did talk about some parties, who dares, who can't. An ordinary citizen who was supposed to apply this law didn't understand at all...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22531	Now you're taking my time and you're still taking up the time that you'll be counting on me as the time of the parliamentary group. So the microphone is on, I'm not talking, and you're doing it, and then you'll say, "Time's up." Don't laugh. That's classic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22532	Well, not because you're infinitely likable to me today, otherwise you're a little bit like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22533	Well, I'm always nice to you. It's not a question. I'm sorry no one in the SNS is nice to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22534	And I'll give you back your time. Here's the whole minute you'll have an extra one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22535	Thank you, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22536	On this try today, because it's worth the effort. I have to ask MPs Maria Obradovic, I mean, for more than 30 minutes she's waiting with full respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22537	And time goes on with me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22538	I'll pay you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22539	Here, now it's a minute and a half, so I don't say two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22540	I'm asking you MPs just to start SNS time. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22541	Here's the fifth minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22542	To finish Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22543	What to finish, turn off the microphone, ma'am, it's time for me, then you'll tell me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22544	Believe it or not, you're no longer in my system and I don't know how your microphone isn't turned off.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22545	You're not in my system either, but it's not a question. Please don't. You know perfectly how to turn off the microphone. So at every debate, Becic lifts my ability to speak. Call Mr. Becic, he'll teach you if you don't know, but I don't want to get involved, I don't touch anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22546	Can the technique see what's going on with the microphone of the Messenger Shooter, so let's get us to work, please. I don't have an MP from the Sutanovac in my system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22547	Press the left button, ma'am. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22548	Marija Obradovic is up and wants to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22549	It's okay now. I would like to report a violation of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, indeed, the dignity of the Assembly has been extremely questioned by such behaviour in the past 35 minutes. I've repeatedly reported in five to six times, so I've checked out, not wanting to extend this debate, and I'm reporting again, because I want to appeal to go back to the law's content to its effects. Before that, I'm just gonna ask for one thing. With all due respect to colleagues from the SNS who were once in the SRS, I will ask all colleagues who identify the Radical and Serbian Progressive Party, not to do so anymore. I've never been to that party. I respect the party and don't say we were radicals until yesterday. I never did. There are a number of members who have never been. So you're telling the truth. The Parliament's dignity has been hurt by your untrue expression, by you pleading on members of parliament. There's no reason to do that, and since we're such a big party that has almost half a million members, of course there are people who think in different ways, but we're all going one way, but of course we have different nuances in our political functioning. When it comes to fellow Pavicevic, although this gives him the opportunity to replicate, I am aware of this, I appeal once again, not even a personal address is allowed, to return the content of the debate. I highly appreciate your academic activity. I don't think you as a professor would ever allow a student to talk about one point for 35 minutes, but you would always return him to different questions on the content of the questions and then you would see if he wasn't fit to answer, you would end that agony. We're not able to do it this time, because you're abusers of this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22550	Thank you. And, uh, damage to the Rules of Procedure and replicas and everything you've shown goes in in two minutes. I must warn you, article 107 is not hurt by anything, you have now addressed directly to the MPs what they have done before and, with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, replicated and by Rule 112, I set a short break to continue to do, because this really has nothing to do with the bill and amendments anymore. We've gone too far, we've come from the New Party, whether to throw Nova out, to go to the party, whether it's the Progressive Party, has nothing to do with the amendments at all, and you're all calling on each other to get back to the law, get up and say something else, all together. I agree with you as an MP that I'm not strict enough and I'm not using the Rules of Procedure properly. A brief break, just enough to determine your intention to talk about the law or to talk about political life and the register of political parties, whatever. [[After a break.]] The 6th amendment was submitted by the people sent by Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22552	As far as Article 6 is concerned, as I understand it, it should be adopted as regards the work to erase the word “supple grain”, because as such generally “supple grains” are made and are in fact typical of hunting ammunition as well as of many types of sports ammunition, so that I find it illogical to throw them out of the law and ban them from this member. I hope the minister will also consider the above part of our amendment, the difference and definition of the telescopic scope of the target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22553	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22554	We discussed it in principle and I agreed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22555	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Sušec. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. I'm asking the Minister to plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22556	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22557	I find the minister has accepted this amendment. Anybody else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Stefana Miladanovic, Gordana Topic and Sinisa Maksimovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22558	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, just an explanation of what this is all about. Article 9 is contained in the chapter, in the part of the law that deals with supervision and we have tried to explain Article 9, more precisely, so nothing is fundamentally changed. Article 9 reads: The supervision of the application of this law is carried out by the ministry responsible for internal affairs, in the further text of the ministry. In carrying out surveillance, the Ministry's officials are authorised to review the general acts and accounts, the records of the weapons holding premises, as well as the weapons itself, to request notifications, to impose measures to apply the rules, to conduct the administrative procedure, to file criminal and criminal charges and to take all actions resulting from this procedure. We have explained this second position a little bit and said that the words "in accordance with the law" are added after the points, because we think that the proposal is undefined and that it opens up the possibility of taking some of the actions that are not prescribed by material and procedural laws, and for this reason we have suggested, the government has accepted this, so that this member is now more precise and clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22559	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Vladimir Stanojevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vanja Lukic, Milisav Petronijevic, Stefana Miladanovic and Neđo Jovanovic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Djiric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22560	I just want this article to be precise, that the amendment is good, but unfortunately there's a problem in the record. The amendment concerns the possibility of a person obtaining and holding a weapon and is said in Article 11(5) of Law. – persons who have not been fined in the last four years for violations in the field of public order and peace, etc. Our amendment was to be persons who haven't been sanctioned in the last ten years. You told me in the debate that you couldn't do it for technical reasons because there's no record anymore, but I think... (Nebojsa Stefanovic, from the scene: Criminal Law provides for four years. ) But I think that since this Law of Infringement also adopts this Assembly, we can launch an initiative to amend that law and that finally those thugs who acted inappropriately, not in accordance with the law, can't for a minimum of 10 years come into possession of the arms of a legal one, because once they're violent, they're hard to resuscitate in such a way that they're no longer a threat to society or family. This includes domestic violence, violent behavior and street behavior, etc., and I think we could take this as an initiative to amend the Law of Infractions, by making me if we say ten years here today, if you accept it, we have one time space to change this Law of Infractions quickly and to be really ten years. I'm warning you, it's about people who have been convicted, people who aren't according to us, by the DS, who should come in touch with guns at all after that, but let's say that for ten years it's time to check their behavior, because we think four years is extremely little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22561	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22562	In principle, I don't mind changing both of us in the future in terms of extending the deadline. What's the problem, though? Since we have the fact law on violations then, it provides for the removal of records after four years, so that there is absolute limitations and we, let's say, the question is, can we extend that period to ten years just because we're going to do it in fact with crimes, but I just want to tell you one more thing. Regardless of the police will not have records after four years, we will be able to determine by operational work because there are not so many requirements for holding and carrying weapons, we will be able to determine by operating work whether there are safety threats or what the conduct of that person was, so if it is someone who is prone to domestic violence or something like that, it will certainly not be positive, but in principle I agree that the Law on Infringements should be considered and then see what we can strengthen in terms of criminal provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22563	According to the amendment, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22564	I've been trying Mr. Minister all along to avoid the possibility of individual checks. As someone who was a security officer, I have witnessed that there have been many times that these checks were not consistent with the real facts. It's often that one who does the checking thinks something's standing, so when it's seriously examined, it doesn't stand. Unfortunately, the checks don't work, as far as I know, the inspectors, they do cops on the ground, and this is the thing that, our idea was to make it impossible for anyone to give free assurance whether or not someone did. For what? I would have understood, and that's what I was trying to do at the Department of Defense, that it's not only the one who gets the grade, it's the one who gives. So, when someone does a background check and says it's a person safe, conditionally said, I mean, in the sense that it's not a rule of problems, and that person makes a problem after that, then that cop who gave that security assessment should also fit. If it was the BIA, if it was the police, then we'd share those permits differently. So I think there's a lot of room for manipulation that I've tried to avoid with this bill and bring all of them in as much inability as possible to bring a personal court, but to define it precisely. I'm telling you this from experience, and you'll have a chance, I guess, to see for yourself when, say, some kids go to the police academy, so they get security checks negative because, I don't know, there's a cousin who deals with crime or his father, God forbid, drinks and stuff like that, or he's a gambling brother. These people get negative checks, and, let's say, they're model citizens, and someone else gets positive, and they've already been convicted by the works that, let's say, are very difficult.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22565	The word has Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22566	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I agree that this proposal should be considered and it should be brought to light with other laws, but while we are already on the subject of change and other laws, I would also like to amend the Law on the Communist Police, so that Article 21, which predicts that a municipal police officer may be sentenced to jail for up to six months. There is no minor danger of being convicted of domestic violence or of minor crimes for which he has been convicted and served his sentence for up to six months, and now he's a communal officer. It was predicted by the parliamentary group and voted in favour of it by the MP group of Mr Sutanovac. Let's change the law on bankruptcy managers. The bankruptcy managers don't carry guns, they don't carry any weapons, but they have a lot of property, and that's why the bankruptcy manager is scheduled to be sentenced to jail for up to six months. I agree that this is a proposal that needs to be considered, but there are many anomalies in which Mr. Sutanovac's parliamentary group participated, which in the past allowed some things that I did, where I rebelled and in 2009, 2010 when they were brought into this National Assembly and only that there is some continuity. I think that both a municipal police officer and a bankruptcy manager, but also someone carrying weapons must really be clean under the law, maybe four or ten, or I don't know how many years, but that deadline will allow Serbian citizens to be safe. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22567	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22568	Just one sentence to tell Mr. Babic. So at least what I can tell you from my portfolio means about the domain of internal affairs. I call upon all MPs, do not wait for the ministry to propose laws. You here have a more frequent opportunity to debate them and maybe see some things that have changed or changed over time, so they no longer correspond to the actual state, not to repeat some past mistakes that are now burdened by certain laws, and then because of these roof laws, we cannot change some other laws, or it would cause some kind of disagreement in our system. I invite you to help us, at least I can speak for the MUP, all the laws I'm in charge of, invite you to come talk, anything we need to change, if we need to have sessions every month where we're going to fix things. It's a lot better than having poorly arranged matter and then laying our shoulders because we haven't been able to fix it. So it's up to you. I'm asking you to help in that sense. I will try as a minister, of course, to remove everything I see, but since there are many more people here and much more experience in the legislative matter, I would ask you to help us in this, and we will also try through this new Law on Anti-Gradic Protection and the new Traffic Safety Act, which will soon be in front of the National Assembly, and of course the Law on the Police, to fix many things. It's always a living thing, life goes, and we always have to change it. So I invite you to have one more intense activity in fixing things, if I may say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22569	Mr. Sutanovac, you can do it by amendment I don't see the basis of the replica. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I was looking for a replica.]] Mr Babic spoke of the need to amend other laws that are contrary to each other regarding these crimes. So, please, you can do what you want through the use of the right to talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22570	Mr. Arsenovicu, I was mentioned by name and last name and was mentioned by DS. I am now authorized on behalf of the DS to represent the interests of that part of the citizens who voted for the DS. By all accounts, I have the right to a replica. The chairman just took five, six minutes from me. If you take me a few minutes now, the citizens of Serbia will remain deprived of our opinion. I'm looking for a replica that follows me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22571	Mr. Sutanovac, please, mentioning your name and party is not enough reason to get a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22572	It has been said that we are responsible for the bad law being passed here, against which counterpart Babic, as representative of the Serbian Radical Party, was against in 2008 and 2009. So, I'm asking you to give me a word based on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22573	I have the right not to give you a replica. You can talk, if you want, about the amendment. If you wish, please reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22574	I've been trying to talk to you today about the laws that are on the agenda, but I have to realize that my colleague Babic has been telling the same story for three years. So we've been listening here for three years about how some law was passed in 2008 or 2009, and we're in 2015. Why didn't you change it? What were you waiting for? Why don't you change the laws you think are bad? Because you use it for day-to-day politics and nothing else. The Community Police Act definitely needs to be changed. I believe that certain rights given to municipal police officers, given their conduct, must also be abolished. And it's not just a question of whether or not it could be a communal police officer... someone who's been convicted. I think they have a lot of reasons for these laws to change, because we're witnessing that communal cops behave more boastfully than the most arrogant citizen, but that's not the topic of the agenda. The topic of the agenda is to arrange something that is important at the moment and that Mr. Stefanovic as minister agrees. So let's see how we can go on and disable it. Our position is that it should be as long as possible. I say again, there's an individual view of that cop doing a security check. That look doesn't always have to be right and it's something that can, first of all, cause you problems. Mr. Babic, this is where we all voted for the omubdsman together. So you voted him personally, like all SNS deputies, and then you said he was a Democrats, so it's our fault that you chose him, so you won't respect his work. If you think that's how you can talk here, so run the initiative, change all the laws, change both the Manchester and the Commissioner and the D.A.'s office. You can do anything, because you today have a power that no one in Serbia has ever had. The fact that it's a bad government that's getting worse and worse, it's already another topic that we're going to talk about on another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22575	The word is Mr. Babic, by amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22576	I'll try to speak on the amendment as my previous colleague used to say without saying anything about the amendment. Simeon was elected and this assembly majority chose him and I voted for Mr. Sasa Jankovic and I do not regret it. But, when we are anyone, not a single report from the Citizens' Protectors who came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by 2012, by the time the 2012 change was made, it was not debated here in the National Assembly. Do you know why it wasn't debated in the National Assembly? I would like to inform fellow MPs who did not attend the Committee on Security Control, when Mr. Sasa Jankovic said in a long term half of what Mr. Sutanovac told him in 2008 and 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22577	Please, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22578	Mr. Chairman, I will speak of the amendment as you have allowed Mr. Sutanovac. Allow me this sentence, I insist. Mr. Sutanovac then said, quote: “Well, do you think you are the true Protector of citizens? Well, we chose you. “ What is the blackmail of independent regulatory bodies? What kind of blackmail is that? What misunderstanding is it when you do not adopt reports in the National Assembly, when these reports do not experience light days because they do not respond to you, when you tell the Guardian, well, do you think you are a true Frankfurt, so we chose you? So, what's the blackmail from Mr. Shutanovec? Well, only on blackmail knew they were ruling and knew they were making. I beg you, and I will return to the subject. I would remind a professional with an 11, 12-year-old student internship, that the microphone is on, but it turns off a button that's 10 centimeters away from us. As for these arrogant of the most arrogant municipal police officers, I'm asking you, Mr. Chairman, and I'm asking the amendment's promoters, and who's received those bahatats from the most arrogant municipal police officers? Did the current mayor, Mr. Sinisha Mali, receive them or did former DS President Mr. Dragan Gilas receive them as mayor of Belgrade? Which one of these people did we hire new people? Who did we receive? No one. We inherited what you were doing, Mr. Sutanovac. Speaking of these lacks of idea of time and some events, I can also ask Mr. Sutanovac - and from which DS is he, Borkov, Bojanov, Balshina, Kenov, whose DS? Why does anyone in this room mind Serbian prefix? Why does someone want from the name of the Serbian Progressive Party to remove Serbian? We are proud to be the Serbian Progressive Party and we will remain that until the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22579	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22580	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Department of Defense, you're witnessing that when it comes to positions, when they have no arguments, they start attacking even about things that have been said in a funny way. The fact is that Simeon said what he said, but he also said that we did the job, that the job was done in accordance with the law and he also made the most terrible accusations at the expense of the defence ministry, the defence minister Mr. Gasic and the director of the VBA, that the service was first documented in Serbia's modern history by members of the opposition party, in this case the SRS. That's the essence of what you're trying to show on that Secret Service Control Committee. This power may not have been employed by municipal police officers in Belgrade, but this authority has been appointed by the head of the municipal police, a man who dictates the pace of work. It is he who gives communals, or police suggestions, how to behave. That's the policy you're conducting. It's not that cop's policy on the street, and since the law is bad, we agreed, that law can change. The Serbian Progressive Party has had all the power here for the third year. There's no law or man you can't change here. Don't talk about past times anymore, because today is much worse than when the DS was in power. The citizens of Belgrade will remember the mayors of DS and Zoran Djindjic and Nenad Bogdanovic and Dragan Gilas, and Sinisa Mali will remain only small and nothing more, Mr Babić, because the results of the work are so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22581	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22582	So he was talking four and a half minutes ago, four and a half minutes full, and you're taking our word in five seconds in five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22583	Mr. Sutanovac, let's be correct. I didn't give Grandma a line. I've given you a replica now. He talked about the amendments, but he didn't... You saw for yourself that I warned him several times. (Dear Shutanite, from the place, you warned Him, and you took away my word. You've run out of time. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not taking your word for it. The word has a folk MP, Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22584	Well, let me try and get back to the law, to the important matter that governs our proposal today. Of course, I am aware that it is part of parliamentary life and congregation debates are sometimes a little torn away and MPs have the right to interpret certain views in their own way. Some will remember whether Belgrade's deficit was 20% in the previous five, six years, so Belgraders were terribly in charge. Today is less than 10%, which I find incomparable is better, but what anyone will remember will be seen by the results of the work. I would like us to come out of today's session by adopting one part of the amendment, and if you decide today to be a voting day, that we already send a good message to the citizens of Serbia today, which is that we have adopted two good laws and in fact, the process of making and sublegal acts will begin and as soon as we get them to fully apply. I hope we can do it in the next few hours. I don't suppose I can say anything here. Every MP has the right to say whatever he wants, just so you don't understand it in that sense, it's only my request, for the sake of the citizens and for the importance of these laws, that the more we devote ourselves to working on these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22585	Mr. Granny, on what grounds do you want the word? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. I think it's time to finish the replicas. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place, "Give me your word, and I'll finish." Please, you've caused a replica of the Shutanovite. (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. Yes, it is. I'm asking you to give up your replica, because what's going on doesn't lead to anything. We're just going to fight here past the agenda right now. At the end of the line, I'll give it to you, and we'll see. One minute, I'm gonna end it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22586	Did you give me your word based on a replica or on a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22587	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When Mr. Sutanovac called for command responsibility and when one of the communal police officers did something that neither they nor the city were proud of, and as the responsible chief of the municipal police, I would wonder – and why was then the defence minister, which was Mr. Sutanovac at the time, failed to resign when there was a major accident in the "First Partisan" from Uzica? By the same principle, in the same way, no, when it's his responsibility, then he'll answer lower, and when the political insinuates, then we'll take command responsibility. I know this is where Mr. Sutanovac would like to be some collective amnesia, to forget what he worshiped both the chairman and all of us. Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I apologize for not speaking with a peace accent. I speak with the accent of Šumadia, Vrnjakke Banja, Lipov where I was born. Here are colleagues from both Vranj and Leskovec and someone who will not speak with such a clean Belgrade, peaceful accent. I didn't grow up in Mirev. I know that someone who has no arguments will reach very easily for insulting fellow Members of the people, to insult the insolent. What does it mean that the word and you don't react, Mr. Chairman, that Sinisha Mali will remain small? Well, of course, he won't marry and change his last name. That's his last name. But someone can have two meters and two and a half meters, but they'll stay a little man their whole life. I know that someone wants to get over the Nautilus theme very easily. I know someone's gonna say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes, he said, Mr. Sutanovac's blackmail -- do you think you're the real Protector of the Citizens, we chose you?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22589	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22590	On the other hand, this congregation majority and this government are 94% of all irregularities and everything the Citizens' Protector pointed out, unlike Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22591	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22592	Mr. Chairman, I'm picking up on the line, not to "grave" because it's not a Serbian or Belgrade sleng issue, it's grammatically incorrect. By the way, I didn't grow up in Miriev, you were misinformed. I grew up in the woods, so if you're interested, I went to elementary school in the woods, so there's no problem showing it all around Belgrade whenever you want. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: You live in the Woods now? I don't live in the woods now. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: in the pasture? And that's where I'm gonna take you. If you're interested in pasture, it's not a problem, so is that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22593	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22594	So, Mr. Chairman, here it is said that I should have resigned when the workers of the First Partisan died in an accident, a tragic case being prosecuted, and that is one of the most difficult moments in my professional career. I never said Minister Vukic, at the time, should resign for the deaths of two MPs in Kopalnik, when he was the defence minister, nor would I say today that Minister Gasic should resign because the Serbian Army's major, pilot, committed suicide. Don't play with such serious accusations. It's about lives. I understand that life has no value for you, that it can change easily, that you're radical today, that you're a forwarder, that the day after tomorrow whatever you're hiding your own, it has a lot to do with it. So if my responsibility, gentlemen, is for the factory at which, at that moment, I wasn't, then so is the same responsibility of Minister Vukic for two deminers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22595	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22596	General, am I right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22597	Time's up, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22598	Not what I'm saying, I'm asking if I'm right? You were General of the Army. I'm sure you've had an emergency situation in the military, too, so has the minister ever resigned because of that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22599	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22600	Thank you, too, for your correctness.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22601	I've had to admit that there have been a lot of emergency events, but what I want to ask you is that you don't insult me. Leading the pasture isn't exactly appropriate. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: that's what he said.) Don't. Let's be human. I understand that all MPs run out of the agenda, talk about some events, but don't insult anyone personally. I guess that's how much we can choose words and say it. I didn't want to warn you either, but it's my duty to warn you that you're not doing it in the future. Thank you very much. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22602	Speaking of listing these things, again because of some amnesia or a desire to forget everything, I'm going to remind you of 2011 with the Poniger married couple and what made them do what they did, which is why the whole of Serbia has been mourning for weeks, months. It's none of my business who eats lunch, who eats where he eats, is it in the Wizard, in the pastures, where? What I'm interested in is why did someone, for whom the DRI in its single large report, point to irregularities in the management of the Ministry of Defense, not even consider the consequences? What about the Anti-Corruption Agency? It has the same value in our society as the Guardian of Citizens. It seems to me that some disputes are being conducted and that the Anti-Corruption Agency has started some disputes about lost apartments, and nobody has thought to resign or say – I am guilty, or say – I forgot, I'm sorry. No, not even that. I don't care who's got what or how many, but I'm sure the Minister and the MP's salary can't buy a 200 square-square-square apartment. He can't, even if he's a minister all his life. He can't. These are questions that I not only ask, but asks the Anti-Corruption Agency. Speaking of parties, I didn't get the question again -- which part of DS, from which factions, Borkov, Bojanov, Balsina? We'll list more safe and have fun on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22603	On what basis you answer, Mr Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22604	Now I'm gonna say it. I feel personally called out of their mutual discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22605	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22606	Replica. Because of Miriov. I'm a Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22607	Did you mention that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22608	I did, and I mean it. I don't mind their replicas, they can make as much as they want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22609	It's not enough reason to be mentioned. Please, you know when you have the right to a replica. If a party is mentioned, if an individual is mentioned, then the head of the parliamentary group is right. There's Mr. Babic and he reacted in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22610	The Miryevs are mentioned. I'm a Peacekeeper and I feel personally called.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22611	Never mind. I could be from Miriev, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22612	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22613	Thank you. I can't give you a replica. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22614	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which says the President of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, convenes its meetings, etc. When he's not here, he's replaced by the vice president. I also refer to article 17. Law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In which is sworn by the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia. He says, "I swear that I will perform the duty of the MP of the People's Parliament in a committed, fair, safe and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil freedoms and to serve the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, truth and justice for the best of knowledge and skill." So, according to the Constitution, a sentence is mentioned. So, Mr President, we believe that you, or the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, should have filed a motion today, or just before eight parliamentary groups, eight opposition parties, or five opposition parliamentary groups, to launch a procedure to resolve the president of the Republic of Serbia because he violated the provisions of Articles 4, 149 and 156. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22615	Mr. Veselinović, that you're advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure has nothing to do with me. Don't call on what the president needed. That's what you should have talked about while she was here. I don't see the basis for you advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So please sit down. I won't let you talk any further. Mr. Stefanovic, on what grounds? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. He can't. Mr. Stefanovic, there you are as head of the parliamentary group and there is an authorised representative, Mr. Sutanovac. Since you're both in the O.R., I can only give the word to the Shooter. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: He mentioned my name twice. I did mention the name, but I didn't see anything offensive. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: I am mentioned. No, no, no, We end up with a replica and we move on. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word has an amendment by Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22616	Thank you. As for Article 11, we are trying to avoid an awe - inspiring assessment of the individual doing a security check. We believe that in this kind of formation of this member there is an opportunity for an individual to abuse his function and cause damage to a particular user of arms. We think that this kind of ominous security assessment, regarding the ban on carrying weapons, can be extremely manipulated. I hope you'll reconsider this and the consequences that can happen in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22617	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22618	We have foreseen in the Police Act a member who will ensure that sublegal acts can be adopted to define how security checks are carried out. We're going to do it in a very detailed, defined way for people to see how it's done, so it's not left behind, and there are possibilities for various abuses. As far as this second part is concerned, I think you've seen it's just a matter of intent, because if he says he intends to hunt and get a gun, and he never leaves the hunt, then the actual letter of the law is played. He brings us a hunting ticket or he brings us a certificate from the sports association, and then he'll have a chance to get a weapon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22619	Thank you. According to the amendment, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22620	Mr. Chairman, if Mr. Babic asks several times what part of the Democratic Party is I...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22621	No, no. I won't, Mr. Shutanovac, please, if you continue like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22622	Speaking of names...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22623	Mr. Sutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22624	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22625	No, no. You won't explain it to me. If you're going to speak according to the amendment, you're right. If you're going to take the story back now, I'll give you a warning. It's your choice. Here you go. Sign in and choose.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22626	You want to do it again. I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22627	So this is how, if you go back to the topic from the previous debate, I'll give you a warning. If you continue to talk on the amendment that is now on the agenda, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22628	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22629	It's your choice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22630	Let me ask you a question. Allow me. So, if my colleague Babic says that someone here bought a 200-square-square-square-square-square apartment, and I think at the same time that, say, I mean Mr. Stefanovic or the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22631	Mr. Sutanovac, I asked nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22632	Why can't I say that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22633	Since you haven't appreciated my suggestion, I'm giving you a heads-up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22634	You're giving me a warning. So, I didn't insult anyone... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I didn't say anything, you take away my word, you take away my money.) [[Disabled microphone.]] You think we're afraid of you. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22635	Sit down, Mr. Sutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: it doesn't say anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that I have to sit down. You don't have to, stop. Your microphone is off, but I've been very correct to you and I've told you nicely how I'm going to do it. You didn't appreciate it and continue the old story, now we're going to talk about apartments, how many people have apartments, which area, where what's in it, etc., and we have concrete amendments that have nothing to do with apartments, or with Mirev, or with, I don't know what. I'm just not gonna let that kind of discussion happen. I'm begging you to sit down. I'm done. Alexandra Jerkov, on what grounds? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22636	I thank Mr. Konstantinovic. Of course, my advertising is where I believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure in Section 27 of Article 27 now that you have given the MP Sutanovac a warning because the Rules of Procedure contain certain provisions, and this Article 27 obliges you to conduct the session in the manner in which the Rules of Procedure obliges you. It is precisely envisaged that situations in which you can give notice to the MP. It is precisely foreseen situations where you can give the MP the right to a replica or deny it. And if Mr Babic accuses the People's MP, anyone, of some things, and you don't give that MP the right to answer just because at one point you have arbitraryly estimated that the end of the replicas is now, and otherwise you and all the other presidents always sort of estimate that the end of the replicas is when SNS MPs are last speaking, then that's Mr Arsenovic's violation of the Rules of Procedure. There are 104 who speak of the replica, there are members who speak about how you run the congregation. You can't do it as it comes to you, but as the Rules of Procedure binds you. I believe that no one in the ruling coalition is in a position to answer such charges in vain, but you can't interrupt the circle of replicas only when you assess that you want to do so and announce in advance - we are finishing this round of replicas, not waiting to hear whether the next speaker might say something that would give rise to the replica of someone from the opposition and oblige you to give him that replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22637	Thank you, Mrs. Jerkov. I'm saying you're not right at all. For a simple reason, I didn't tell Mr. Sutanovac for no reason and asked him for a simple move to make the opposite. But I also, you forgot, you seem to forget earlier. I had one continuity and Mr. Shutanovec said one word that he would lead these to the pasture. I'm sorry, so I kept my mouth shut. So, and now it's going to go to each other, third, etc. And there's no end, and there's no talking about the amendment. I also warned Mr. Babic several times to return to the agenda and Mr. Sutanovac. So I don't think there's really any point in the debate that's been initiated, and I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure at all. You have the right to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. My conscience is clear. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: I want to make a statement about the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone else want a word by amendment? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22638	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22639	The minister has accepted this amendment. Mr. Sutanovac, by amendment? I didn't understand anything you said. Please report that I know what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22640	Sir, the chairman, my reaction to "past" was because the gentlemen across the street said I lived in the pasture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22641	Thank you. We don't want to discuss it. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th Amendment in the same text was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22642	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests from the MUP, the Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovicu, I think we should imagine a little bit more about our amendment to article 5 of this bill, gentlemen. Here's what the Government is proposing in this position, I suggest the Government this way -- a natural person who is authorised under this law to acquire weapons from category B, so there's one part, every five years, to provide the competent authority with new assurances that are not more than a month old. Our proposal is respected, gentlemen, to reduce the deadline for delivering a new doctor's conviction and to replace the words "every five years" with the words "every three years". It seems to us, gentlemen, that the time period of three years is a reasonable period of time for the matter in question. I read the explanation why the amendment is not accepted and once again to point out, the amendment is not accepted, as the proposed three-year period for the periodic health check of gun owners would result in high costs for gun owners. Now I have two things to say, first, and what a high cost it is if for three years instead of five it should provide this document. I believe, gentlemen, that given the matter in question, that the cost of a three-year medical examination should not be a key argument for the refusal of our amendment, that a man who is to receive this permit for three years should also be given medical assurance. I'm terribly interested - does this mean that some amount of money here is an obstacle for us to control a little bit better? If that's an argument, what kind of money is respected gentlemen, so let's measure it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22643	Time. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22644	The amount of money is not an obstacle, but what is important -- here we also have a mechanism that is through the process that the chosen doctor has an obligation, which in the second part of the argument given by the Government, that the chosen doctor has an obligation to inform the competent state authority, or the nearest area police station about changes that could affect his decision to call off the issue, or the permit to carry and hold arms, I think it's sufficiently well solved. We'll see how this works out. I think this is a much better solution than we've had so far when we've only had this in the beginning of a request to hand over medical assurance, but I'm convinced that in five years and that it's a way to verify that the ministry is responsible for health. They'll assess what kind of checks should be carried out, and I'm sure there's not so much disease that in a year or two will change the character of a man that we need to take away his weapon. Of course, that financial aspect was one of the aspects, because then why not for a year? Let's put it on for six months, for a month to check it out. So there's just something that's kind of a reasonable time. We suggested that it be five years. We'll see if it creates any problems in practice. I'm sure he won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22645	Mr. Pavicevic, you want a safe replica. I don't see a basis for replication. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I have no basis? No, no, thank you. The Minister has answered your amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22646	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished citizens, I am now talking about Article 12, which talks about health skills and a new institution among those who are being introduced and those who have an armed list, who have firearms in their possession, private and who, as the applicant here says, agree with the documents of the Schengen Treaty and the directives of the Council of Europe 477/91 and 51/08. I don't need to argue at all whether medical conviction should be as proposed in Article 12 every five years, brought to the authorities who issue armed papers as proof that the owner of firearms is still medically capable of being in his possession and to understand a few of my concerns I will read the whole article so the citizens know what we're talking about. So, the medical ability to hold and carry weapons provided for in Article 11 of this Law is demonstrated by the belief of health skills. Trust in the health capacity to hold and carry arms shall be issued by a health institution which fulfils the prescribed conditions and receives a solution from the Ministry responsible for health affairs which shall determine that it fulfils the conditions for conducting medical examinations to determine the health capacity of natural persons to hold and carry arms. Closer conditions to be met by a health care institution to carry out medical examinations to determine the health capacity of natural persons to hold and carry arms are prescribed by the Minister responsible for health affairs. An authorised health care institution for conducting medical examinations to determine the health capacity of natural persons to hold and carry arms shall be obliged to notify, without delay, and within eight days at the latest, the nearest organisational unit of the ministry of the fact that the medically examined person does not meet the conditions for holding and carrying arms. A natural person who, under this law, has been authorised to acquire weapons of category B, i.e. an issued armed list must be issued to the competent authority every five years, you propose, in the amendment as a parliamentary group, we have proposed that Mr Pavicevic be given three years, i.e. after the expiry of the medical certificate on health ability to hold and carry arms deliver a new conviction that is not more than a month old. A natural person who is not satisfied with the issued belief of the health capacity to hold and carry arms may declare a complaint to the second-degree medical commission appointed by the minister responsible for health affairs. The competent authority which issued the armed list will inform the natural person about the fact of the selected doctor, medical doctor or doctor of the general medical specialist, i.e. the specialist of the medical work, in the following text – the selected doctor, the person immediately after the publication of this document. I think whoever wrote this article mixed up, as people say, grandmothers and frogs. In this article he says, Mr. Minister, i.e. the one who made this member of the law, to inform the chosen doctor. The chosen doctor is a doctor in primary health care. Doctor specialist in medicine work as a specialist in medicine work is not a selected doctor. That's two things that get mixed up. This article will introduce such papaziania and such indeterminateness and such confusion in those who need it in the next three years, I speak as your associate said, about 585 thousand gunmen. It means 585 thousand people will be subject to review. It's not specified here by what kind of review it takes to own an armed list, whether it's a psychiatric examination. If this is a psychiatric examination, will psychiatrists be able to carry out 585 000 checks with regular work in primary health care? Will it be a health care obligation or will it be paid especially as a check-up is paid for, say, a driver's license and what kind of coercion would it be for people? If we are already going and agreeing with the documents of the European community to which we are seeking, why don't you tell me – in which country is the luxury tax paid for the possession of weapons? I think that, Mr. Minister, is the only member of this law that's really inconclusive and will bring confusion in the application of the law that most people, as far as I can see here, agree that, with amendments, it's correct and quality written, i.e. Consistent with European norms. I think we went through this law to the upper limit, so to speak, strictness. Was that supposed to happen? It's a personal perception. I wouldn't comment on that, but this member of the law, where do you say that the chosen general practice doctor, or doctor who finds out that the person he's holding and carrying the weapon, has come up with a change of health status, and now I'm going to return you again, if necessary or if the health department prescribes that it will be a psychiatric examination, then how can the chosen doctor disinfect the diagnosis or prejudge the diagnosis of a psychiatric specialist without insulting the expertise of the chosen doctor? But if that's what the doctor is supposed to do, then what does a psychiatrist do? If he's supposed to be doing his chosen doctor, what does a doctor do for a medical doctor? How, if a specialist in medicine works in my town of Nis, medical work means a doctor of medical work will inform a selected doctor from a health care center who has my chart, since I have an armed list, that I have received or have not received consent for the armed list, and then my chosen doctor, Dr. Perisic, will inform the MUP, the unit in Nis that I should be invited and bring in the armed list, gun and ammunition, everything in the bag? I think it's very complicated and it's unspeakable. There was a good will, but it wasn't known and someone who wrote this doesn't mean he had a bad intention, he didn't consult people from the profession. Thank God, there are enough doctors here on our board, i.e. There's also a psychiatrist, a medical specialist, and I'm a dentist. There's a million professions here that could have been consulted and this could've been arranged properly. I repeat, this will create a great confusion and create a major problem in application. Another suggestion. You said in the principle debate, Mr. Minister, when it came to a luxury cab paid by all of us who have an armed list, that it wasn't in your jurisdiction, that it was done by the Ministry of Finance. You are a member of the government and you can launch an initiative, where 585,000 users will thank you for taking a tax, because, under this law, you have a gun and a gun, and since we've all been taxed a year, and some have been given interest rates of 100 and a few thousand now that they didn't carry weapons, it's a luxury. Let's discuss whether weapons are a necessity or a luxury. If the need is and all of us who have passed this rigorous check, which I welcome and who should be rigorous, yet having a firearm is no joke, but why is it a luxury and why is the state taxing us, whoever is in power and whoever runs that state? I think that should be lifted, because if this remains for five years, because I see that your proposal will be voted upon to pay medical assurance, even though the extra tax on luxury is still paid, it doesn't seem to be abolished, then I think you should give some amendment to some member as the Ministry how the easiest and most painless people can hand over their weapons, not to give it away, because it has some value, material value and how nice people can be released without being harmed. Because, under this law, it is that we need to control who has the weapon and it is that it should be placed in a strict legal framework, but, on the other hand, if we say that the weapon is a need, then we give a chance to those who have 800,000, as you say, unregistered pipes, that they can very easily harass those who bought it to have home to protect their property, their family and to prevent the abuse of those who have long pipes and short pipes illegally in possession. So this law applies only to those of us who are safe and responsible and should be so, I don't object to it, but I object to paying cabs and rebelling against these indiscretions that will bring confusion and be interpreted from city to city. They were alive, so they saw that I was right. Because, first of all, I don't know how the Health Department is going to propose. What will he suggest when you gave him the basic guidelines? Is this going to be done by a psychiatrist because I don't see what it's got to do with elevated sugar and a license to carry a weapon, i.e. possession? Since 1992, I guess you need a license to wear. What's it got to do with ishialgia or lack of sighting with a gun license? So it's supposed to be a psychiatric examination, what is absolutely necessary, but then this member is disabling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22647	Mr. Minister, I've got a little business problem. You, according to the Rules of Procedure, have the right to make an amendment to a two-minute comment. In your previous comment, you used half a minute. I suggest, since there are two more reported, I'll give you another minute... (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the scene: I will do this for 30 seconds.) I thought maybe someone else would, and that's why I suggested it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22648	I'll try to be concise. I'm not a doctor, but, of course, if it's a serious lack of visibility, I'm afraid it can also affect the approval of weapons. You know, if he doesn't see anything, I say it like a man wearing glasses, if you have such a problem, then the question is, would he... But that's not up to us, it's up to the medical board. And we have seen for ourselves that there are certain indiscretions and we have accepted three amendments to this article. Through these three amendments, Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic have solved these problems. So he's defined and he's solved exactly this problem that you're talking about. We held up, there was a long public debate, for almost a year there was a public debate about this law, and it was a good opportunity for everyone to get involved and give their opinion on this. I think that's a good principle and a good way to go. This law has been in parliament for almost two months. So, we had one of the longest possible discussions, a public debate, and then in a regular procedure over two months, the law is here. People's MPs have seen problems, made amendments, and I've accepted them, and I think we've solved that. You're basically right about this. So, as far as taxes are concerned, no government has abolished the tax because, you know, when we talk about taxes, tomorrow we talk about pregnant women's rights, maternity rights, we talk about disabled people's rights, we talk about road construction, we talk about infrastructure, that money doesn't fall from the sky, it's paid by citizens, it's tax policy. I could do demagogue here, talk to you -- let's cancel all taxes. No government or party, your party and those governments it has committed has ever abolished that tax. Simply, they felt that money was needed to achieve some other rights. As for citizens who want to alienate weapons, they have more ways of doing what they can through the legalization process. If they have a weapon in legal possession, they can alienate it, they can sell it, they can hand it over for free to the competent state authority and they can disable it and it becomes an old weapon, for which there is no need to ask for any permission anymore, nor will they pay a fee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22649	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Jelisaveta Prytear, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22650	I do not think that this amendment should be accepted, for the simple reason that the Bill of Weapons and Ammunition quite finely defines it in the part where it is said that the competent authority issuing the approval, i.e. the gun list, to some natural person for the purchase and possession of weapons, is obliged to inform the chosen doctor about that fact, and all citizens are obliged to have their elected doctors. It is true that the chosen physician belongs to primary health care, and it is true that he cannot always have insight into the health condition of every person with a gun list. However, medical work also belongs to primary health care and is the only service that can issue medical assurances, and on its team there are also social workers and psychologists and ophthalmologists and interns and neuropsychiatrists. So it's the only service that will be able to issue medical assurances. We all know that we live in one turbulent time and that change in health skills and health is a very variable category at all, but there is therefore a chosen doctor who will inform the competent authority if such a situation occurs. I don't think that this amendment should be accepted for that reason and that for five years it's a perfectly decent time to issue a doctor's opinion of a natural person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22651	According to the amendment, the word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22652	I thank you, Chairman. Given that the SPS parliamentary group has supported and will vote in favour of the text of the proposed law, we have also commented on the provision of this member and what has been stated by fellow Bradic can be seen with good intentions. However, what is very important to point out is the following fact that this law and certain provisions, in particular this provision relating to the issue of medical assurance, both for the keeping and for carrying of arms, cannot be implemented in practice in the most efficient way without the adoption of a sublegal act. So a sublegal act could define everything that opened up here as a question, or question, because there were more. Will there be an observation, of course professional, by a neuropsychiatric doctor or by some other specialist doctor? As the minister himself says, what if it is an ophthalmologist, who in any case has a significant role to play in the observation of a potential carrier or weapons holder? Since the law has already defined that these issues will be settled in agreement with the Ministry of Health, then it is quite logical that the sublegal act in this sense, which is adopted in accordance with this law, settles these issues that have remained open, and we also believe that they do not really have a complete determination when interpreting the law or certain provisions of the law here on the agenda. After all, there is a special kind of responsibility for anyone who betrays confidence. We have touched questions here in principle and how sensitive they are. There has been a terrible murder in Jabukovac, one of the most difficult forms of crime that has shaken not the public of Serbia, but a far wider public. In doing so, the perpetrator also had a license to carry a weapon, and he had this so-called. post-traumatic syndrome. Thus, this sensitive part of the issue of conviction carries a high degree of responsibility and must be approached with one particular attention and caution, of course and caution. That is why the suggestion, in principle, was also directed towards the right to, by means of, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, by, or by, a regulation, by, or regulation, the offices of these issues, which remain open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22653	Thank you. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the same amendment, MPs Dragan Šormaz and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo submitted the same amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted to the title above Articles 13 and 13 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korac, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22654	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment to Article 13, we proposed that, in Article 13(2), following the words ‘in accordance with’, the word ‘legal’, which would appear to be this way: ‘the competent authority in the decision-making process, in addition to the evidence required by the applicant, shall use the information contained in the law records, as well as the data to be obtained in the conduct of its business in accordance with’, and we add: ‘legal powers’. And in paragraph 6 at the end of the sentence, we replace the point with a comma and add the words, “at the latest within three days of the expiry of the term set out in Article 5. ” It refers to the return of approval for the purchase of a weapon, for the purchase of a six-month-long weapon, where what is not said is not to buy a weapon in the six-month period. Normally, it loses its importance, probably this document, as soon as it's limited to six months, but we think it should be made more clear that whoever got the approval, and not using it, is obliged to return it to the police or the MUP, the unit that's in his place. That's why we tabled this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22655	The word has been given to the People's Messenger of the Jellysavet of the Colors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22656	I think that this amendment should also be rejected, for the simple reason that this approval does not have the power of a public document, but only the right that within six months a natural person can obtain a weapon. If he doesn't use that right during that period, what does three days mean? After the end of the first day, he no longer has the right to do so, which means that he does not commit any offence, but only loses the right to obtain weapons in a certain period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22657	Thank you. Milanka Jeftovic, by amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22658	I would like to agree with my colleague, Jelisavet Prebojac, in the position of the 6th Article 13. I'd like to add one more thing. The amendment in the first part should not be accepted, for the reason that the competent authorities do their work solely in accordance with their powers. In order to carry out their work in accordance with their powers, these powers stem from the law and in fact give them the authority of the authorities to act. For that reason, what is proposed by the amendment is excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22659	Mr. Bradiche, by amendment? Yeah. You can do it by amendment. You have two minutes and 45 seconds, as a parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22660	Okay. I know how much time I have. Thank you. I think that colleagues are wrong and I think that the solution that we have proposed is more meaningful and better because the essence of the law is to be clear and clearly limited in all norms, without the possibility of free interpretation, and I think the amendment is better because of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22661	Thank you. National MP Zeljko Sušec submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted to the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22662	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry of the Interior and the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, we have submitted an amendment to Article 17, and we propose that this amendment, ourselves in our country, respected gentlemen, should be directed towards monitoring some modern flows as regards the issue of the arms list. Please just focus a little attention on the content of this amendment. I think it would be very good for all the citizens of our Republic to adopt this amendment. Namely, Article 17 states: ‘A natural person who, on the basis of the approval of the competent authority, has made a request to the competent authority for the issue of an armed list within eight days of the date of the purchase of the weapon. The request shall also be accompanied by evidence of the origin of the weapon’. We suggest adding: "and evidence of the ballistic profile of the bullet fired", gentlemen. Ballistics profile or print of the bullet fired, it's important to me here now to say it because I think this should be part of our legal matter, it's a forensic technique that determines the marks that the weapon leaves behind an unfired bullet. That means, let's imagine now, that it's possible based on a shot fired, found for example. at the scene of a crime, to determine which weapon was fired, if there is a previous record of ballistic profiles. It means, gentlemen, that by introducing this content, we provide strong potential to solve some crimes more easily, for example. some kind of murder. If through this technique we can solve one murder, I think it's enough to justify such a measure, despite the reasons the government is saying it shouldn't be taken. I have another amendment concerning this matter, so I'll use that time for further argument, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22663	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22664	Now I don't just know if you've agreed to extend the period of validity to ten years. I'll briefly explain what the DS suggested. Unfortunately, in fact, none of our amendments have entered the original form, all gone through the Committee, so it turns out our amendments were no good. In fact, our amendments generated these amendments from the Committee. Therefore, the armed list is foreseen to be issued with a limited period of validity of a natural person who fulfils all the conditions laid down in Article 11. In translation, unless it fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 11, that armed list shall be automatically taken or not assigned. Our idea was to issue an armed paper, to say, without a period of validity, by having an armed list to meet all the conditions of Article 11 concerning the issue and the conduct of the examination, which we had just heard about. We believe that this would be an expedient thing for both the Ministry of Administrative Affairs and the Ministry of Administrative Affairs, in order to allow these people, if they are already going to medical examinations, do not have to come to the MUP as well. It's now, if I understand it well for 10 years, because the chip on the future electronic card doesn't support a time period longer than 10 years. Now this is a question, I don't know if we can intervene, make it such a possibility that if technical support exists, it will be longer. Because, believe me, we were just counting, if there are over 870 in Serbia, as I understand it, pieces of firearms that are in legal possession, let's say that there are two per person, that's over 400,000 people, if we divide into the number of working days, that's over 300, 350 people who would have to turn every day in cycles, both with doctors in the MUP, 300, 350 people a day. Sometimes it's going to be 500. I think it's going to be a very big job, unnecessary. So there's no need to do that, if he doesn't meet these conditions he'll be taken away, if he meets him he'll be extended. Is that right? Which is why you'd be coming for an extension. Yeah, it doesn't make sense. If we are now referring to some other law, or as is said here, the procedure is also provided for by the regulations governing the general administrative procedure. I mean, Mr. Stefanovic, you came here today as a modernizer who needs to modernise Serbia with a new law, there's no need to be held back by any administrative procedure. Let's start modernization in the internal affairs system and allow people to work faster, more efficiently to benefit Serbian citizens who want to have or already own a gun list, while respecting all the legal assumptions that they can have within a longer period of time than those five or 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22665	The word has a National MP Ivana Stoiljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers and Guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on this amendment relating to Article 17, which is related to the issue of an armed list and a more precise position 5, which says - the armed paper will be issued with a limited period of validity of up to five years by a natural person who meets the conditions laid down in Article 11 of this Act. Article 11 of the Law considers that the purchase of weapons should meet all the conditions for being a health professional. This amendment required that the word be replaced for five years for 10 years and this refers to the period of validity of the issued armed list, which is in principle not represented. To end five years and go for 10 years? (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the place: No, but to be completely abolished. To be completely abolished? I'm sorry, then I didn't get that change. But in any case, I would comment on the very health condition of the person carrying the weapon. She would certainly agree that more often people who carry weapons should be controlled because at the moment of weapons supply, it does not mean that the same health situation will be, because in principle, mental patients are mainly not perpetrators of crime, but are people who have a blackout of consciousness or mind at the moment. So regular controls are definitely necessary. In any case, it is necessary to make sure that each of the people with the weapon has a chosen doctor and that these medical checks are regular. First of all, I would like to commend the competent ministry and the minister when it comes to weapons because of the tendency of the fall of crimes committed by cold and firearms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22667	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22668	Thank you for your suggestions. As far as this amendment is concerned, so the whole state of law, we've now changed a lot of things. Now more on one gun list, so on one card you'll have information for every weapon, which is good. For every weapon, you had a special gun list. So that blue leaf that blue document for each weapon gets you a special cardboard form. Now you have one as a driver's license biometric form on which every weapon you get will be entered. At this point, we're technically limited to 10 years. So the chip supports, our bases support that kind of records. I don't think that's too much of a burden. You said 350, 400 people, 27 police departments, times a police station, it's not more than one man a day on a counter just for this. So, I'm not saying that, of course, there's no pressure of any kind, but the police were able to issue both three and a half million passports in a short time, maybe more. Here, Mrs. Kasalica corrects me, six million passports in a relatively short time as they appeared as a biometric document in the previous period. So I believe that there are capacities in the Administration to deal with this kind of challenge. I agree that in the future, if the technology changes, we can work on it, maybe this deadline extends to maybe 20 years, which they don't even have a professional service problem, but we'll see how it's inoculated. As I said, I will not be against the discussion in this House of amendments and additions and in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22669	According to the amendment, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22670	This is now a question of modernization. I don't have a problem with the administration being able to issue six million passports or 850,000 gun licenses or I don't know how many millions of traffic licenses or driver's licenses, but it's just a question of whether it's supposed to work. Is that what the MUP does in Germany or does local self-government? So, what does the MUP do, and what does local self-government do? So, what's the M.O.P. doing with that? That's what I'm telling you, because you want to be a modernizer, I've read some of your interviews, I've read some counselors who advise, if you want to change something, you have to go right now, you won't be in power as long as you think, let me tell you right now in confidence. So, a coworker from Uzic, you either have the wrong amendment or you've been suggested. My amendment does not apply to outdated items. What you said was three years and it should be more often, so you support Mr Pavicevic's amendment, which is not there, and he suggested he be for three years. You'll be able to support that in the voting day, and I think that would be correct in line with what you said. So it's just to me that the M.O.P. doesn't have to do what he doesn't have to do. When you get that document, you meet all the conditions that are necessary, and if you don't meet it, then it's taken away, if you meet it automatically, and there's no need for it to be, so objectively it's not necessary. Not to mention the validity of the driver's license. Also, a doctor's examination, if the doctor's examination is okay, then you can automatically extend the validity if it's not taken away. I mean, just when you multiply it all, the passport is something else, the passport is defined by international laws, regulations and so on, but when you're making all that happen with some hundred thousand people, it's not one man per police administration a day, it's a lot more. I used to work with my colleague Kasalica, and she remembers it's a huge job when there's some changes, so all of a sudden, it's a huge job. That's what I'm telling you, because you have to say a shortcut to work, because this is a conditionally said side job that may be very important, but I'd really like to be a state of affairs like the lady of reduced crime in Serbia and less use of cold weapons, and the day before that, a man was killed with some saber or I don't know what weapon, machete. It's not as great as you say, and the black chronicles are full every day. We had ministers the other day discussing statistics. What you said about last year when you take the paper, just the day before today, all the statistics fall into the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22671	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22672	Statistics are statistics and these are facts that are like that whether someone likes it or not. Of course, as I told you, and then I'm absolutely unhappy when there's a crime. We have criminal acts that are being committed. The police are working on lighting. So we'll try to be as effective as possible in that sense. As for the government, believe me, by doing this duty, here I am for nine months the Minister of the Interior, not one day in those nine months has been easy for me. I've never enjoyed anything or happened, unfortunately in this ministry which makes you happy and irritable, it's mostly about the hardest things that can happen and that you have to deal with. So, as far as I'm concerned, I don't have to be a minister tomorrow morning, so it won't be hard for me at all. I will try to do what I do in the work that I do in a way that people in this country are satisfied, that we are really innovating and changing and trying and through the laws that I propose and through other measures that we are doing to make people see the police, or the MUP progress. We'll also talk to the Ministry of Finance and when that moment comes on the agenda. I will ask you all to support that certain funds are being channeled towards the Ministry of the Interior when it comes to, say, security of certain events through what the Constitution prescribes in terms of security, security and security. So, to make up for just the costs that the MIP has, let me say, through overtime or by saying engagement that wasn't regularly scheduled to provide for these transports of certain substances, etc. We send people, every game that's estimated to have an increased risk, you know how it goes, there's always more people going, and then there's their travel expenses, transportation and buses and everything that goes. So, after all, hiring these people, so it's going to be a good opportunity to secure more stable funding, so if someone wants to organize a different kind of event, someone besides others has that expense that they have, but we're going to try to modernise really more and more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22673	Thank you. By amendment, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22674	I suggested to you last time, and I heard from your colleague that if I'm not mistaken, there are 856 thousand and 865 thousand pieces of weapons in the official and legal possession of Serbian citizens. In my opinion, all the taxes paid on the basis of that weapon should go to the first register of the Ministry of the Interior, because all those weapons were obtained on the basis of the consent of a security check, etc., by whom? You do it. I'm familiar with it, so you told us on the Defence and Security Committee that one day the Pride Parade cost 300,000 euros. Unfortunately, we don't even know today how much the Parade of the Army was organized by Mr. Gasic, which is organized much longer and much harder and much more serious, it means more millions, but I say we can't know because obviously you work transparently and don't think when I tell you - you won't stay here long. It's not a subject. The theme is that you be a modernizer, change the conditions for your colleagues' work and change the possibility that when Serbian citizens come to the police they come precisely because it is necessary and that what they do ends quickly. It's the essence of being a citizen service, and you as a young man and I say you have the intensity to accept it, because if you rely on the regulations that exist, and I believe you've already met with it, to tell you – it can't because that's the way we've never done it. Do not waste time no matter how much you will be in that place, because every day for Serbia is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22675	Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Mr. Dejan Chapo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22676	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, just to clarify the mystery of the past. The amendment has been submitted by the LSV and refers to Article 17, paragraph 5, where we ask that an organized period of validity of five years be replaced by the words "ten years". We think this is an optimal solution for a number of reasons, one we've heard about these are the technological possibilities of issuing armed papers. Another argument so that we can somehow prevent and unload administrative affairs and organisational units of the ministry, i.e. Police administrations as well as citizens, and of course to reduce the costs of citizens who have weapons to issue an armed list, and in this way we will equalise the period of issue of the armed list, as documents by issuing other personal documents such as ID card, driver's license and other travel documents. Thank you again for accepting this amendment to LSV.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22677	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry of the Interior, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovicu, I need here at the very beginning to announce that I really don't understand why the amendment to Article 21 has not been accepted. Let me try to convince our guests and MPs once more to accept this amendment. In Article 21, paragraph 2 is to be changed in our court and reads this – to the persons of the position of the first member, the competent authority will ban the collection of ammunition for its own needs and the needs of their shooting and hunting organisations. We propose to add the wording and the wording here, as well as the transmutation of gas ammunition and other types of ammunition to the missile ammunition; and then it goes stuck and continued -- as the Government has suggested, if the procedure finds that they do not meet the conditions prescribed by this, or other law. We have finely announced here that the submission of the amendment aims to avoid misuse of harmless ammunition into dangerous ammunition. The government responds to us why it does not accept the amendment – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that there have been no cases of gas ammunition conversion in combat ammunition in practice so far; and then I return the proposals to what is contained in our proposal. We say – as well as the conversion of gas and other types of ammunition into ammunition with a missile and then we put our argument on the possibility of preventing the possibility of misusing the harmless into dangerous ammunition. Again, I don't understand why we always have to react afterwards, wait for an event, some awkward thing to say, and then let's say -- here's practice, so now I'm going to react. This can happen, we can imagine, why in the law not to prevent such opportunities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22679	Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored guests from the Ministry of the Interior, here is Mr. Maric, for the time being, followed by the Honorable President and Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsenović, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have suggested that the position of Article 1 of the 24th Amendment be changed, and that amendment, gentlemen, is related to our amendment to article 1 of this proposal, which concerns the introduction of a newspaper in our country called "Balistic profile of the shot fired", respected gentlemen. I'm part of an argument to introduce this kind of innovation already announced in the debate on our amendment to Article 17, but now I want to add two things here. One thing is, every weapon, gentlemen of honor, even if I did research here, learn and learn because I'm not from that area, but here I've been doing a little bit of this, every weapon makes different tracks. They explained it to me something like a fingerprint. Then he says -- those tiny prints in the metal, the bullet goes through the pipe, gets a unique print. What's our proposal? We think we need to build that ballistic profile base. If this base were to be created, and could be made on the basis of our amendments to Article 17 and Article 24, it might be possible to establish the perpetrator of the crime based on the analysis of the casing found. The promoter calls for this proposal to generate additional costs for the gun owner. So what if it creates an extra cost? Dear gentlemen, if it creates an extra cost, what is the cost to prevent us here from introducing this as an option that certainly, apparently, contributes to the common good, good of all citizens of our Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22681	Thank you. The word is Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22682	I don't agree with you on this, on this one, and I think we're predicting in each article a little bit of a new cost, and in the end, we're going to get to the point that these fees are going to be so big that people are going to give up on it. I'd like to go back to this last one, I didn't respond in time because I wanted to consult procedureally. In principle, I agree with you. So your explanation is good and I mean calling on some kind of existing practice. I've never seen what a gas bullet looks like. Now, my colleagues have explained to me that he's only got a very different eight-millimeter caliber than a standard nine-millimeter gun bullet, but he's also got a brass shell that, theoretically, could be converted into a warhead, and since it would create a major procedural difficulty if I accepted your amendment, we would have to take a break to make the government's statement, that you have an opinion, I'm just going to propose to the ruling majority colleagues to vote for the day of voting for this amendment to that member. If they adopt that, I think it's an improvement in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22683	If I understand, you accept this amendment? (Nobojsa Stefanovic, from the post: I can't say I accept it now, I suggest that you vote on it in the voting day. So, we're going to sign the vote. Thank you. The 25th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22684	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in Article 25 after Article 3, we suggested adding a new position, which reads: "The natural person of attitude 1 is required to undergo special training for arms handling, whose programme is prescribed by the minister". We're talking about a gun license here, not for possession, but for carrying a weapon, and we thought that those who get permission to carry a gun, so they have a great opportunity, which is why they've got to carry a weapon, use that weapon, that they should go through special training, that if they ever get into a situation to use a weapon, they'll be the safest way. In the 10th position, which says that a license to carry a weapon is issued with a limited period of validity of up to five years, we have suggested that the word "five years", replace it with the words "up to one year", because we believe that all those who, for the sake of the service's need to carry weapons, do not need them, have different permits, and all those who get permission to carry firearms are thought of short tubes, that they are renewing it for a year, because that need as it arises can and disappear. I understand the full explanation of the minister, who said that up to five years could be six months, and a year, and three years and five years. For this reason, we suggest that it be up to a year, because if it can happen that the need disappears after a year and a half and for some reason someone can wear it without the need and consent of a possible one that would not get five years of that weapon. That's why we've proposed that permission to carry a natural person be issued up to one year and that for each year they're obliged to extend it. It is an administration, but I think it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia to keep such people on the streets as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22685	The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted an amendment to Article 25. Minister, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22686	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22687	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22688	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ministers, as I understand it, you have now adopted a member of the Committee who has come out of the DS amendment somewhere. I thank you for that and to explain to the citizens what this is really about, what we wanted with this amendment. It concerns a member of the 25th issue of a permit to carry a weapon. For the sake of the citizens, I will read the article that we wanted to better define: "The natural person of the position of the 1st member must meet the requirements of Article 11 of this law and prove it," the first disputed situation we pointed out, "that personal security is at stake or could be threatened to such an extent", which is the second disputed situation, "that for his safety the carrying of weapons is". In fact, we have discussed this article and this definition "to prove that its safety is compromised" is actually controversial, because proving the process that takes place and there is an exact process of proof, namely whether the court or the MUP is assessing the security of that person, but in any case it is a process that takes and during this process can be achieved by achieving these threats. Our intensity was also the intensity of this amendment to speed up the authorisation process by proposing instead of proof that the definition would stand to deliver knowledge, certainly and to verify that knowledge. It is a procedure that is much faster than proof and therefore we think that the adoption of this amendment is good and that this nuance between proving and delivering knowledge is actually a nuance that can preserve certain lives. Thank you again for adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22689	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22690	Thank you. I, too, wanted to continue in the same tone as my colleague Nikolic, to explain once more in front of the Defence Committee. So, it was an initial proposal by a fellow Sutanovac, we only made one legal formulation, and we rewritten that word "prove" with "make it likely", so that's another compromise. In what ways someone will be able to make a likely threat to their safety, it will already be prescribed in some other ways. Anyway, here's another compromise, and that's parallel to our previous amendment, where we also use the same formulation in Article 11. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22691	Thank you. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22692	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests from the Ministry of the Interior, respected presidents of the National Assembly, two things I want to say now about this amendment. The first thing, for the sake of precision, gentlemen, is just to remind here that, if I understand correctly, Minister Stefanovic has now decided to accept our amendment to Article 21. The bill, to enter the register because the minister made it known during the debate on the second amendment to another member, so that there is no confusion in the day of voting among the SNS MPs, honourable gentlemen. I'm just asking that it be established and confirmed here in some way. So, Article 21. The second thing, we have submitted an amendment to Article 25, which provides for the introduction of a new attitude 12, which reads: “The approvals for carrying official weapons may also be issued by other competent authorities in the cases provided for by other laws. ” In the principle debate, I have indicated here and made it clear that there are some parts of this law, or a bill that would, when adopted, be incompatible with the content of other laws. It seems to me, for example, that if Article 25 of this proposal were to remain as it is now written, it would create certain tensions with the content of Article 22. The law on the execution of criminal sanctions. That is why we propose to introduce this new position of Article 25 so that the provisions of different laws relating to similar or the same matter are fully agreed and that we have a kind of legal order when it comes to the approval to carry official arms, for example, in Article 22 of this law that I have mentioned, outside of working hours. It seems to us that it would create conditions for the creation of legal order and that this amendment should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22693	Thank you. So, on Article 24 of the Minister's suggestion, the MPs in the voting day were to make a statement. That's what's said. We kept a record. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22694	Here, let's be clear here. When the amendment to Article 24 was under discussion, I accepted the suggestion to vote for the amendment to Article 21.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22695	So on the 24th, we're gonna delete?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22696	Delete 24, stay 21. Resales gas ammunition, that's the point. As for this, we in Article 2. The bill states: “The provisions of this law do not apply to state authorities that supply, hold, carry and transport arms and ammunition in accordance with specific regulations. ” So, not the state organs. As far as private security is concerned, they have a special law to regulate it. So, we've already exempt ourselves from this law. So this law doesn't apply to those... Like, for example, the court guard that's in that sense, so in that sense, there's no need to... I see you understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22697	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22698	Just for a little while. The gas gun can't be converted. I mean, his tube's in the water, and it can't be changed, so it's not a topic. The ammunition can, because it looks identical and it's not just eight millimeters of caliber, it's got different calibers, you said only one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22699	Thank you. On behalf of the 26th Amendment, MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojisic and Dejan Chapo together. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a magistrate, Dejan Chapo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22700	Thank you, President. Dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is another amendment that has been accepted, which has been submitted by the LSDV parliamentary group and refers to the name of Article 26, which is called "No Weapons Wearing". We have submitted an amendment to delete the name of the member, because in the previous name of the member, in Article 25, which is closer to regulating the terms and procedures for the approval of the weapon, it is termed "Weapon bearing". Article 26. In the first place, the draft law lays down a principle of ban on carrying arms, and it reads - weapons are prohibited in public place, except in cases established by this or other law. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, I believe that because of all of this, it is also justified to delete the name of Article 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22701	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov, Blasa Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22702	Madam President, this amendment refers to the possibility of using legal gas sprays and electric shock devices by persons under 18 years of age. I remind you, a car ride under 18 is allowed in Serbia. If you look at how many accidents we have in traffic relative to the use of gas sprays or electroshocks, we should stop the ability to drive cars, not reduce to 16 years, as is done, which I support. Now, as a parent, I ask you once again, before we vote, think about why you put all the children in a context in which they are said to be – for the reasons that underage persons over the age of 16 cannot be expected to have sufficient maturity and responsibility for carrying gas sprays. I don't think you should have written this argument. If a minor over 16 can drive a vehicle and can't have a spray, it's in conflict with common sense. As the parent of a minor, who I am convinced will not be abused, I ask you to reconsider and accept this amendment once again, because I told you, Mr. Minister, if you're leaving the grounds for trouble, then this whole law falls into the water, because surely someone will use the weapon in an unlicensed way and do someone evil or deprive him of life. I think this thing is very important from the aspect of security, not just security from people, bad intentions, but also from animals. If we save one life thanks to some girl or some boy using that spray, believe me, it's much more valuable than anything that can be made by adolescents who behave inappropriately by spraying that spray, which can be bought, and I'm sure those who want to do it will do without permission. So I think you should step out of the norms that exist. Young people and 16-year-old girls aren't as young as they used to be. Many more use techniques like before, they are aware of dangers, and we are aware that they are often victims of violence and not of minors, but of those who are old to be their parents. I ask you both as an MP and as a parent and on behalf of all those children who would use it in the right way, and I'm sure those who want to use it in a bad way will use it whether it's limited to 16, 18, 25 years or not. This is an appeal. If you accept, it's an honor, if not, to do what.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22703	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22704	I'm the father of a minor. However, my child is much younger. But what I'm saying is, we've had a situation until the moment this law comes into force, this seems literally any subject of criminal punishment, anyone who's worn something like this. We're making a step today. We allow individuals 16 to 18 years of age to own these devices, but they cannot carry them with them. So he serves them as a protection in their homes. I know that's a question sometimes, because the right to tell you, you're thinking about when someone comes back alone, but also, if there's a possibility of some abuse, I don't mean just abuses that will make safe children, there are those who will try to get that kind of species, and we have all the indicators and we have to say it like that, that we have a slight increase in juvenile delinquency. Only the question arises – are we going to do more damage? It's one dilemma that really exists in me as a father and in me as a minister of the interior, as well as in all of us, because I see that we all think. Everyone here wants us to make sure the streets are safer, but if we arm these kids now and let 16-year-old kids take electric shockers to schools, will that work? Because when the first incident happens, when the first situation happens to one child to use an electroshocker or a gas weapon on his classmate, the first thing they're going to say is – how could you let this happen, chaos, etc. So we decided that it would be persons of 18 years of age who might wear it. Faces by the age of 18 will be able to own it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22705	Mr. Sutanovac, you gave yourself your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22706	I speak to you standing up, never sitting down like a single colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22707	No, but before you did, more colleagues came forward, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22708	I'm sorry. We're going to assume there's gonna be a problem, and why don't we start by assuming that maybe Tianna would be alive today if she had a spray? So, one life saved, hundreds of thousands of problems with that spray should be made, worth more than the tears caused by that spray in a child's fight or I don't know what. I note, those who want to abuse, they can do it today. Is that right? Whether they're in high school or already where, if abused, they'll abuse, and if they're officially authorized and if they're not. So, abuse exists even if it's allowed to carry. He is not allowed to apply it in a way that is not prescribed, so in the necessary self-defense. We give them the opportunity to have spray, do not tell them – go to school now, and spray with each other. Just like if we don't give them the opportunity to have spray, then we don't give them the chance to defend themselves against those who have that spray and use it improperly. The question is, are you looking at the method of induction or deduction? Are you starting to get in trouble? Well, the best thing would be if there wasn't a spray, there wasn't a weapon, there wasn't anything that could cause pain, that we would all go with the flowers together, and I would support it right now. But that's not there. What Mr. Canak said, quoting mind people -- weapons don't kill, people kill people, not weapons. So, that spray in the hands of some bully will have his license or no license, but some child who is not violent can save maybe even life and I remind you of that. We have a situation, if I'm not mistaken in Vojvodina, that the dog bit the owner to death. If she had sprayed by chance, even though she was at age, she'd defend herself. It could happen to a child, too. Don't start with children being delinquent. It is a very small percentage, although there is an increase in the number of children in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22709	The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22710	Thank you. I've overstepped my time for two minutes, but I'll make sure I'm concise. That's why we realized there was a need for that kind of weapon to be allowed. So, sprays, electroshocks, and that's why we made it possible for people to be safer, that they could use it. It may happen today that someone abuses it, and gas weapons, and electroshockers, but until today, it has been a criminal response. From the moment this law comes into force, he won't be held accountable for it. As a result, there is a latent threat of increasing the number of abuses in everyday life. We felt that at the age of 18, when society realized that from that year on, conditionedly, the largest number of people since that year became more mature, more aware of the responsibility of the use or abuse of anything, we were guided by it and decided on this solution. Of course, we'll see in practice what results this will give. I don't think we wait too long. After a few months, we can analyze the application of the law, what we did, whether it gave the expected results. If we agree to go further liberalization, after a while, when people have already gotten used to the existence of all this, this is all new to our society, this is the newspaper that's being introduced, when we're together to estimate that we're ready for the next step, I think we can move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22711	The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22712	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to point out the following. This law does not deal with legislation relating to toys and entertainment and entertainment items, but with weapons and ammunition after which someone can be killed or seriously injured. That is why it is unacceptable for me to have the idea of allowing minors, or children any option of legally obtaining and holding or carrying any kind of weapon, even if it is gas devices. In the years of turbulent pubertyic maturation, when a part of the children of that age are noticeably negative and identification with film and street antiheroes, they give the children arms in their hands, even if they were gas devices, it is totally unacceptable for me. I also find it unacceptable that when a child goes to a bar, to a party, to the city to carry a weapon in his pocket or some defense prop. I think it's absolutely unacceptable to give children weapons in their hands, and to judge them as minors when they create a circus, because I find our children's maturity and independence, and even responsibility, are now gaining much later than expected at the age they are in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22713	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22714	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am fully in agreement with my colleague Mrdakovic that the proposed amendment should be rejected, because in addition to her citing this, it opens up a number of other topics. For example, could a child aged 17 or 18 keep such a prop for himself or be able to give it up, sell, lend to a third party or simply lose it or, in the euphemism language, unintendedly benefit? I find it quite irresponsible to put weapons in their hands, to treat their fears, paranoia, frustration, and identity crisis, which is typical of teenage age. So, once again, from the explanation of the minister and the attitude of colleague Mrdakovic, I agree, so the amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22715	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22716	As regards the previous amendment, since the amendment does not apply to electric shockers, the amendment applies only to gas devices and we believe that we can accept it, since it is only sprays, so that we will ask all MPs to vote on this amendment in the day of voting, as this is the only procedural way to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22717	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22718	I want to thank the minister, who, despite her co-worker's insistence, who spoke before the children should not be allowed to have gas sprays, has just shown that he understands. Guns and cold weapons, so kids carry swords, so they play. Thank you again. I think we've made a step out of this. The idea wasn't to be these electroshocks, it was just gas sprays. I'd like to make some statistics. I'm convinced it'll be much more useful than damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22719	The word has a National MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22720	Personally, I appreciate these efforts and the idea of accepting this. As the mother of an 18-year-old, I know the streams where the children are going today. I think we're halfway there, that we should think about not arming our children, that where we send them, we should ask them if they should go there, we should ask ourselves where our children are, we should talk to them since they were born, and then maybe somewhere there won't be a problem if my child without certain weapons or security means should leave the house. It is the message that we work through all fields with young people, through education, through the media, through force and idols, and through us politicians, by sending daily messages, that indeed with young people today should work maximum. This may be only half a step, if there are more advantages than damage, because I'm saying I don't know how sure they are that they're going to make the right move. I liked my fellow Giric's suggestion that we're not sure if it'll stay in the hands of that teenager or if he'll give it out of some joke to his friend. Anyway, I understand your move, but it remains to be careful.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22721	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22722	Just one request. When this amendment comes to pass, a legal-technical order should be done, as the amendment says "gas devices", and the law knows "gas sprays". It is necessary to write “gas sprays ” in order to make it absolutely clear what it is. I understand your concern, Mrs. Obradovic. My dilemma was exactly that from the first moment. She prevailed within me just the possibility of saving a life. I think all the MPs had this dilemma. As the father of a three-year-old girl, I understand that this child will one day just come home from school, even if it's used to attack by some stray dog. It's better if that kid has some spray than to come home eaten up or, God forbid, something more. It's the only thing that prevailed in me, but it remains the task of the MUP to closely monitor the use and abuse of all this. I'll be the first to come before you if I'm wrong, if this turns out to be a mistake asking us to correct this part of the law and it won't be hard for me to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22723	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22724	I just wanted to tell Mrs. Obradovic that this is not a law on family and children. We all care about our children. It's not a theme if we're giving the amendment now, we're not worried about our kids, we're going to let them go with spray on the street. My kid's 18 years old. Her child is 18 and can use gas. My son is 14 years old, but God forbid, I think you've shown Mr. Minister how it works in parliament and I'm glad that someone accepts the amendment of the Democratic Party unlike your colleagues who, as a rule, avoid them or come in some magical way, the same amendment from other parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22725	You spent twice a minute. You took two minutes at the beginning. I'll give you that in the end. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22726	I just want to say that I think every law here cares about our children. Every law we pass is in the perspective of caring for Serbia, taking care of our children, and I observe it that way. Your child won't be able to carry it for two more years. The son of counterpart Obradovic, according to our proposal, without amendments, could. I certainly believe that you and she and I care that our children and all the other children of this country are safe. I was president of the Children's Care Committee, so it's natural for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22727	Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 28th amendment. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22728	I thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, the representatives of the Ministry, we must indeed be completely open and honest here, not only me and my colleague Stefan Miladanovic, but the entire parliamentary group is a little surprised that no amendment has been accepted that represents, in fact, only what is meant by the precision and clarification of Article 28, because indeed the text of Article 28 is quite unspeakable and confusing, leaves the possibility of a completely different interpretation and the question is raised in practice so that it can be applied in practice at all. What's this about? Article 28, as proposed, reads - if a natural person holding arms in category B ceases to exist in some of the conditions laid down in Article 11. The question is, who needs to stop? To cease to exist physically or to cease to exist any of the conditions laid down in Article 11. So there really is an absolute indiscretion here. Therefore, our amendment proposes something that implies a complete clarification and precision of the same provision, of the same member, of the same text, and says very clearly – if the natural person holding the weapons in category B ceases to have some of the conditions laid down in Article 11 of this Act, the competent authority will decide to withdraw the armed list of weapons and ammunition. So, just an explanation, nothing more. I really ask you that if anything else, at least because of those who will do this in practice and how they will have nothing at least because of those who will do this in practice and how they will have it in application and that we do not leave the possibility of any or abuse or error to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22729	The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22730	There was really one editorial error when the law was drawn up and you're right that was completely illogical. What happened? We have adopted amendments we have not looked at, believe you see that we have accepted amendments from all parliamentary groups, we have not seen who is proposing it at all, because it is important for us only to correct mistakes and we have already accepted amendments submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Vesenović, Snezana Malović, etc., and which is identical in the text I consider as accepting your, is identical text, is the same essence and thus changes everything that you have said and that changes. So, yes, let me say, in the same text is the proposed amendment, we accepted the first one in a series we didn't skip, so now that we don't accept one from the authorities, and we're not going from the opposition or vice versa, we haven't looked at any of the MPs, we've been doing professional services, I've just had suggestions that what you said we have a more functional law, but what you said is totally standing I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22731	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22732	In any case, thank you, Mr. Minister, given the understanding that you have shown when it comes to the clarification of this text because we have also found that the amendment of colleagues Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic have almost identically identified the problem. So that amendment applies to this amendment, and I really thank you for this understanding. It has been very useful to react, and on your part very well that the amendment is accepted does not have to be an amendment to our or the SPS parliamentary group, it is important that we have improved the quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22733	The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Before I give you my word, I'll just use the right, according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform all of you that today we will be working after 18.00 hours because of the need to pass the laws from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22734	I thank Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, just for further clarification, we have submitted an amendment that actually speaks in a clearer way about the same matter as the promoter did, as counterpart Nedja Jovanovic reads what article 2 of Article 28 looks like. It says – if they cease to exist some of the conditions laid down in Article 11 paragraph 1 point 3, 4, 5, 6 8. And on the 9th of this law, the competent authority will come up with a solution to the removal of an armed list, weapons and ammunition from a natural person holding a weapon in category B. It's a good thing we agreed. It's the same point, we just convinced what Vlad gave. Otherwise, it's a very nice amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22735	Thank you. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the People's Parliaments Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the 29th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic submitted to the 29th amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22736	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Our amendment refers to attitude 2 that says -- a person who has acquired weapons based on heritage can, without compensation, hand over weapons owned by the Republic of Serbia. If it does not, it shall be required to apply for weapons registration within six months of the date of acquisition or to disable or alienate it. If the heir to the weapon is a minor, this rock is beginning to run on the day of the adulthood, and we have suggested that it be added – until the weapon is kept in the organization unit of the Ministry by the place of residence of a minor at the time of determining the successor. He's referring to the heir to the weapon. According to the draft law, there remains a legal gap with regard to the holding of weapons inherited by a minor. Since the law stipulates that a minor will have the right to hand over a weapon or to disable it or to apply for registration only after his adulthood, the question arises – what happens in the period until his age, with weapons? We believe that this issue should be regulated, and we have proposed an amendment. I'd use another suggestion by the end of two minutes, because you'll probably explain the application of this law by sublaw. I would suggest that the weapon remains in the MUP, if the person submits a request, not obtains approval for carrying that weapon, assuming it's some expensive piece of weaponry, that it is not surrendering, or destroying, but that it can be in the soup depot until the moment of the sale of the weapon, which I think if someone inherited it and can't bear it, why lose the value of the inheritance he received from that donor or from the one he inherits. I think that would be logical and that such weapons wouldn't have to, by law, surrender or destroy themselves, but wait for the buyer to come along and sell it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22737	The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22738	Now there's only been a reverse situation. We accepted the almost identical only more precisely formulated proposal of MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Velimir Stanojevic, who said that the person who acquired the weapons and categories B and C on the basis of the heritage could hand over the weapon to the property of the Republic of Serbia. If it does not do so, it shall be required to apply within six months of the date of receipt for the issue of a weapons list or a request for the registration of a weapon, or to report the holding of a weapon, or to incapacitate or alienate it. So all possible scenarios. If the heir to the weapon is a minor, this deadline begins to run from the day of adulthood. If the successor does not act in the manner laid down in the position of the 2nd member, the inherited weapon shall be transferred to the property of the Republic of Serbia. So it's also covered by what you said, just more precisely defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22739	Thank you. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly appointed by MPs Stefan Miladanovic, Milisav Petronijevic and Nenad Milisavljevic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 31st amendment. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22740	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, I think you should accept this amendment as well. Namely, this is article 31 on the missing weapon procedure. In fact, you predicted that a man who notices the disappearance of a weapon has 48 hours to report a missing weapon. In Article 30, a member before this, you've predicted that if someone finds any weapons, they must immediately report that they've found a specific weapon. So, there's a disharm between this. I don't know why we'd leave any 48-hour deadline to report a weapon missing. It's a process in which a certain crime can be re-produced. In fact, we believe and have submitted an amendment that anyone who notices that the missing weapon he owns must immediately report that the weapon is missing. It could be that it's a really harmless situation, that he lost by mistake, that he's around. However, I think that, as the Ministry of the Interior and we as MPs, who want to make this law better, in this case we must start from being able to commit a certain crime with the weapons that have disappeared. That's why we propose this amendment immediately to report a weapon missing by the one who noticed that the weapon was missing. I think we're gonna make this law better, and we can warn that another crime happens within 48 hours of you predicting that someone has time to report missing weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22741	Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22742	During the debate, in principle, we have noticed that this 48-hour deadline may be too long and we have provided for an amendment to the Defence and Home Affairs Committee that says it is required that anyone who notices the disappearance of the weapon be obliged to report it immediately, no later than 24 hours. We put this on for a specific burden of proof. You know, when you find a weapon, you don't have to prove anything, you just report it, you can call on the phone and say, "Here's where I found the weapon and that's it." The owner who loses his weapon will not comply with the provisions of the laws imposing measures on the keeping of weapons, means unconsciously, effectively handling weapons, will still have to make certain explanations as to why. Secondly, when you say it right now, it's just a matter of arbitration of interpretation. Someone says you're not right now, you called in an hour later, then you're in trouble with the criminal provisions. We'd better put on 24 hours. Of course, I hope that in those 24 hours no one, after all, will be responsible for the weapon's owner, he's responsible for the weapon. It's in his interest to do it the second he notices it. So I think this is just a little more precise norm.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22743	Thank you. Maria Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22744	Thank you. Just for a little while. This is also one of the compromises as said by the minister that we both made on the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs suggested that this form with this supplement, so Mr Sutanovac suggested together with a group of MPs to be reporting immediately, we added, that is, in the next 24 hours, because you must admit that we all do not watch every moment where our weapons are, for those who have. But we left those 24 hours as an additional possibility, as the minister explained. I'm just sorry none of you were on the Defense and Home Affairs Committee this morning, where we've been considering amendments and where we've also figured out all of this, and then the debate would have been a lot easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22745	Vladimir Djukanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22746	There can be a very interesting debate about these deadlines, because you know both the second and third deadlines, whatever we adopt the question is whether it's really going to happen that way. I believe that people are safe and that anyone who notices that his weapon is missing will immediately access it to report it. What if he's not a lifesaver? How will you know if he reported it immediately or if it's within 48 hours? He can come in ten days and say, "Here's the moment, now I've noticed that my gun is missing." So it's very complicated how to set a deadline like this, but I agree more with this provision in 24 hours, so we hope that people are safe enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22747	Dejan Nikolic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22748	We accept the argument. It's important we cut the deadline. I don't think it should come from conscience, but from caution, which is why we simply submitted the amendment to the person who notices that the weapon is missing immediately report it. We thought so - as soon as he noticed. It's hard to prove, but if you start from the premise of precaution, I think it's a good thing. We'll take it in 24 hours. I expect them to accept the amendment of the committee now. If you don't accept, we'll vote in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22749	The word is Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22750	Just for a little while. My colleague Obradovic said we don't control it all the time, so when we find out... So it's not the idea that someone has to control it every day. The idea is that when he finds that the weapons are gone, he reports it at that moment. After all, it is his highest interest to report it. I'm sorry Mr. Djukanovic doesn't listen. So if someone finds out he's got no weapons, that weapon might already be owned by someone who's committing a crime. That someone can put that weapon back where they took it tomorrow if they don't report it. So if he's late for that, he's in trouble. The one who owns the weapon, who finds it gone, is in trouble every day as much trouble as possible because probably someone who alienated it, stole it, or whatever it is, there's a great chance it's used to commit a crime. That's why it's stimulating for citizens, and those who don't feel it, then we'll legally give them up to 24 hours, so let me tell you, Minister, there's no procedure in the sense that he has to explain something. When he says - I'm out of weapons, he reported it, and then the procedure can take one and two and 15 days to investigate, but at that moment you're registering in the MUP that the weapon is on the street, maybe on the free market, and you can already let the dispatch look for that weapon because it can appear somewhere in a trade chain and so on. It's an idea, not to investigate whether that man lost it, lost it. It's now the second pair of sleeves completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22751	Minister Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22752	Consideration should be given to the possibility that the act of reporting is abuse. So maybe there are people who are going to abuse that possibility, and that's why I said that we still need to determine because someone can deliberately report the murder weapon missing, and that he committed a crime with that weapon. They're just possibilities that need to give us an extra deadline, but we understand each other in terms of...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22753	The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. Does the minister accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22754	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22755	National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic, Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 31st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22756	I thank the president. Just briefly to explain the purpose of our amendment and to which Article 32's views concern. Article 32 regulates arms handling and weapons giving at the service. We were dealing with positions 3, 7 and 8 that exist and we added a new article 10. In fact, Article 3 states that hunting weapons can be given to a hunter in the course of the hunt if he himself has an armed list for that kind of weapon. We have proposed, in the course of the hunt, that they should be deleted. In Article 8, which defines the part relating to the provision of arms at the service if the owner is a legal person, that he must be present during the duration of the service. We have defined that if he is not present for the duration of the service, he can give weapons at the service with the application of the competent authority and, of course, we have added a new position on the 10th, which is – the appearance of the application and the procedure of handing out weapons at the service is prescribed by the minister. We have proposed these amendments because we believe that the provision of hunting and sports weapons at the service is allowed in most European countries without the presence of owners. Since hunting weapons are given on behalf of persons with a gun list for that type of weapon, it is unwarranted for the service to be only in the presence of the owner. In most cases, weapons are taken into service only if, for their own weapons, there is no temporary possibility of being used, possibly there is no proper caliber, it is repaired and so on. It is obvious that this purpose of the law proposal is contained in preventing legal norms from being played by the purchase of arms registrations by the competent authority, is already being treated as a service of arms. This purpose could also be achieved in a way more favourable to the owner of the weapon by allowing the service of the weapon with the application or confirmation of the competent authority. That's why we added a new attitude 10. We think that this way the rights of the gun owner would not be violated, and the competent authorities, i.e. Organizational units of the MUP would be able to monitor the movement of weapons. I thank you again for accepting this amendment. It says that we were on the same task when it comes to making better and better-quality text of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22757	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22758	As for Article 32, if I understand correctly, the very essence of our proposals has already been accepted here. I commend my LSV colleagues and the will and ability of the ministry to accept it because it contains better and compromise solutions for further users of weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22759	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Chapo.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22760	Thank you, President. The LSV Group addressed the amendment to Article 35, which defines the weapons of foreign security services, where we deleted the word "short", i.e. In the bill, it is defined that representatives of foreign security services must carry short arms. We have proposed by amendment that the word "short" be deleted for a very simple reason. Because, if we take into account that there are differences in the work of foreign security service representatives who are accompanied or directly protected by representatives of state or representatives of international organisations during transit or visit to the Republic of Serbia, we believe that this solution would make it much more useful for this law to have a better quality and better sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22761	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22762	I thank you, President. Dear Minister, our amendment has the same motive as the amendment to Article 28. Therefore, the motive for submitting this amendment is exclusively a correction of the text of the law in order to make the text of this article more practical, clearer, in order to avoid indeterminateness, confusion, and hence certain consequences in practice. Why? Because the text states that members of foreign diplomatic and consular representations in the Republic of Serbia are applying to the ministry responsible for foreign affairs, which is provided to the ministry. Now the question is which one? It's just the Ministry. Then it is said -- the ministry responsible for foreign affairs determines the existence of reciprocity. It's important here now just to clarify that it wouldn't happen, if anything else, then to interfere with any jurisdiction or error in legal traffic. That is why the text of the amendments that we have submitted in this direction and contributes to making this text of Article 36 perfectly clear, so we said that members of foreign diplomatic and consular representations in the Republic of Serbia are submitting a request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which the request provides to the MUP. So this is just an explanation, and I think, if someone has not submitted the amendment before us that you have accepted, that this amendment should be accepted, if for nothing else, then because of the clarification of the article's text itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22763	The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22764	I agree with the essence. We, however, accepted on Article 9, one of the amendments by a colleague who said the short name of the interior ministry within the meaning of this law, which is referred to as the ministry in the text below, so we explained what it refers to, to which term the ministry refers. So, I agree with what you said, we just did it at the beginning of the debate and that's the only reason we don't accept it. Otherwise, what you said stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22765	Thank you. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry of the Interior, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I suggest that, despite the fact that we may have gotten a little tired because this amendment debate was quite substantial by now, let's imagine a little bit about our amendment to Article 36, and here's why. In the opinion of the 3rd article, it reads this way: “Extremely, foreign nationals in the Republic of Serbia can be granted the entry, export, supply, holding and carrying of weapons with the approval of the Minister.” It seems to us, gentlemen, that the content of this attitude provides for the very broad powers of the minister with regard to the approval of foreigners for these types of actions. Then I read the amendment to the government. Why can't our amendment still be accepted? We had to today at least one amendment "expect" in this case, attitude 3 and, behold, the Government says - the said provision regulates the procedure of bringing, carrying out and similar weapons in cases of giving or receiving weapons to members of delegations of other countries and similar cases. All right, I also think there should be an exception to what the previous members of the law say. But, gentlemen, the approval of a minister in some cases that is not relevant to what is stated here in the light of the refusal of our amendment would, if such a formulation is accepted, also be treated as legal behaviour. Then I think we should think about preventing some potential abuse, no matter who is at that point the minister who gives such a kind of approval, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22767	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Stefana Miladanovic, Srdjan Dragojevic and Nenad Milosavljevic together submitted the title above the 38th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Minister, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22768	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22769	Thank you. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic submitted together to the 38th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 38th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric jointly submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Velimir Stanojevic submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22770	In Article 42, we tried to point out a little discrimination between a legal person and a natural person. I'll try to give you an example. Let's say that a truck full of weapons starts from the UK and goes all the way to our border, without any permission to transport, because these weapons and ammunition don't represent dangerous matter, and we can't even transport under the new law to an airport sold to natural persons without a license from Panchev to Belgrade, without reporting transportation from the sender's face, that is. Legal face. We believe that there is some discrimination between a natural and a legal person, that natural persons can carry an unlimited amount of weapons and ammunition, it is not defined by this law, without the permission of a competent authority, while legal persons must report transportation for each piece of arms and ammunition. It might not be bad here in this situation to exclude weapons belonging to the "D" category, for which no procurement approval is required, nor is their registration mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22771	Thank you. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Minister, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22772	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22773	Thank you. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22774	Thank you. I'm glad you accepted the Committee's amendment. We had a debate the other day, in fact, the idea was to make a very precise and administration of the Ministry of the Interior and in time to declare when someone submitted a request, or consent to the transport of weapons and ammunition through Serbia. So far, in the bill of law, there has been no deadline. We think that the deadline is now, if I'm not mistaken, we said 14 days, two weeks, and it's in my taste long. You're going to say that you're probably swamped by these demands, so that's the problem, but I was just trying to explain that we need to relieve the administration, that management is doing things that are essential. This time, we consider this to be a more important matter than simply issuing permits to carry, or own a weapon. Surely a better solution has been accepted, and I'm glad. I believe that, as you said, in some earlier period, we're going to run an analysis, and we're going to improve this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22775	Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22776	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry of the Interior, respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, ballistics profile of the shot fired, here, this is now the third time today to try to convince both our guests and our guests, as well as the MPs here that this innovation should be introduced into our proposal for a law on arms and ammunition. Here I will try to add a few arguments concerning this innovation, gentlemen. This electronic database of ballistics prints already exists in some countries, here, for example. In the United States, New York and Maryland, Great Britain also exists. So there are some world flows that I think in this area and we should follow, especially when we're preparing brand-new bill proposals. Or, well-respected gentlemen, for example. It is the latest trend in ballistics and I don't see why we shouldn't follow those latest trends and flows. This is how I figured it out. So our approach to this question is this – we should also act preventively through some solutions that now concern the possibility of solving crimes easier. Contrary to an approach that provides easier solving crimes, the government, in an explanation, puts an argument to the cost of weapons owners. That's how I read it in an explanation. Dear gentlemen, if someone wanted to go into some extreme malignancy, perhaps he could say – well wait, gentlemen, this government is not aimed at solving crimes. I'm just curious, is it possible, gentlemen, that the cost of having a weapon is a stronger argument than solving crimes, the Honorable president?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22777	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22778	I took five seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22779	That's right. Thank you. Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic-Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs is on the floor. Minister, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22780	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22781	Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Minister, do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22782	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22783	Thank you. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22784	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry of the Interior and respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I feel that we should reconsider the possibility of accepting our amendment to Article 48, which is now an opportunity to adopt our amendment to Article 1 of this Bill, which concerns the introduction of a new term in our proposal for legislation that we are discussing today, which is the making of weapons. We propose entering point 12) into Article 48 in point 1. This point 12 would read: “a natural person who, for himself alone, makes a weapon capable of firing ammunition at gunpowder thrust. ” Since we have already had one experience here today that the subsequent minister still concludes that one of our previously reasoned amendments should be accepted, I would like to propose to Minister Stefanovic that he also accepts the one that would have the effect of accepting our amendments to Articles 1 and 3. If, honored gentlemen and respected presidents of the National Assembly, the minister would have come to accept this amendment, then I ask you to record it in your booker, for that reminder in the voting day, that the MPs of the SNS vote not only for that amendment to Article 21, that it also be lost somewhere, not, etc., but also for the adoption of our amendments to Article 1, to Article 3, and also for this Article 48, which I am just, the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, now, I hope, in exactly two minutes, without a single second of failure, to present.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22785	Well done. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Minister, do you accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22786	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22787	Thank you. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22788	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished guests and guests from the Ministry of the Interior, respected presidents of the National Assembly, amendment to Article 49, and Article 49 concerns now certain criminal provisions, as well as Article 48, it is our last amendment to some of the members of this Bill on Arms and Ammunitions. We suggest adding a new point 27 to Article 49) which would read: "which does not have the authority of the competent authority to produce weapons". I remind the MPs, especially those who may not have been able to send out the most carefully, but they are following this argument we have made regarding the introduction of a new term through Article 1, that we have suggested that an unsecured field, which I think deserves the attention of the promoters, in this particular area, in this matter, is nevertheless covered by these proposed amendments to the arms and ammunition bill. I'm happy to say that by adopting, for example. and this amendment, as well as the amendment to Articles 1, 3 and to Article 48, we have voted in favour of this bill, as well as, gentlemen, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I will vote in favour of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act and thus, I think we will contribute to certain areas that seek legal solutions in our country in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22789	Minister Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22790	The truth is that this area of weapons production is not well enough solved in our country by all existing legal solutions. Unfortunately, in the Ministry Act, making or producing weapons and ammunition are not classified in our jurisdiction. So by making it clear that in any way we give authority in which we have no right, we would be in a legal breach, and that is the only reason why the Ministry cannot accept such a single norm, but we certainly advocate that this area be better resolved. What the Criminal Code forbids, to say anyone who does not have the authority in terms of, say, people who work in the dedicated industry, so anyone who makes weapons or amends it at home will be punished in some way by the Criminal Law, but what is certainly coming for us in the National Assembly is that this area is detailedly regulated by one law, as well as by amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, this area is being assigned, whether it will be the Ministry of Interior or it will be the Ministry of Business, it remains to be examined to see what is more comprehensive, because transport, or production and transport of arms fall into one of the business activities that brings a lot of money to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22791	Thank you. The 50th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. Minister, do you accept?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22792	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22793	Members of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Miladanovic and Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branko Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Velimir Stanojevic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Minister, do you accept?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22794	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22795	Thank you. National MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. Do you want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 53rd amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. Meanwhile, the Defence and Home Affairs Committee announced a session, so we have reason to rest. Thank you. We'll continue at 15.20 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22796	We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Fire Protection Act You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Katarina Rakić, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenković, Mr Djejan Radenković, Mr Marko Đurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Dr. Aleksandra Tomić, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavićić, Dejan Nikolić, Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanović Koraić, Goran Bogdanović and Dr. Blaže Bradić, as well as the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. You have received a report from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, legislation, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic and Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Nikolic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22797	Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Minister, first thanks for accepting this amendment. I also talked in principle about this being one of the main reasons why I would vote for this law. Namely, from the premise that education, education, descriptiveness, is the best prevention. To clarify, there is no criminal provision that can be more effective than education and not only in the protection against fires, I speak and code, from your resolution of the Law on the Protection of Traffic, or on the Safety of Traffic, I am also talking about the protection of the environment, I am speaking in all areas of social life, in fact education and education principles that should be guided by the adoption of this law. In Article 6a. You did bring one, I say, quite a well-defined member, you predict, but I think my amendment has defined something a little better, because you say that preschool institutions and school institutions are bound to establish a plan of education. My amendment says that it must also be implemented, because if it remains to be established, I think that plan would remain as one, if I am not mistaken, 400 strategies that Serbia has, more than half of them collect dust. Like this, I just think we make a commitment to both preschool and school institutions that this plan that they establish and implement. Once again, it is a principle that I will strongly, always support and support in the congregation. It is the principle of education and education, as well as the premise of prevention of protection in both fires, and safety in traffic and environmental protection in other areas of social life in Serbia. So, thanks again, and that's one of the reasons why I'm going to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22798	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. I'm asking the Minister to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22799	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22800	I find the minister has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. I'm asking the Minister to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22801	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22802	I find the minister has accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic put together the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Momo Colakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22803	Dear Vice President, I'd like to ask because we don't hear much of anything to regulate the issue of soundiness in the O.R. About the amendment, I just want a few sentences. Dear Vice-President, respected ministers with associates, honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group will give full support to the law and voting day, that is, to vote in general today. I am grateful to my parents, especially Mr. Miladinovic, for the effort and effort they have made to make better solutions regarding the security of citizens, especially our children. On the other hand, we also owe our gratitude to the government and the ministry headed by Mr Stefanovic for accepting the initiative of the part of the people, i.e. citizens, in order to regulate the security relations that regulate the law. Such proposals concerning this amendment are also available in other places which are technical and other nature, and I think it would be very good that, in relation to the preparation of sublegal acts, there are suggestions which have been given by certain professional organisations, especially fire companies, fire alliances and experts, and that sublegal acts are more specifically governed by certain things that have been regulated and proposed in this amendment, and in some other points of this law. That is why it is my suggestion that these proposals and special consultations with these promoters should be taken into account in the preparation of sublegal acts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22804	Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22805	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22806	I find the minister has accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22807	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22808	I find the minister has accepted this amendment. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all the points of the agenda of this session, under Rule 87 of Rule 5 of the National Assembly's Rules of Procedure, I hereby set Friday, February 20, 2015, starting at 1600 hours, as the Day for voting on the agenda of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-20-0.u22809	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 160 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, I put the Bill of Weapons and Ammunition to the vote in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – no one, with abstention – voted 20 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move to the decision on amendments, I remind you that the components of the bill have become amendments: to Articles 4, 9 and 17, to the name of Articles 26 and 32, 35 and 53, which were jointly submitted by Members Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olen Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Cappo; to Members 5, who were jointly submitted by the MPs Zoran Živković and Vladimir Pavićić; to the Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Croatia; to the Members of the People of the Republic of Croatia, to the Members of the Republic of Croatia and to the Members of the Republic of Croatia and to the Members of the Republic of Croatia, together with the Members of the Members of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one, with abstention – has voted 168 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 169 out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 167 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 162 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Neđo Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 171 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 160 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Miladanovic, Milisav Petronijevic and Sinisa Maksimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – voted 172 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Stefana Miladanovic, Gordana Topic and Sinisa Maksimovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 161 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 162 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 12th amendment were submitted by MP Dragan Šormaz and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Zeljko Sušec submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 175 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the title above Articles 17 and 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 176 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 176 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 19 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Stefan Miladanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 172, no one, abstentioned – one, voted five out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dubravka Filipovski, Zlata Djeric and Velimir Stanojevic together submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 29th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 31st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Shormaz. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 176 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title above Articles 38 and 38 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 176 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 38th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 170 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Velimir Stanojevic submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 173 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 166 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 44th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 174 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academy member Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 49th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 50th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dubravka Filipovski and Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 171 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Stefan Miladanovic and Milisav Petronijevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidic, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic and Dr. Blaža Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 168 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear MPs, I received a notice from the National Assembly to adopt several amendments to the text of the Bill's proposal to the situation set out in Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, namely that the adoption of these amendments, led to the need for the committee responsible to submit new amendments that bring the amendments adopted to one another, as well as the text of the draft law. I therefore set a 10-minute break and ask that the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately and to submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report of the Committee's session will be held in Hall I or II, which is free. I'll see you in ten minutes. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 154 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. You have been presented with amendments to the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 21. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -151, no one, with abstentions, has voted, is not a total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 26. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 150, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted seven out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, submitted an amendment to Article 47. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -148, against -no one with abstentions - there is no vote of nine of the total 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill of arms and ammunition to the vote, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 157 against - no one with abstentions - there are none who have not voted out of the total 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on arms and ammunition. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Fire Protection Act I am putting to the vote the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 157 against - no one with abstentions - there are none who have not voted from the total 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no vote of 156 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against -one, the abstentions - there is no vote of 156 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -two, against -one, abstentions - no, 155 of the 158 MPs present in total did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 158 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 158 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted 158 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 37, the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I am putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -10, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People’s MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that, by adopting several amendments to the text of the bill, the situation in Article 165 arose. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of the amendments, gave rise to the need for the committee responsible to submit new amendments that bring the amendments adopted to one another, as well as the text of the draft law. Because of that, I'm setting a ten-minute break. Please meet the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and submit the necessary amendments, i.e. the report. The board sessions will be held in the open room 1 or 2. Please do it now and we'll start on time.
