ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that a quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists when the agenda is established if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 135 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26241	I would like to say a few words about the problem of the energy stability of the city of Novi Pazar. The power distribution of Novi Pazar performs its work on the territory of the town of Novi Pazar and the municipality of Tutin. The energy system extends on the ground which is mountain-mounted mountain-mounted with altitude ranging from 500 to 1,000 metres and with the expected long winters, high snowfalls, exposed occasionally to strong winds and atmospheric discharges, all of which adversely affect the functionality of the electrical grid. The 110 kilowatt power grid covers the Novi Pazar area, considered one of the most endangered transmission networks in the EPS system. The main power supply of Novi Pazar on 110 kilowatt voltage is used by the King’s direction. This power line was done many years ago according to the study that was in place. In the current situation due to a change in the number of consumers of Novi Pazar, it reaches one maximum, so it is very common that the voltage on the power line is below 100 kilowatts, and often falls below 90 kilowatts. The other two power lines from Valac and Sjenica are insufficient and unstable. The shortest way to say is that in the current energy loop in the event of a power outage of one of the power lines is an imminent reduction of power. The resolution of the power supply problem at 110 kilowatt voltage level is under the EPS's authority, but certain activities of local self-government can also help resolve this problem that citizens have. In particular, it is planned to build a New Pazar Three Trafo station, a power of 31.5 megawatts, and a local self-government contribution would be to provide a location of 50 acres with suitable access routes and located on the part where the current planning documents are regulated. The construction of this trafo station is planned at the part of the plot in the village of Mur, whose user is the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate. The area of this plot is one hectare and 98 acres. There are already buildings on it of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate, i.e. silos, but also a free part that is sufficient for the construction of the trafo station in question. The town of Novi Pazar addressed the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves in March 2014 with a request for the concession of part of the land on this plot to build a trafo station. We have been informed that the land in question is state-owned, and that the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate has only the right to use and that the decision to change users is made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and therefore to refer our request to the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. In January of the current year, the City Attorney's Office of Novi Pazar sent the Republic Property Directorate a request for transfer of public property rights without compensation, which requested that the necessary documentation be prepared as soon as possible and supplied to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a decision. No feedback received. So I have to ask the Republic Property Directorate - what about this request and when can we expect him to deliver to the Government for a decision? The city of Novi Pazar urgently needs a solution to this problem because we cannot plan or supply any future production plant without stabilising electricity supply. By building this trafo station, they would stabilise the city's energy supply and provide enough electricity for business facilities. It's a prerequisite for any investment, and we need to make this plan happen as soon as possible. There are indeed numerous investments in our area in the announcement, and we must welcome them ready. I want to welcome once again the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is doing a lot to raise all systems in our country, including Sandzak, where I come from and who I represent in this high house. That's what I want my question to be answered as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26242	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26243	Thank you, Chairman. I ask my question to the Minister of Labour and Combat Affairs, Alexander Vulin. In fact, we know well that around Europe, the world is marking these days the 70th anniversary of the victory over fascism in World War II. Minister Vulin and Russian Federation Ambassador Alexander Cepurin were in Adasevci on Saturday (April 18th) to mark the 70th anniversary of the Sremski front break. They said it all well there, but I ask Minister Vulin does he think he's defending the liquids of World War II only on words or he thinks he's doing something about everything that's been going on with monuments that have been marked in some places for 70 years, that we can really boast about, because it's a single fluid we can't and we don't need to be ashamed of, but we should boast about it? In fact, at that breakthrough of the Sremski front, he spoke beautifully that we would preserve the liquids of World War II. But how they store World War II's fluids is about destroying the monuments, especially here, I mean the material destruction of the monuments. Namely, I'll show you a picture of how a monument was destroyed on the Irish crown. Many passersby have seen what he looks like in the last few days. The material value of the copper relief that has been stolen so far is enormous. The artistic value is even higher, and its historical and anti-fascist value and symbolism are invaluable. All of this should be more than enough reason for the authorities to finally discover and punish thieves. It's hard to believe that someone could have easily and undetectedly carried an eight-foot-long copper relief and that the police didn't react there and that, after all, they didn't see it. The autonomous province of Vojvodina does not have the authority to rebuild those monuments, of course, by preserving the liquids, but the Dukes are aware of what happened in World War II, as far as we've given these victims, is ready and has provided money to rebuild these monuments, but, I say once again, there is no jurisdiction. I ask Minister Vulin – is he only ready to praise the liquids of World War II or does he think and do something about it? In such a situation, it is not only a monument on the Irish crown, in such a state, to say no, to a difficult, state that is in some way truly humiliating to those who fought in both the Bezdan and the Sirig, and also to the Irish crown. I will once again say that two years ago, between 14th and 17th September 2013, a bronze 400kg plate was stolen, and the destruction and humiliation of the mention of "Freedom" on the Irish Venice. All this time, the state has not responded, and the first thefts took place since 2013. I don't want to talk about writing out all kinds of graphite. I'm asking Minister Vulin again if he's ready to react? The news we're reading in all the newspapers is that our army will participate in the Victory Parade in Moscow. Our soldiers will march in front of President Putin, but I wonder if anyone is visiting those monuments that are next to us, who are truly destroyed and who have become our shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26244	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26245	Thank you. Before I ask two questions which I refer to the Minister of Agriculture, I must first conclude the following facts. The Veterinary Law was passed in 2005 and its amendments and additions followed in 2010. In fact, this law explicitly states in its article 51 – to prevent early detection, spread, monitoring, suppression or eradication of infectious diseases and the provision of a system of marking, registration, as well as traceability of animals, the Minister shall adopt an animal health care programme, in the follow-up to the programme of measures, no later than the end of January of the current year for which it is brought. On April 3rd, 2015, in "Official Messenger" No. 32 The Regulation laying down the programme of animal health measures for 2015 has been published. What does that really mean? This means that he was brought in with a delay of two months or in translation was literally lost one entire quarter in 2015. The same law, mentioned by the Veterinary Act, reads in Article 140 of Article 9 the following – for preventing, detecting, suppressing, eradication of animal diseases, means are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This further means that, in fact, for veterinary purposes, the protection of cattle in peasants is free of charge, i.e. in translation that the peasant is absolutely not subject to any financial obligations or, more specifically, the farmer pays absolutely nothing. However, on page 93 of the action programme, in the Regulation and in Chapter 7, paragraph 6, the following is said: funds for carrying out tuberculosis of 50% of the total price of 500 dinars are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. In that same Regulation, on page 92 of the 6th, the following is said: the means for carrying out the vaccination amounting to 40% of the total price for double vaccination amounting to 300 dinars for cattle and 220 dinars for sheep and goats are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. From here comes only one thing, and this is for the aforementioned tuberculosis and for the blue language the peasant pays preventive protection and that is something that is absolutely the opposite of that mentioned in the Veterinary Act. My questions, which I refer to the Minister of Agriculture, and based on what I presented in this opening statement, is the following. First, why is the Veterinary Law not respected, and why has the whole two months of the programme been delayed? It's a pretty wasted time. The second question is again - why is it not respected already mentioned the Veterinary Act and why are no funds provided for the prevention of livestock in the budget, although such a thing is explicitly stated by law? I would like to get answers to my questions as soon as possible, with an additional note that the sublegal act can never be contrary to the law, which here seems to be the case, because the regulation seems to me, when it comes to the Ministry of Agriculture on this issue, has stronger legal power than the Law on Veterinary. This rule clearly changes some of the terms of the law. So we're back in one paradoxal situation. Then, delay in adoption, the Regulation seriously calls into question the implementation of the measures mentioned above. It goes on to cover the service instead of working for a year, they only have nine months at their disposal. Finally, we have the following, and that is that the provisions of the Regulation provide partial means, and everything is contrary to the law, the implementation of the programme is questionable, because the peasant absolutely has no money, and we are all aware of that. Furthermore, this poses a serious threat to the safety of the health of the stock fund, which is not representative anyway, is in fact quite reduced, thus being threatened by the country itself's ultimate instance and security. What results is that the prevention of cattle is the cheapest and should be absolute in the first place, and in addition to that, it can be given an example that for some jobs, let's say the police, such as the military, such as health care, but also like veterinary, funds simply have to be provided, and the way they are provided is precisely in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. These were two specific questions addressed to the agriculture ministers, and I would like to have them answered as soon as possible, as they are of great importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26246	Thank you. The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26247	Ladies and gentlemen, last year's catastrophic floods that struck our country have discovered and have thrown huge amounts of municipal waste on the surface that has been uncontrollably throwing itself all around us for decades. A beautiful country like our Serbia has been transformed into a dump of modern consumer society products. Uncontrollable and wild water has not only discovered huge amounts of waste, it has primarily revealed the likeness of our habits, irresponsibility, haughtiness, indifference to protect our natural resources, all the beauty that we have at our disposal. Of course, nature sometimes knows that there is a severe blow, in a painful way to teach us that what we do is not good. The question is are we mature enough to learn, draw conclusions from these lessons, are we ready to change and take appropriate measures? Our paths, streets, rivers, streams, forests, mornings are still mutilated and covered with tons of plastic and other human hand products. And to ignore Chapter 27 regarding European integration and our relationship with ecology, the fundamental question arises – can we, for our sake of ourselves and the offspring, tolerate further destruction of all these God-given beauty and the offspring of borrowed nature? After all, science clearly says – the health of the nation is in direct correlation with the health of the environment. We often hear lax answers in public that it is necessary to tighten criminal policy. Of course, it is a solution for the unconscious and the boastful, but before that, rules must be introduced. Before that, the state is obliged to regulate this matter with adequate laws, so that each individual has a clear idea of how to delay municipal waste and how to control its path. On that behalf, I ask the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection to give us an answer on whether the law or project is being prepared that will finally begin to address the problem of pollution of nature from municipal waste, with special reference to rural areas and suburban settlements, given that this problem is so-so solved in the urban area, thanks to the communal companies that work there. The second question I ask the Ministry of Economy, or Mr Sertic. Given that the town of Kraljevo at the time of the collapse of the former Yugoslavia accepted more than 30,000 refugees and displaced persons, that many industrial complexes that were the backbone of economic development, that the unemployment rate was high, are there solutions to revitalising at least some enterprises such as Magnochrom, Car Factory, Autotransport, the natural resort of Mataruska and Bogotovačka Banja and others? Is there an investor's interest in new investments in this area? The third question is referred to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. Given that a whole range of villages and suburban settlements in the valley of West Morava, such as Mrsac, Adriani, Opanići, GICA and others, do not list them, all the way to Triestenik, suffer huge flood damage, and in particular we witnessed that last year, is it possible and can be implemented by designing Corridor 11, and especially the Preljina-Pojate joints, this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26248	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26249	Thank you, Your Honor. The first question would be asked by Minister Antić, although I haven't received an answer from him for more than a month, related to the coal procurement business from Romania, which cost the Republic of Serbia 60m euros, and neither was it obtained, delivered in full quantity, nor had to be used, since Kolubara's capacities were sufficient for this winter. Minister Antic, among other things, received a group of workers "Agroziv" from Zitist on January 28th of this year, who strike for almost a year, because they have not been paid their profits, and today it is out of a thousand workers, as many as last year, without any regulated status. Practically, they are unemployed, they are owed earnings for the last year, and the new owner who entered the company, the Belgrade firm Mibras, who entered the company in June of last year, refuses to talk to them and practically took over the factory from "Srbigas", which has managed the factory since 2010. They hired a certain number of workers, about 300 of them, but, I say, 450 workers and today are strikers, unfortunately, for more than two months, not in the premises of the municipality building in Zitiste, where they were up until February of this year, where they were kicked out and are practically on the street, without any rights, without social and health insurance and without any hope of having a job in the future. When Minister Antic received them on January 28th, he promised to organise a meeting within a few days, where representatives and the finance ministry and "Serbiagas", where an agreement would be made, saw how to regulate the obligations these people seek from the past and to see what will be in the future. Since there was no meeting today, one part of those workers came to me and asked me to ask that question here in the Assembly, hoping that at least through this institute we would get an answer from Minister Antic, who has not addressed them so far. The second question is for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture. A protest was held five days ago before the Serbian government's employees at a facility called Radio Yugoslavia or International Radio Serbia. It's about people who are doing a program in 12 world languages that is broadcast over a short wave and can be heard almost on the entire planet. The institution has been in existence for nearly 80 years, however, the adopted media strategy and media laws, no provision last June for what will happen to them. Although the Law has declared public interest in informing the world public about what Serbia is doing and thinking in world languages, no model for this institution to be involved in public service, for example, or in some other way, and since the privatisation deadline expires, employees are rightly concerned that at the end of that deadline they will remain on the street, that the International Radio Serbia will be shut down. They, by law, would not have had the right to severance in this case, Serbia would have lost one way to inform the world's public about what it is doing, perhaps today it is not as popular and as influential as 30, 40, 50 years ago, because of new technologies, but I think they deserve someone to talk to them, whether it is Minister Tasovac, whether it is the prime minister, and to say what will happen to this institution, to offer at least some solution, and not just silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26250	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26251	Thank you. I refer the question to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, or to the ministers who run these administrations, and as regards the assignment of a set of top boxing devices for a period of time, when we finally have digitisation in Serbia, based on the Regulation on establishing measures to support closer conditions in the division of criteria for the identification of vulnerable consumers in the award of vouchers for the subsidized purchase of digital television signal reception equipment. While this is good news for Serbia, that digitalisation is coming, information from the users of the social work centre is such that I ask both ministers to remove misunderstandings or to answer my next question. According to the previous regulation, Minister Rasim Ljajic said on 25 March this year that 137 have been reported. 384 citizens who have earned the right to free vouchers on top boxing sets. In March 19th, the new regulation, all those who have reported by that day, is believed to be the administration for getting a top boxing set and on March 19th is, of course, a new application form. What is the problem that has appeared in contacts between the social work centre and the users? Social assistance users have a three-month break in use, under the right to use social assistance. The Social Labour Centres have a clear, mandatory instructions from the ministry that the application can only be submitted by those users to help the social work centre that has a solution. For all those on break, it becomes virtually impossible to fill out the form at all, that's their information. Well, my question for both ministers, given that the deadline expired on 31 March 2015, that Minister Rasim Ljajic predicted that between 25 March and 31 March 150 thousand more people would be provided with a guarantee of the law of the Free Set Top Boxing Regulation. So, I ask both ministers to see, verify this information, in consultation with the social work centres, and to determine irrefutable, whether the misunderstanding left social assistance users, who would otherwise have the right to set top boxing without this right, so without being able to have vouchers and without being able to reach a top boxing set. It is not just a matter of the fact that it is several thousand or several tens of thousands of the most endangered citizens of our society living on the margin that respects the rights guaranteed and which, at the same time, are prevented from delivering a solution to social assistance. If they're on a break they don't have a solution, it's an interpretation of the social work center. Perhaps more important than the ministers delivering the question to me, it is more important that they deliver the answer to those to whom this good idea of the ministry should apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26252	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milan Latkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26253	I now refer my question to the Ministry of Culture and Information and to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Policy. The essence of my question included her exposure, her esteemed colleague, Olena Papuga. My question concerns the physical destruction and desecration of one of the most grand monuments of the folk-freedom battle, the "Freedom" monument located on the Irish garland on the Frust Mountain. Namely, this monument has been defiled in recent years by the theft of a copper relief worth more than 150,000 euros. The first theft was started in late autumn 2013, and at the end of 2014 a total copper relief was stolen from the north. In February of this year, half of the copper relief was stolen from the eastern side. On these reliefs that represented an extremely artistic work, the lives of citizens under occupation and scenes of war were depicted. I would like to remind you that the monument was erected in 1951, according to the plans of academic vair Sreten Stojanovic, and this monument is dominated by the obelisk with the female figure on top as a symbol of freedom in which the foot of the massive postament is a group sculpture of five partisans of the liberators. I'm a massive postament is a dangerous now already lacking copper relief. This monument to all of us from the space of Srema, Vojvodina, and Serbia is not only a symbol of freedom that is hard to conquer but also a vivid memory of all those people who have laid down their lives to free our country. It is a monument that has been visited for years by student excursions, entire families, hikers and all those who find themselves in Fruszko Gora. We are all well aware of its significance and historical value. That's why I'm an individual, and so are many of my friends, it's incomprehensible that someone can afford to steal something that's made up as a reminder of a great loss to freedom. That is why this is not only a matter of monuments and anti-fascist traditions but also a question of whether we forget our own tradition, our glorious past. This question is even more relevant when it is known that this year we mark 70 years since the end of World War II, as well as 70 years of victory over fascism and Nazism. I think it is unacceptable for Serbia as a country that cultivates and respects the benefits of anti-fascism to welcome such a significant anniversary with a monument that is almost no longer so, which as such exists for 64 years. Because of all the above, my question is – what will the Ministry of Culture and Information do to work on the restoration and protection of the "Freedom" monument on the Irish Venice, and what will the Ministry of Employment, the struggle in social policy in the area of martial arts, do to preserve this monument? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26254	Thank you. Since more than one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are not answering for the word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Professor Dr Zarko Obradović, Stefana Miladanovic, Ljiljana Nestorović, Professor Branko Djurović, Aleksandar Čotric, Aleksandar Senic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly need the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, proposals for the completion of the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft law establishing an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on development and co-operation, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 April 2015. Years. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested putting on the agenda the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed to him by the Ottoman Empire in the period from 1915 to 1922, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 20 April 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, abstentioned – did not vote 159 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the section of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Higher Education Act, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26255	Citizens and citizens of Serbia, this is the 12th time Mr Pavicevic and I are trying to put amendments to the law on higher education on the agenda, which envisions changes in terms of the introduction of the term and the institute "academic honesty". Academic congratulation is based on the independent performance of written works as well as on the strict respect of other people's copyrights. It's a very simple short bill. It's the result of various affairs, the misunderstanding of problems, the ugly stories of a crowd of diplomas that have been won in the last few years in dishonest ways, I can also say criminally. Many holders of these diplomas and titles are the bearers of the largest functions in this country and the minister of education said he does not have a legal mechanism to fight it. My colleague Pavicevic and I have promised to provide this legal mechanism and therefore we have given this proposal for a law supplementing the law on higher education. I repeat, the 12th time we're talking about it. I think he's been in congregation procedure for almost a year. He never got the majority support of fellow MPs, and that's a big problem, not only for this House of Commons, but for the whole country. To remind you that the problem with plagiarized PhDs and diplomats was also mentioned in the European Parliament's report, and I can inform you exclusively that following the testimony of many Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, this topic was an important topic and a decision on the election of a new president of the Academy of Sciences and Arts. Of course, there is no one there with a plagiarized degree, but the candidates in their performances committed themselves to fighting for academic integrity, namely to fight against all that could be disgraced by Serbian science, art and Serbian honor. I hope that this 12th time we will have more luck, that our arguments that are obvious, which are supported by both the local public and the academic public and the general public, and from, in some ways, the European Parliament. I can also tell you that the Academy of Science that you will now have a little bit more, that colleagues will have a little more sense to pass this law. He doesn't seem retroactive so there's no danger for your personnel who are already in... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26256	Time, Mr. Zivkovic. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 152 MPs from the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26257	I thank Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests from the government, honourable Members of the People, I have proposed to amend the Health Insurance Act and Article 41 relating to the examination and treatment of the diseases of mouth and teeth. Because the existing legal solution foresees that the insured persons are provided with the examination and treatment of the diseases of the mouth and teeth in an ambulatory, polyclinic and stationary condition, and by the age of 18, means children and youngsters. High school kids and students until the age of 26, then maternity parents, pregnant women, about the pregnancy 12 months after delivery. Then, the indication of the urgent dental protection of adults, in operations other than prosthetic jaw care, in kidney transplants, or heart surgery, examination and treatment of mouth and tooth diseases as part of pre-operative and post-operative malignancies treatment. This standardized health care, it is very restrictive towards the largest population, the working-age population population between 26 and 65 and the elderly, and that population that fills the RFO budget, means that this population does not have the right to repair and treat in relation to mouth disease and tooth disease. With a change like this, and I'll give you some data, we've evened it out. that all insurance companies in the Republic of Serbia, RFZO insurance companies have the right to treat their mouths and teeth on the RFZO burden for health insurance. And I will give you information that there are currently 7,186,274 residents in Serbia, up to 18 years of age is 1,427,272 people, and over 65 years are 1,250,316 residents. The group between the ages of 18 and 65 has 4.509,274 inhabitants, this last population group is excluded from the right to dental health care and my proposal referred to them. to that population, which has 4,509,000. It is evident that the health of the teeth of the population is in very poor condition, and you can see for yourself in your environment, especially in parts of Serbia that are beneath Sava and Danube, where the unemployment rate is higher, where people do not have the money to repair and treat their teeth privately, and I think this is very necessary to implement and to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26258	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 MPs out of a total of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on freedom of fear submitted by a group of 19 MPs to the National Assembly on 20 November 2014. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – 2 abstentions – there is no, 155 MPs did not vote from a total of 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on Article 92, paragraphs 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2014. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against – 1, abstentions – there is no, 157 MPs did not vote from a total of 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, based on Article 92(2) of Article 157. 2nd and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the draft law on cableways for taransport persons; a draft law on transport contracts in railway transport; a proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates; a bill on the approval of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of a border procedure for the Presevo-Tabanovce railway crossing. These are points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, of the proposed agenda. And a common principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment Act, insurance for unemployment and the draft law on the use of sign language. Does the MP, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, want to say? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – four abstentions – no, 24 of the 173 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we've made a statement about the motions to put on the... (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djurishic, when we're done laying down the agenda. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: it is your obligation to give me the word right away. There's not a session yet, Mr. Djurishic. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: How does it not exist? ) When we determine the agenda, there is a session. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under the urgent procedure of the proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and on a proposal for a merger of the debate under Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. The following is proposed for this session: Dn e n e d d 1 Proposal for a Law on Wires for Transport of Persons; 2. Proposal for a Law on Transport in Railway Traffic; 3. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of a border procedure for the Presevo-Tabanovci railway crossing; 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment; 7. Proposal for a law on the use of sign language. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, against – five abstentions – there are no, 19 MPs did not vote among the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, established the agenda of the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26259	The President-in-Office, you have injured a member of 103 who says, "The National MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and it is immediately after the infringement has been done." So, you had to give me the word right away, not ask for a vote to be concluded, because I wanted to advertise at that time the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 157, paragraph 2, which says that the National Assembly can decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws that are on the agenda of the same session, and are conditioned or the solutions in them are interrelated, with each proposal being decided separately. So, Dr Marinkovic, he suggested that five points of the agenda be combined, the draft law on cableways for the transport of persons, the draft law on air traffic contracts in three draft laws on the certification of the agreement between Serbia of the United Emirates on air traffic, between Serbia and China on air traffic and between Macedonia and Serbia on establishing a border procedure for rail transport, what do the solutions have to do with these five laws, one with the other? In what way are these solutions mutually conditioned? I'd like Dr. Marinkovic to explain that. What do two points of the agenda have to do with the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Employment, Insurance in the event of unemployment and the Law on the Use of Sign Language? They don't have anything to do with it. You cannot propose something like this under Rule 157 because it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Your obligation under Article 27. The rules of procedure are that you respect the Rules of Procedure and take care of its application. You've hurt all these members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26260	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. First, I, as chair of the session in this section, cannot break the Rules of Procedure because every MP has the right to propose a grouping of discussions on certain points of the agenda. Also, I think fellow Djurisic that even the National Assembly can't break the Rules of Procedure because she made this decision. The election of a MP is to vote for or against that decision, and the chairman is only one of the MPs, nothing more. So, I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to put every proposal on the agenda, no matter how pointless it is, if you think so. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Please vote. A colleague, Djurisic, is asking for the Parliament's statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure in the voting day. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Dejan Trifunović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Nena Tomović, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure: Zoran Ilic, Assistant Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport, Transport and Infrastructure; Mirjana Cizarov, Director of the Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia; Nada Kirbus, Assistant Director of Transport Affairs of the "Treasury of Serbia" a. d; Natasa Cerović, Advisor at the Directorate for Railways and Ivan Bozic, adviser at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Transport and Infrastructure. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 5 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open, a common principle and uniform search on the proposal of the Law on Wires for Transport of Persons; Proposal for a Law on Transport in Railway Traffic; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia establishing a Border Procedure for the Railway and Border Transition of Presevo-Tabanovce. Does the proposalor's representative, Professor Zorana Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26261	The Honorable Chairman, dear MPs and MPs, you have five draft laws ahead of you. There are three agreements and two laws. The two agreements are related to the signing of bilateral agreements between the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of Emirat and the Government of China, and regarding air traffic that should enable us to have better relations, greater efficiency and air liberalisation. I'll remind you that so far we've signed 97 bilateral air traffic agreements and that can only bring us good. I will also remind you that the Agreement with China was signed in December 2014 and the Agreement with the Emirates in 2009, and today I hope to see them after the debate and talks and we will adopt them Thursday after the amendment. Then, the agreement we consider very important is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on establishing a border procedure for the Presevo-Tabanovce railway crossing. For now, it is still valid until we adopt the 1996 agreement. We want to simplify the procedure, therefore, from customs and all others, so that this agreement simply allows for better communication and, of course, inaugurated compared to the 1996 period. There is also a proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of faces in front of you. It is the first time that Serbia has one such law and it is a law that should allow us to practically prevent any kind of unfair competition, but also to improve security. We have tried everything we need to define this law in order to satisfy these two basic principles, and also, given how much we want to develop tourism and how much we want to make certain revenues from it as a state, it is of great importance that this kind of bill is before Parliament and that we talk about it. The third and also important law is the draft law on rail transport contracts, an innovative law, since the 1995 law is currently in force, and you will agree, much has changed since 1995 to today. Of course, there are also the Law on Railways and other laws, which simply require us to bring this law into line with the current situation and with EU directives. What is very significant about this law is that this law also introduces an electronic paper, and in addition, this law introduces a stake sheet, where for the first time, for the first time, the records and those cars that are empty will be charged in this respect. I believe that in the debate we have today, but especially in the debate in particular when we have amendments, if all of this needs to be improved and I believe and I hope that we will adopt these laws together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26262	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26263	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Cooperation, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and the People's Parliament, today, in the context of this joint principle and uniform search for the first item of the agenda, we have just the proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of persons as a completely new bill, which in a unique way regulates the matter in question, which we seem to know, and what little we know, thanks to the partial processing of at least certain parts of the Law on Railways, in the Law on Public Skiing and in the Law on Public Private Partnerships and concessions, which contain only some general provisions, without their particularisation and which are as such quite insufficient for a systematic determination of matter that just seems to be such a bill. I think you'll agree with me that it's safe for us to have far more urgent things that deserve the same systematic arrangement as the matter of the cablemen themselves, and it seems to me that if someone were to look at all of this on the side, who is absolutely not familiar with our opportunities, I think you'd first think that we're so well-organized that we have nothing else to regulate, so now we're dealing with the cablers, because here we are, that's all that's left. Of course, it wasn't, it was a little joke. In any case, the first thing to think about is the very mention of cableways are our mountain centres, our ski centres on our ski resorts, and that on the Kopalnik, on the Old Mountain, and Tornik, and I sincerely hope that what is stated in the reasons for the adoption of this law and the analysis of the effects, which is that Zlatibor will also get new routes in some foreseeable period, with new cableways, and will return as such to the order of mountain centres, as for years ago it seems to me that it can be classified more in order of some other centres, but not mountain centers. I hope that it will also increase the capacity of cableways in general and that the regulation of this area and in a legal sense, but also in economic terms, will have its foothold in the proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of persons, which we are today discussing as the first item of the agenda. With several aspects of cableways, it is a rather complex system, and it is nothing new, which until the day of today, and especially until the day this law was passed, has not even been defined in any sense, so that we actually had nothing to do with what the wire represents, nor the definition of the cabler at all, and is now the same and defined as the system of public transportation of the person, consisting of infrastructure and subsystems designed, built and assembled for the purpose of transport. They are designed, they are made in accordance with standards and regulations and technical characteristics. What I would mention is, at least here is the most important and important thing in this bill is just making a security analysis, because it's something that must be priority and primary, which implies absolutely the existence of all the necessary conditions, therefore, the fulfillment of that safety segment for cableway and the environment facilities. There are also possible misunderstandings about the division of the cableways. Such a bill, since such a division of cableways is now taxed, explicitly states in the draft law itself, and that in its Article 4, it is determined that the Railways Directorate is the one responsible for keeping records of cableways, records of specific tow installations and all entities set out in this law, which affect the safety of the works of cableways. This bill also carried out what is important is the harmonisation of the rules in the area of cableways with a directive which, as such, states in an analysis of the effects that form an integral part of this bill, which refers to cableways for the transport of persons, and correctly concludes that such harmonisation is inevitable and primarily represents something that is primarily due to the reason why our country is undoubtedly on the path of membership in the EU, and the other reason is that it has introduced a new approach to the cablers and by introducing both technical and legal, but also economic newspapers in this area, as well as newspapers in the very structure of administrative bodies. I also hope that these rules should not be harmonised, as stated in the reasons for the adoption of this law and in the analysis of the effects of the application of the law, but are exactly what they are in line with harmonised European norms which have been adopted by the European Standardisation Committee and adopted by the Institute for Standardisation of Serbia as well as the Serbian Standard. At the very beginning of the presentation, I mentioned several laws, including the Law on Railways itself, which I had already said only partially, in part, and in a rather general way defines, or regulates wire matter. The fact is that they provide for an obligation to pass a special law that would first regulate the concept, or general material of cableways in general. That's exactly the bill we're discussing today as the first item of the agenda. It should primarily affect direct users of cableways who, for the first time ever in law form, allow their rights to be protected legally and all in accordance with European standards. In addition, the regulation of this matter should ensure not only the attraction of investment, I say not only, and thus encouraging the actual interest of domestic and foreign natural and legal persons to invest in the area of cableways, as stated in the bill itself, but it seems to me that it should take a step further, which is to make our country more attractive. Also, this proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of persons is given the possibility of giving concessions and a public-private partnership in the area of cableways for the provision of public transport services to persons, i.e. for the construction of cableways, but in this place, I will leave this painful and difficult topic called concessions for another debate when we talk about some other drafts of the law. Also, the good side of this bill is reflected in the fact that during the draft law, a working group was formed, that the participants of the working group were representatives of all the groups involved in the area of cableways, that a public debate was held on the draft law itself, and thus the possibility was given not only to the relevant, but also to all interested parties to deliver their opinions, to deliver their suggestions, to deliver their observations, that the text of this law itself appeared to me to be five discussions in five different cities. In addition, what is also good is that the text of this proposal for the Law on Wires for the Transport of Persons has also been discussed by the Office for European Integration, and whose basic obligation is to comply with the rules of the EU. Since a small number of amendments have been submitted to this bill, which is to be noted, it is certainly an indicator of the quality of this same bill. In any case, the SPO parliamentary group and the Democratic Party of Serbia will support the bill in the voting day. As for the 2nd item of the agenda, the draft law on transport contracts in railway transport, I must admit that, as a lawyer, it will be very difficult for me to get used to some newspaper on this issue, since everything I learned about in these contracts, I learned from that 1995 security law, which has been applied as a republican since 2003, and under the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter, which is taught at the fourth year of the Faculty of Law in the framework of commercial and commercial law. What is essential is that it also needs to be adapted to a newly formed, truly altered, state that reality confirms. It is certain that since the entry into force, at this moment, still such a valid law has changed, so to this day, many opportunities have changed. The rules in this area, in general in the areas of rail traffic in developed European countries, have evolved greatly since some earlier years. Today we are talking about a new concept of regulation of railways, which involves not only new terminology, but also involves new entities. Relations are arranged differently, not only in the area of the conclusion of these transport contracts, but what is more important in the scope of the implementation, i.e. the execution of the rail transport contracts themselves. Moreover, the necessity of a different arrangement of matter that we are discussing stems from the fact that we, in the previous National Assembly, have also passed two important laws. It is the Law on Railways and the Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways, and they are now in line with EU safety regulations. The transport contracts in railway transport have always been specific, as I mentioned earlier, both in terms of the very form of their conclusion and their specificity is seen in terms of enforcement. What characterizes them is necessarily conditioned to change the real opportunities of the images on the agenda of the arrangements of these specific contracts and to maintain today's opportunities. As we all know, today's opportunities aren't identical, they're far from the ones that were 80s or earlier, like the '70s. Requests for information to be provided both on the occasion and during the journey have been drastically changed. Ticket reservations aren't the same anymore. Transport is well separated from infrastructure management. Today, several consecutive carriers can exist in one transport contract, then the exercise of the right in cash amounts. The fees have not been expressed for a long time, as reported in German stamps etc., the termology is obsolete. I think I've already mentioned it, etc., that I don't necessarily list all the things that the modern state of things has denied. Of course, many things that present opportunities do not know need to be changed, and that is exactly the result of this bill that we are discussing today. Only improving the rail system, in fact, its integration into the transport services market, as well as the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system, for which I personally must say, I am quite concerned, because according to the current state of things, I think that our railways will not be integrated into the EU rail system for much longer, but in any case, this above is something that should just be the goal of this bill. It is certain that this proposal, which is ahead of us, is one step towards a fundamental solution to the problem and opening the way for a more detailed regulation of transport contracts in railways and all in line with international regulations. Since the newspaper is concerned with a number of details, I will not be dealing with specific individual members here, in order not to bother you either, and we also have a debate in detail where we can comment more on these members, but I must say that this, formally speaking, is the law, without my real stand, nothing but something that will be denied here. It seems to me that he has a concern behind him, although the SPO parliamentary group and the Democratic Party of Serbia will also support this bill. He remains concerned that he remains an empty letter on paper, unless it is effectively implemented in practice, because passing the law is one thing and applying the law is something quite different. The fact remains that it itself represents a good legal solution, but the solution without application remains only in the domain of the solution and nothing else. As I said before, our parliamentary group will support him. We will also support the Law on Confirmation of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the UAE signed in 2014 and as such constitutes a basis for further improving the relations of signatories in the area of air traffic. All of this forward also applies to the draft air traffic agreement between our country and the Government of the People's Republic of China. As regards the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, as the last item of this agenda today, and on establishing a border procedure for the Presevo-Tabanovci border crossing, although there were, we say, certain problems which are being considered in the fact that for some reason, I will not list them all here, although this is the same in the reasons for adoption, and for these reasons, the Agreement was not concluded before and, primarily, because of the different positions of the parties on the definition of border crossings, which is specified in detail in the reasons for confirming the agreement, the text of the draft agreement between the signatories was finally agreed at the beginning of the year, which resulted in the conclusion of the agreement in February this year. Of course, this proposal for a law on the approval of the Agreement, as well as the previous two proposals, but also the previous two laws, in particular the Law on Railways for the Transport of Persons, as a whole new law, which in a transparent and systematic manner regulates wire materials in Serbia, the SPO-DHSS parliamentary group will support in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26264	The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26265	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Minister, honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have five legislative proposals before us today, and each of these legislative proposals, according to the SPS, has some importance and importance in the area to which it relates. First of all, a few words about the draft law on transport contracts in railways. Of course, at the very beginning, I will say that this legislative proposal in the voting day will have the support of the SPS Parliament Club. In the opening statement, the minister also said that the current Law on Transport Contracts in Railways was adopted at federal level in 1995 and that, in identical content, this law has been applied in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, in accordance with the directives implementing the Constitutional Charter and at the Republic level since 2003. Meanwhile, from the moment of adoption of this legislative proposal, from 1995 to today, it is certainly a time period which has marked essential reforms, essential reform processes when it comes to regulations in the area of rail traffic in Europe, and that is certainly one of the reasons why it is necessary to adopt new legislation. Also, one of the essential reasons for the adoption of a new traffic law, i.e. a new contract law, on rail transport, lies in the fact that Serbian legislation also has two new system laws. It's about the Law on Railways and it's about the Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways. These are the two system laws that meet the first three packages of the EU directive, which are in line with EU rules on security. These two legislative proposals actually mean liberalisation of openness, interoperability of the market but these two legislative proposals mean stronger and stronger competition, meaning better and better quality services, but wider and greater authorisation of service users. Of course, the need to regulate this area in a unique way, to strengthen and strengthen competitiveness on the transport market under equal and transparent conditions for all users and for all carriers. Of course, the reasons for the adoption of the new legislative proposal lie also in the fact that the current legislative proposal, the legislative proposal adopted in 1995, therefore at the federal level, does not foresee the possibility of separating transport from infrastructure management. The terminology used and used today, when it comes to this legislative proposal, is an anachron, is outdated and practice has long exceeded some valid, i.e. some envisaged legal obligations. We believe that the adoption of this legislative proposal will ensure that the rights and obligations of passengers in order to strengthen the rights of passengers, improve the efficiency and attractiveness of rail transport, but we also believe that the application of this legislative proposal will allow for the improvement of the efficiency of the rail system of the RS, its integration into the transport services market, but also the integration of the "Train of Serbia" into the EU rail system. Of course, it is common knowledge that an important and important job is necessary for the application of the legal proposal that we are talking about today. I want to say right away, at the very beginning, that in this business, at this point, everything that is doing and doing by the rest of the ministry in this business has the support of the SPS Parliament Club. Of course, I mean reforming and restructuring the national company. Railway orreforms have been said since 2000, during this period very little has been done and how important this job is, says the fact that this job has just become part of the arrangement with the IMF. What is the goal that we really want to support? In time, the funds allocated to a national company in the form of subsidies must be reduced. It must prevent the collapse of a national company, a downward trend that the national company has at the moment, from creating a new company that can function, which can operate, which can generate income and investment. We fully agree with the Vice-President and Minister when you say that they can and must make greater revenues than transport and that investments and projects in this area must not really stand. Ten billion dinars are allocated annually to this national company and cannot stand projects, because when we talk about subsidies, that is, the money of Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, it is a devastating fact that, I think, a few days ago, I had the chance to hear that, said that the productivity of "Serb Railway" was 70% lower than the productivity of European railways. Analyzing some data among other things, I've been able to come up with some more facts that, unfortunately, if they're not right, and if they're not true, you're going to deny me. That certainly makes me happy. At this point in the national company, as far as I could see, there are about 17,000 employees. If, for example, the average salary stays the same, I have information about what the average salary is, but I'm not going to talk about it. If the salaries remain the same at the moment, their participation in the total operating costs of the National Railways of Serbia, it seems to me to be around 57%. If the national wage company were to pay out of its own income at the moment, it could pay the salary somewhere for an eye, it seems to me, 7,100 employees, which certainly, if true, is not good information. And that is why, once again, we as a parliamentary club fully support everything the Ministry is doing and is doing in the direction of restructuring and reforming the national railways of Serbia, to increase rail participation in the transportation of domestic goods from the current ones, it seems to me, 10% to at least 29% as it was in 1990. Once again, I will repeat, of course, we will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. As far as the second legislative proposal is concerned, the proposal for a law on facial wire, so it's already said, this is a new area. This area has so far not been regulated legally, is not regulated in Serbian legislation, but if we start from what is reality, from what it is, that tourism is a real development opportunity, the real development potential of Serbia, then it is perfectly logical that all those aspects of tourism development should be regulated in one unique way. In Serbia, lifts for the transport of persons are exclusively used in ski centres and ski resorts. As far as I could see from the reasons of this legislative proposal, I think it is clearly defined that in the plan of making one cable car in Kopalnik, three tracks with a system of cableways in Zlatibor, which we think is very good, because the development of mountain centres with increasing the capacity of the cable system is a very important state project, bearing in mind that tourism is Serbia's real development opportunity. It's part of a platform for the economic development of central Europe's mountain centres. Therefore, the capacity of the cableways will increase more and more, of course, implies that this area must be arranged both from legal and economic but also from a technical point of view. On the other hand, the law I just mentioned, the system law, the Law on Railways, among other things, imposes the obligation to adopt a bill that will regulate the obligation we are talking about today. We agree, this is a complex system, and we need a unique terminology. Of course, it is important to bring this area in line with the European Parliament's directives, primarily for the sake of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, but also for the purpose of introducing some new approaches, technical, legal, economic, as well as newspapers in the structure of administrative bodies. You've already talked about it, what is it that it contains and what is it that is governed by this law? So in just one sentence, I'm going to say, the cableways are being arranged, the conditions for construction, reconstruction and maintenance, the placing on the market, the management of the installation of the cableway, the bodies and the bodies responsible for law enforcement and the supervision of the application of this law. We believe that the adoption of this law will increase both efficiency and security, and security of this kind of traffic. There are two agreements before us today, i.e. two draft laws in the form of an agreement, a draft air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the UAE and a draft air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. No matter what air traffic we're talking about here, I'll say how we look at the agreements we're talking about today. We believe that these agreements further improve the good relations of countries that are going on a single upward path, and also contributes to a further comprehensive development of relations in different spheres. These two agreements, in our opinion, are another step forward in comprehensive relations. The traditional good relations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China are being improved. I just want to remind you of some facts that aren't related to this bill, but I think they're very important. Following a successful visit by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the People's Republic of China followed three decades later and a very important visit by the prime minister of China to Serbia. The Chinese Prime Minister's summit and 16 prime ministers in central and southern Europe took place in Belgrade, and it has enormous importance, not only for the region, but also of enormous importance for Europe. On the other hand, when it comes to economic relations, a number of Chinese companies have been working on realisation, have already worked on the realization of significant projects in the Republic of Serbia, and there is an interest in the perspective of re-co-operation when it comes to concrete, let's say, the Belgrade railway project – Budapest, and when we talk about projects where we have co-operation, I mean, first of all, the Zemun-Borca Bridge, the "Costolac" and the construction project, I think, shares on Corridor 11. The second agreement is in our opinion, I will repeat, continue and improve good bilateral relations and good political relations between the two governments, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. When it comes to this agreement, I would like to highlight a few of the facts that we consider to be a parliamentary club that matters primarily because of the relationship between the two governments. So, I want to remind you of some things. The United Arab Emirates approved a $1 billion loan to Serbia. In the past few years, Serbia has not received credit in a more favourable manner, and I think that Serbia has saved between $30m and $40m annually on the loan, and the fact that Serbia is left at its disposal to determine how it will spend its funds on the credibility and mutual trust of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. Also, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates Air Force "Etihad" signed a strategic partnership agreement on 1 August 2013 establishing a new company. The new company today became a regional leader, a profitable JAT company that was on the verge of bankruptcy. Also, in this perhaps most important investment project, a project that should be launched in our opinion throughout Serbia, which will give a new face to Belgrade as well as Serbia, a project that should launch a complete Serbian economy, I mean the "Belgrade on Water" project is just being built out of funds from the United Arab Emirates. Of course, this agreement also wants support from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club. As far as the fifth legislative proposal is concerned, it is a proposal for a bill to confirm an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the establishment of a border procedure for the Presevo and Tabanovac railway crossing. This agreement has already been signed by Serbia with Bulgaria, Montenegro, with other countries in the region and neighbouring EU countries, and we believe that, in what you said in the opening statement, that the confirmation of this legislative proposal wants to be better in some way, to help better regulate border and rail traffic, its orderly and efficient conduct, reduce the existing level of administrative measures and introduce more effective border controls in rail transport. Repeatedly, the SPS Parliament Club's voting day will also support the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26266	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Marko Djurisic as head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26267	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, in three minutes you have explained these five laws we are discussing today. Much less than fellow MPs from other parliamentary groups did. I hope that in the course of the day we will hear more from you about some of the solutions that these laws make, about what they need to bring to Serbia and how the government thinks to use these laws to speed up the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia. Of course you couldn't either, but it's not your obligation to find a common line for these five laws because there's no interdependence and there's no one. So I'll say a few words first about three international agreements. I think they are good, I agree with the arguments that my colleagues have made and that they represent a continuation of the good co-operation we have as well as with the United Arab Emirates and China, and that they will modernise the procedure when crossing the railway transport between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia. When such agreements are on the agenda, they usually get the support of all MPs of all MPs and I believe that this time too. If nothing else, our parliamentary group will support these three agreements. The law on rail transport contracts is an important law. He should modernise procedures to allow the current railway system of Serbia to be separated into four companies, as far as we could find out from the media. Maybe you could have told us a little bit more about these plans, which is how it's supposed to be, with precise dynamics. We generally consider the law to be good. It is obviously prepared with the participation of competent people, it is in line with European directives. The deadlines provided for the sub-legal documents are set in order to allow all sub-legal documents to be adopted by the end of the year, as unfortunately only from the media to find out about the division of the Railways of Serbia on four enterprises, that some deadline, by that deadline all sub-legal documents should be adopted and will be able to happen in the way in which it was done in most countries. Of course, we will see what the application of this law will bring, this law and the division of the railways of Serbia. I just want to believe that it's not going to happen like, for example, today we can read the results of the Law's work on settlement deadlines in cash transactions, it's a little crackdown, which was brought into this assembly in December 2012. That's when we adopted here to make payments to the state for 45 days and private enterprises 60 days. Today's news is that the average payment deadline in Serbia last March was 126 days, and today is 141 days. So we've passed the law to cut deadlines, to get close to the European average of 35 days is concrete in this area, and the result is opposite. The deadlines have been extended from 126 to 141 days. Therefore, our concern I believe is justified, what will have the consequences of adopting this law, whether it will lead to an increase in collection, profits, the introduction of other legal entities in goods transport, whether this competition will raise this entire industrial branch, whether at the end of the economy benefiting from rail transport will benefit because this transport will be cheaper, more efficient and faster. In any case, we will support this law because we believe it provides the basis for editing this area, but hopefully there will be an opportunity to monitor the application of this law, the effects, and that no opposite, or unexpected effect will occur, as it did with the law that was meant to shorten payment deadlines. The last law I'm going to talk about, which is the 1st item of the agenda, is the proposal for a wire bill for face transport. It is the first time a law like this has been introduced into Serbia's legal system. So far, that has not been the case, there has been something defined by the Law on Ski resorts, the Law on Railways, but our opinion is that this attempt is completely unsuccessful. I cannot agree with my colleagues that the bill is good and that, as an argument, it is said – it is a bit of an amendment. Our parliamentary group has submitted 36 amendments to the 67th members of the law, although we are not sure if the government would accept all 36 to make the law good enough. By reading this law, I couldn't understand the way he was written, the structure of the law, the system of the law. In some parts of the law, it reminds us of some manuals from engineering, for example, so we have some instructions on safety at work. Some things are hypernormized, some general concepts are left undefined, Colloquial expressions are used as "Hazard", "for the field" or are stated there by security that the worker says – if he is in an alcoholic state, sick or such a mental state that he can't do jobs. I don't know what kind of mental state that is, and who determines this mental state, what criteria, by what methodology? Then, when I read the law's impact analysis one sentence turned on my lights like that, I might understand why this law looks like this. It says that the writing task force of this law was composed of representatives of the most significant stakeholders. When you look at other laws it's said – subjects, or I don't know how, interested. Interest groups know what it means. This law looks exactly like it was written by stakeholders. There's almost nothing in common when it's read as a whole. Most reminds me of the doctoral work of some ministers where something is copied, it's not listed where it was taken, and then when the question of such doctoral work is raised, then we have whole affairs, but well, that's not the subject. This law, among other things, is in collegiate with several laws that already exist, first of all, the inspection service law, we brought it to the last session. The law obliges the possibility of appeal to an inspector's solution. This law abolishes the possibility of appeal and directs the legal person to be able to initiate administrative proceedings, and the inspection service law provides for two-stageness. This law, you said the Minister three things, should enable the development of tourism, to prevent unfair competition and to resolve the safety of the cable users. We agree, this is an important law, first of all, because it regulates an area that is active with an increased risk. We therefore believe that certain standards are provided for in this law and formulations are not clearly written enough and that it is necessary to standardise this more accurately. We've had the most amendments to these things, since inadequate work and the conduct of perpetrators on a cable car can cost someone lives, we agree, and on that side we feel it's the legislator's obligation to make things clearer. You have also provided for this law that the ministry will draft a sublegal act within two years. Let's say, in this Law on Railway Transport, it's six months for a sublegal act and we consider it appropriate. We can't understand at all for two years, especially since some previous member, who talks about sublegal acts, says that the perpetrators, or that the cable managers, have a period of one year to customize their work under this law. If there are no sublegal acts, neither can they. So, we have also suggested that the deadline be reduced to six months, there are already some sublegal acts that this law also calls for to be applied to new ones. We don't see any reason not to speed it up and it doesn't end so this area is fully defined. Now I have some things here that are primarily for discussion in particular and I wouldn't talk about them. For example, there are opposing views. Article 31 says that a superior can remove an perpetrator who, he says, is not suspected, he says – if the superior assesses that he is under the influence of drugs, alcohol, and in Article 32 says it is determined in a certain way, there is no subjective assessment of a superior. It must be known how these things are determined and things like that. In any case, the final position of the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDP – Together for Serbia – Green Serbia on this law will be given after the debate is concluded in particular. We've given a large number of amendments, we think this law is bad, this is how it's written. We believe that we, too, may not have taken a good look at all the provisions of this law, and we believe that the best solution would be to have it withdrawn, to be drawn up and written by not by the representatives of stakeholders, but by stakeholders in a way that would enable what you said was the purpose of adopting this law, which is to develop tourism, prevent unfair competition and increase the safety of cable users.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26268	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26269	Here's a few clarifications, so let me start with this latest draft of the cable bill, and let's start with that term of the interest group. I understand that you, from your position, interpret the word "interest group" in your own way, which we all know for the past ten years as it has been, but stakeholders or stakeholders can be a very positive thing and can be a positive lobbying that such a law is realised in practice. So I can't agree with you that stakeholders in this sense mean something negative, but I understand why you say it, I understand you, I understand your political party, the option that says it. I totally agree with you on the sublegal act, and we're gonna cut that down. It's not right that one law takes two years for a sublegal act, because then we won't have the right application of the law. If we could have completed the sublaw in two months for the Law of Planning and Construction, there's no reason why we shouldn't have done it much faster. Also, when you talk about the application of this previous Law on transport contracts in railways, you mentioned rail reforming. Otherwise, I tried to be very brief at first, thinking we'd talk anyway, so I'm going through the discussion to explain, explain and talk a little bit more about the laws. The current state of rails that, of course, did not come suddenly, but was created for years, decades, is such that, now I'm going to read you just a few data and then I'm going to tell you what we've done so far. So labour productivity is 30% of the EU average, we've heard this before, traffic intensity - 30% of the EU average, passenger traffic intensity - 11% of the EU average, freight traffic intensity is 54%, locomotive productivity - 30% of the EU average, bad-state assets - 85% of the engine above 35 years old, 65% of passenger cars older than 35 years old and there are many other data that can only show us in fact, and we all know the state of Railways. The railway reform has begun. So far, the founding act has already been made, we will have three plus one by July 1st, which means three companies that will certainly form for the infrastructure, for the transport of passengers and for the load. That's when I say-- plus one, holding that will have a limited time of its duration, maximum of two years. It's the first phase of reforming the railroad, it's not even the last, it's just the beginning. So it's going to take us at least a few years to get into this second phase, so we're going to solve the property issue, the relationship between businesses, all non-correspondent companies that exist, we can't fully view them as not there, but we started it. So I think it's a good thing and a good step. For now, I have to admit, compared to the other public enterprises, for now we're going as planned. When you mentioned exactly this law and when you were wondering about application, I think the problem with all our laws is often a question of application. We will pass laws and strategies and plans, and it will happen to us or it will happen to us, and I hope that it will be less and less, that sometimes completely some laws will not be fully applied. I believe that through the sublegal act, which must be completed as soon as possible, and through clear control we will apply those laws. I wouldn't do anything further. If there are any questions, I will continue to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26270	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26271	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have two laws and three agreements that in a very clear way regulate the matter of transportation of passengers, i.e. goods. I would like to begin by informing you that the New Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support both the laws and all three agreements. The degree of the arrangement of a country is also seen in the fact that the law defines a job, that each part of the state administration is doing what is prescribed by law, so that, in my opinion, the Resoring Ministry of Employment should be commended in the drafting of the proposal of these two laws, as well as in the conclusion of the interstate agreements mentioned. In the Law on Wires for Transport, in my opinion, it is very important to harmonize the operation of the Resolute Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Articles 21 and 22 of this law also provide for the necessity of this close co-operation, primarily because it is very important to determine the route of the cableway, as well as the width and height of the safety belt around the track of the cableway, and therefore it is necessary, among other things, to coordinate these two ministries. Indeed, we have for the first time this law in Serbia to be governed by this proposal by the area of cableways. It is perfectly normal for us to start taking care of this area, with the fact that tourism is developing and that the building capacity of cableways is increasing on both Kopalnik and the Old Mountain and on Brezovica and on Zlatibor. The old mountain, according to its natural features, is a location where it should expect the most intense activities, when it comes to building a system of cableways and ski tracks as well as accompanying infrastructures, so in my opinion, the state is going to meet with the inevitable development of this type of infrastructure. It is good that the development of the mountain centres of the Republic of Serbia is planned. Our mountain centres are mainly in underdeveloped areas, so building infrastructure on them will actually increase the number of tourists and tourism development, but at all I think it will pull back towards further development of our undeveloped landscape, and what is also very important, I think it will stop the decades-long trend of emptying the entire parts of our country, which is, in the long run, our big strategic problem. This law also provides for the possibility of a public-private partnership, as well as concession contracts in this area, which opens the door to new investment from abroad and in this segment of our economy. When I mention harmonising our legislation with EU regulations, I would like to briefly touch the proposal for legislation on transport contracts in railways. It is clear that the legislator has decided to approach the new text of the law due to the rapid development of rail relations based on a completely new basis, especially in developed EU countries, as well as the need for necessary harmonisation of domestic legislation with the EU legal framework. It is good that this bill kind of interrupts with the traditional concept of regulation of the railway, which tends to improve the efficiency of the Republika Srpska railway system and integrate Serbian railways into the EU rail system. The most serious and certainly most demanding infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia have been announced so far, as are related to the construction of a new one, as well as to the revitalisation of existing railway infrastructures. It is good that, now, the appropriate fellow MP on the issue, you have briefly presented the concept of further rail reform and further development of "Serb Railways", but I would, above all for the sake of Serbian citizens, like to give another positive information that I have, in preparation for this debate, heard from the director of "Serb Railways", and I think it is very important. According to Serbian Railways Director General, "Serb Railways" are predicting an additional thousand freight trains that will pass through our part of Corridor 10 this year. The fourm-euro revenue will be generated by national rail transport thanks to the transport of goods from the Athens port of Piraeus to Central and Northern Europe. Only the Chinese company Kosko represented two terminals in this port for a period of as many as 35 years, so it managed our plans and railways of neighbouring countries to draw a target of 2.5 thousand trains for one of the world's most powerful economies in the coming period. This is all due, of course, to the announced modernisation of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, which as an infrastructure project is one of the most important priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly it is very important to complete the construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway, then electrification of the second track from Panchev to Belgrade, which will have a better connection between the capital and Vrsac and the state border with Romania for our ultimate goal. The legislator himself has fully in mind until the end of the "Serb Railways" reform and the separation of business areas in infrastructure, goods and passenger transport. I think that reform you were talking about is very important for the application of this law. As for international agreements, the New Serbia parliamentary group has always supported all international agreements that are important for Serbia's economic recovery and economic development. These two air traffic agreements with the Government of the United Arab Emirates and the People's Republic of China are also going in that direction and represent further development of our airline, primarily because they are provided for the principle of reciprocity, which provides for equal chances for contractors and equal opportunities for business, without discrimination or disbursement. Therefore, neither our Arab nor our Chinese friends tried to use their dominant economic position over the Republic of Serbia in making these agreements and to try to get a better or more privileged position for their airlines than our carriers. All will have equal chances of trying to take a position on the market in a sharp market match. What is particularly important to us is the strategic partnership between this company and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of ensuring the stable and long-term business of our national carrier. I think that through this international agreement, through these international agreements, Er Serbia has been given a new chance, especially as a member of the Action Capital Alliance, and I think it will have a nice opportunity, which I have no doubt, and will take advantage of to achieve additional revenues and take full advantage of all the financial benefits provided by these contracts, as well as joint procurement and joint training and staff development. Once again, I want to tell you that the New Serbia Parliamentary Group will support these three agreements and these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26272	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word has the head of the DS parliamentary group, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been waiting for you to read it all the way, just in case.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26274	I didn't understand, please repeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26275	Nothing. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleagues, we have some bills here, and there are really some newspapers and a lot of positive things in them. The proposal for a law on lifts for face transport has inaccuracies, there's too much regulation, on the one hand, and too little on the other hand, a rather uncoordinated text, seems to me at moments like two groups of people wrote it. I join these criticisms of the interest group, therefore, regardless of the political connotation that causes it, there are better expressions that could say it. So, really, without any evil intent, to leave at least at this point politics on the side, there are adequate terms to solve it, not to bring any unnecessary confusion. In Article 32, which regulates the question of the presence of illicit substances in cable workers, there are several things that really cause some confusion. So, certain misunderstandings. It is said: “If an executive worker refuses or does not consent to an examination or if an examination is found to be under the influence of alcohol”, etc., etc. There's one thing missing here, and that's when this interrogation is done. As it says in the bill, it is possible that this examination, i.e. that an authorised executive officer may refer him to the interrogation when he assesses that it is useful for him, for some reason. I believe that here, regardless of what may seem impossible to us in the congregation, life has also shown that various abuses are possible. So, I think it should have been put – right after the insight, or right after a certain doubt created in that sense. Some timeline, I think, would improve this text. In Article 34, the working time and duration of the shift, where our law relies on the Labour Act, which, as you know, we find very bad, it is said that the working time of the executive worker cannot last longer than 11 hours. I think it's too long and it's a job that requires a high allergy, requires a high presence of the spirit and consciousness and concentration of that worker, because people are being transported. I know that one of these interest groups fits those 11 hours, because they can make two shifts or one shift and that man gets used up that way, but, 11 hours is too long. I think eight hours would be quite appropriate. It is further said that "the minister, with the agreement of the minister in charge of labour affairs, prescribes working time and duration of shift depending on organisation and frequency of traffic." So, you and Minister Vulin need to prescribe the duration of the executive's shift, which, of course, puts every well-intentioned citizen of Serbia in a state of high coldness immediately. If you need something with Vulin to make a deal, I hope you don't mind, we're really worried, really, and I believe you're worried too. ‘Emergency procedure’, Article 45. I only have one suggestion here. It is said that the controller is required immediately to know about the emergency in item 1 to inform the competent service, to refer to emergency assistance, police, etc. Prior to that, he was required to inform his superiors immediately. So we should change the order. It is much more important, except, of course, that you explained that it is obliged to provide assistance, which is fine, and to be trained to provide first aid, and that is fine, I think here should just replace the places of two attitudes – that before informing the superiors, inform people who can help save lives, nothing else. It's about this law. As far as the bill on rail transport contracts is concerned, we have a few things here. First of all, this law itself is not bad. He introduces electronic visions for the paper and other things, and I think that's very good. I am sorry that there is still an alternative option in some members, for example, in Article 9, where it says that "a carrier can publish a driving order properly in printed or electronic form". I think it would be better if it said, "and electronic form". I know the situation on the railway is difficult, I know that we have a lot of employees who know how, I know that reforming this system is just a huge challenge and a task, but here's the thing I think would improve in the process of modernization, because you have a regulation to reform the railway, whether it's Director Stojcic or Minister or whoever, or the board of directors, doesn't matter, to have some cover for modernising steps. It is said here that "the ticket seller and the transporter provide information from the third article's position whenever possible". Otherwise, to remind you that Article 3 is required to provide passengers in the most appropriate way, on their request, the following information, and here you now have general conditions, driving order, delay, safety, etc. I don't think this provision should be left behind: "whereever possible", but I think there must be an imperative norm here, because it's transport contracts and that it shouldn't be left at will for people who, I think, are really in a position to look at things in a way – we will easily. Otherwise, the railroad itself, as the minister has well noticed, has been ragged for decades. I don't have a better expression, really. Many funds were spent by Serbian citizens on Serbia's railways. All governments were trying something. All governments have failed, and now we have the next situation. A new CEO has been brought in, when I say – brought in, I mean nothing bad, so a man has been elected to that post, I think it is a good thing that it is Mr. Stojcic because he is a man who is a longtime railway worker. He's been through all the instances, and I really don't have any grudges. The best thing to do is to place professionals of people of the profession to run large systems that pass the proper competition without the influence of the parties. So in that sense I really have nothing to add we'll see his concrete results. I wish there was a public publication on the website of his plan of what he meant specifically in which time limits to do so. We don't have that yet. This will have to be done in some subsequent changes to the law to introduce as an imperative that it has to be done because without it, the public has no insight, and therefore the ministers and the people who run the government are in a difficult situation that they need to assess something like that and you know often under the influence of people who work in large systems. Otherwise, if I understand correctly, and the minister will certainly correct me, the railroad is either divided or divided into four parts. Now, if I'm sorry if I'm wandering a little bit, I'm speaking based on information from the railroad itself that I got. What concerns railway workers is that around the division, the division was approached or plans for division were approached in a way that narrow circle of people agreed, with some leading people from unions and people who run those parts, about who would go to what part, where the directorate favored me, seems to me to be for the infrastructure, and the others were so malted at the penalty. The whole process was done very briefly, without a clear analysis, or a long enough analysis, on professional grounds, and in a month and most of all pushed, profitable directors and placed their people in the infrastructure. It seems to me, and I'm afraid that this division wasn't working towards the needs of the company and existing personnel, but by who has a stronger relationship. You, Minister, know very well what I'm talking about here and I'm afraid not, I'm not saying anything else. You know, too, that there is, Mr. Executive Director Rajko Kovic, who, according to the Railways, has a huge impact, even greater than the director Stojcic himself. Among other things, the third problem is that we still don't have a supply director at Railways, and you know that this is one of the most strategic parts of "Serb Railways" and thus possible various, various manipulations, setting up supplies and other things. I think it's bad that we don't have, that the Railways don't have a supply director and we know that there's been attempts to do it, so it's caused some misunderstandings in the public, you wouldn't get into it. But anyway, I think it's necessary to do that. The illustration of all of what is written in the Law, Article 5 paragraph 1 defines what is an accident, railway - The accident is an unwanted or unplanned surprise event or a specific series of such events that has adverse consequences. Crashes, tracks slips, accidents at a road crossing at the same level, etc. We had last year, Minister, I don't know if you know, in the middle of a campaign for parliamentary elections, somewhere at Sopot's accident. Two freight trains crashed, and it's kind of hidden from the public, covertly, no one answered for it, and they got some private companies. One private company got a job cutting down old cars and selling iron and copper, otherwise, the damage of a million euros was done, it's good that no one was killed. Otherwise, here's what it looked like, respected citizens, no one bothered to inform Serbian citizens that we had a collision of two freight trains and that no one was, absolutely responding, nothing but a single company got a job, a private firm I don't know who was close to, but as they speak in the Railways, there's an alpha and an omega one man. Of course, at the end of the day there are two questions for you ministers, since we have all the parameters at one-third of the EU level, as you said, that is devastating. Also, we have a big problem with 65m euros for a remont of cars, which has been established by the DRI and we must, it seems to me that the state has to solve this thing, and I know that you agree that it has lasted for years, that for years someone has obviously been embezzling state money under the company "Remonta car", for years, and I think that for 65m euros that have disappeared into the air, someone in this country must finally match the name and last name and see who these people are. Also, let's see who the people are, as I think they are, and I hope they support me, if not now, one day you probably want to introduce a criminal act of party employment. Because the current Stojcic, Mr Stojcic, has not done party employment yet, but his predecessor, Mr Simonovic, and as he is, you know it. These were hundreds of people who were party employees, and that's where the money went missing. That's where the money of Serbian citizens disappeared. The railway is a strategic thing for every country, it must not be privatised, and it must be made functional, operational and efficient and for that each year, the citizens of Serbia pay millions, millions of euros under each authority. So, in that sense, I'm asking you to tell me, what's going to happen to the investigation, or what do you have on embezzlement 65 million euros, is someone going to be responsible for this or similar incidents, the collisions we had on our railroad, is someone going to be exactly what trains are sometimes late for 13 hours? So, is there anything we can do? I think that, as Government, here's one commendation, I simply can't believe that I'm going to say this, the good thing that people are doing for the competition, which is that there's no party placement of directors in the Railways, unlike Mr. Simonovic, who was a clean party piece. You should continue that path, I support you in that. I think that's the way, I think all the other executives, especially in the area of procurement, must be professionals. I think it depends very much on that man. I think that the whole system is so tied up, like a hydra and that the one who comes to do it is necessary to be a man, not that we're outside of all the party pools, but that there must be a man who's willing to stop what's been going on in the railroad for decades, especially in supply. And of course the railway workers are concerned and, of course, they're bitter and of course they're looking for answers to these questions. I hope you give them today, or at least partially. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26276	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26277	I'll have some of the most important things I have to answer, especially for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. When you mention the interest groups again, so that it is not only that there is no delusion, I did not go into details, and now we will read to the details - Representatives of the most important interest groups related to this area of cableway (Ministership of Industry, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Directorate for Railways, JP Ski resort, Institute of Standardisation of Serbia, Republic Agency for Physical Planning, Institute for Nature Protection, Faculty of Transport, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of Civil Engineering, University of Belgrade). These are the interest groups standing on this paper. So now, if you tell me that these are stakeholders in a negative sense, these all the ministries and institutions I've called, then it still agrees with that finding that I had according to one of the previous speakers. But I think there are even more important things here that we have to answer, and it concerns a few members of the Law that you mentioned and inaccuracies, text inconsistencies, or as you said in article 32 where you refer to the interrogation, and I refer you to article 31 and Article 33 even more important where a sublegal act or regulation is yet to be passed that will define exactly what you have set. The working hours you've also set up, a member of the 34th Sublaw Act that needs to be arranged. Then let's get to these railroads, get out of the wagons and embezzlements you're talking about and the previous director you're only apostrophe in that because you think it was embezzlement. First, the report was given by the Anti-Corruption Council, the moment the report came, unlike I'd say maybe from all previous governments, this government has nothing to hold and no secret, the moment the report came, the state authorities and institutions have to do their job. The report has been forwarded to the Ministry of the Interior, of which we expect a report. But to remind you of the period, the period is 2005 to 2014. In 2005, the SNS people were not in the Railways, neither were they in the government, neither was the prime minister from the SNS, nor was he from 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, until April 2014, the SNS had its prime minister. So, the period, I agree, really you're absolutely right, we need to get a report on what happened, where the money went and who spent it. But just to remind you, I'm afraid there will probably be some other names and other political parties involved. I agree with you that there must be no political employment. There you are right and the director of Railways has been elected to the competition and not only the director of Railways, but unlike some of the previous governments again, I must say, this government chooses people in competitions. When you're talking about the director of the procurement, or first I have to admit, you're very well directed to the entire railway business, you know the complete systemization of the railroad. I don't deal with the systematicization of the Railways and it's important for me that the Railways give the result and that the director give the result and that the people who work give the result. But they have assistant director general, so the deputy director of the supply sector, since we're going in. Well, just so you know, it means, and I agree with you, they should name the director of procurement, if it's by systemization. One member mentioned very important, Article 9 of this Act, what the carrier should publish in printed and electronic form, I agree that it should be "or", so we will see in the period ahead of us whether it is happening. One more thing was important in reforming the Railways, you mentioned, and that the citizens should know, nothing was done at random, nothing was done by heart, no work contract was done in that way. What we did quickly, we did according to plan and dynamics. What we were doing quickly was realising which was fast, but for a year, the practical reforming of the railroad is being prepared. It can even be said that certain analyses were made two years ago and that in May the first decision of the government was already going, last year, on the reformation of the railway. So, there was no transfer of employees at will, and I can guarantee that, but contracts were transferred the way people are doing right now. The three companies will be formed and we believe and hope that on 1 January 2017, therefore, the company that deals with the transport of cargo or caego will be fully independent, but we will also have, and you mentioned the infrastructure, so we will have a company that will deal with, i.e. the infrastructure itself, and the third in terms of passenger transport. We'll see how much, how much, and when, and whether they can be on their own, we know they will. I just want to say that we're being careful here, because we're not doing anything by heart, and there's a huge group in the government, so that's not the question of the railroad, this is the question of the government of the whole, the whole society, so all the ministries, the representatives of the railroad, union representatives, representatives of the railway assembly, and nothing can be done that everyone knows what's going on, because it's the only way we really do this reform, at least I believe it's the only way. If I haven't answered anything, I'll add it later.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26278	Thank you, Madam Minister. You want a replica, Mr. Stefanovic? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26279	I don't doubt the minister that in this particular case, and in some other you want the best thing and you want the good, it's not at all, we don't have the slow. I'll remind you, you've had some public disagreements with the former leadership of the Railways and with some of the things the Railway worked for that moment when you found out you obviously didn't know. One thing is, they've been planning it for years. I'm telling you in a month they've divided the company so those who are privileged to deal with the union heads went into one segment. And you check it out. Here, I'm just asking you to check, nothing else. So, I'm telling you what the railroad workers say. They say that not because this party, this party, is the party, but because they want you to hear it. If you heard that, as you knew in front of the director's cameras that you were very effective in listening, so I assume you'll do at some eye-to-eye meeting. You have our support in that sense. So these are things that unfortunately happen in Serbia. Not just on the railroad. Another thing, the Anti-Corruption Council has submitted the report exactly since 2005, 65m euros have been embezzled. Do you agree with me that it is completely irrelevant, indeed completely irrelevant even in a political struggle whether these directors or those directors will be there? As far as I'm concerned, everyone should be on the hook. All of them. From, I don't know who he was from 2005, to Simonovic. None of them should be esculpated here. I'm telling you quite frankly, looking at you absolutely don't care who's from which party, if you've broken the law you have to answer and, of course, it's totally irrelevant whether there's five SNS or one of them, as far as I'm concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26280	I thank Mr. Stefanovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26281	I fully agree that everyone who has embezzled should respond, so the institution will give us a report. So the institutions in this country are functioning. And if it's going to be one SNS or it's going to be either five or it's going to be 10 DS, we're going to see and we're going to let the institutions do it again. Just to remind myself of 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, there was no SNS. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26282	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go, Miss Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26283	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as we have had the opportunity to hear more than once today during the debate, three proposals for international agreements and two new laws are now on the agenda, one of which is a whole new law, or law that regulates an area that has not been regulated so far. For years, we have been aware of the fact that in Serbia the capacity for winter sports is increasing, which is certainly one of the serious and state projects of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the Republic of Serbia, cableways for the transport of people, i.e. persons, are used exclusively in ski centres, and as an example, I can list ski centres on the Kopalnik, Stari Planina, Tornik, which are very well connected to the cable system. The plan includes construction and new cableways on the Kopalnik, as well as three new tracks with a system of cableways on Zlatibor. As I have already stated, we are aware of the fact that the capacities in our ski centres are increasing, thus increasing the risks to their safety, so it is simply important, and I can say freely this one area legally and regulated. We are aware of the fact and we know the old rule in Serbia that when there is no clear rule for who is responsible or competent, then simply no one is responsible or competent, or if there is any interest, then there are many who are in charge. I am sorry that a colleague from the SDS said they have submitted 36 amendments and that even by accepting those amendments the law will not improve, which just means that they still think that there may be better lawlessness than any law, which I absolutely disagree with. In fact, the adoption of this law was certainly predicted by the moment we passed the Law on Railways. Otherwise, ski resorts, or cableways, are only mentioned in the Law on Public Ski resorts, but the law really speaks only of them in general, does not define what the law should define. What we do with this law, we clearly define everything that is important in connection with the cableways, and we certainly define certain terms and procedures that are in line with the European Community directive, and this is also going in step with harmonising our rules with EU regulations. During the draft of this law, a working group was formed, and I am sorry that fellow MPs use the term "interestary working group", I will repeat what the minister said, that experts in this task force were representatives of the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism, Telecommunications, and also experts from the Railway Directorate of the JP "Skistations of Serbia", the Institute of Standardisation of Serbia, the Faculty of Transport, the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Civil Engineering, and this is all in favour of making this subject really accessible in a very serious way. In addition, it says that this law entered into regular procedure, that public debates took place throughout Serbia, that they were held in Belgrade, Užica, Zajecar, Nis and Novi Sad, so that all those who were interested could make their remarks at the time. Also, after the adoption of this law, a number of sublegal acts need to be passed in order to allow this law to be applied with its full capacity. What is also very important is the inspection work, that is, the inspection of the implementation of this law, as well as the law, as well as other sublegal acts that will be passed under this law, which will refer to the fact that the cableways work in a safe and good way. As for the draft law on transport contracts in railway transport, unlike the Law on cableways, this was the Law that existed, or that was passed since 1995 on a federal level, and was later applied since 2003 and at a republican level. The reasons for the adoption of such a law are that two system laws have changed in this area, it is the Law on Railways and the Law on Railway Safety, and therefore, if this law were not adapted, it would remain incompatible with other regulations, and thus with EU regulations. Certainly, the basic objective of such a law is to increase transport efficiency. As for the previous law, as for this law, it also entered into a regular procedure, a public debate was held throughout Serbia, citing cities where public debate took place in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica, Užica and Zajecar. Also, all those who wanted to make their remarks could have done what happened. Furthermore, there are three international agreements on the agenda, international agreements that certainly represent a continuation of good international co-operation. The first of them is the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on confirming the border procedure for the Presevo-Tabanovce railway crossing. The agreement was signed in Skopje on 16 February this year, and as a result of its application, border and rail traffic should be resolved, and Serbia's agreements with Bulgaria and Montenegro served as good examples. This Agreement provides for the signing of a series of protocols, which are defined in Article 14, and the deadline for those protocols is set for 90 days, and then this Agreement will have its full capacity. The latest on the agenda are the proposals for international air traffic agreements and this is the draft air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. The agreement was signed on 14 March 2014 and the second draft law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. Certainly, both of these agreements are a very good basis for improving international relations with these countries. As the minister has already said, a total of 97 of these agreements have been signed, and certainly these agreements have a form, simply, of a living document and need to be further improved over and over again. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all these agreements in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26284	I thank you, Miss Rakic. Since there are no more authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups reported, we are moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word in the joint principle and uniform search. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26285	Citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have again one unnecessary activity in the Assembly, which is the merger of dots, the merger of incompatible border agreements, air traffic, rail traffic and cableways. I don't see any reason, whether it's a fear of discussion or it's too committed to reform, so it can't be enough to bear any parliamentary debate about something, but everything has to go over its knees, although it's interesting that the fellow who suggested a merger point isn't there right now. The cable bill, at first glance, it's pre-regulatory. Is cableways just as important a part of our lives that there has to be a law for it? But we also accept fellow Pavicevic and I that if it was intended to regulate it by law, we accept it as one of the options. It may have been possible by some other act that is of lower value to get rid of it, but there is the text of the law before us and we do not have any significant objections to that law, so we will give our support to that law, as we have already stated. The contract law in rail traffic is the same law that can get a transitional grade, but I think it's necessary to fix it. We've given 12 amendments, some of which are dedicated to re-defense, because there's everything and everything that goes through. Obviously, it's not just a result of being careless, it's something a little bit worse than that. But some amendments are also dedicated to specifying some of the provisions of the norm, so I think the law is generally good and it can be very good if our amendments are adopted. Of course, the situation in the railways is always an interesting topic and there is no need to transfer this government to the previous government. It's a company, a kind of traffic that's been losing 40 years and more in this country, I think. When I started my private business in 1986, there was a tax on railways, 2% were paid on every traffic, on every Virmanic payment, among other things, and certainly there had been before. What's the reality? Today, the reality is that we have, in my knowledge, 1,000 engineers and 100 locomotives, 1,000 engineers who are in a working relationship and 100 locomotives that can be used for traffic, even if we see these in a remont, whether cars, whether locomotives with those 60 and five, six million euros of theft, then the situation gets worse. Reforms are necessary. It is necessary for this company to be divided and there is our support there and in one part of these aspirations of the Government, if this is eliminated to the end, you have practically signed our programme, the New Party's traffic programme, and since it is not an author's work protected, but is available to everyone, we are pleased if that at least fits. These embezzlements from 2005 to today, I don't think there's any need for this subject to be overly politicized. Of course, it's all politics. Everything in this country is a living policy. This is a political assembly of Serbia, and it's perfectly natural for us to speak in such a way, but that's who was in power, whether they were advances, radicals, Democrats, these, they, from some years to some years, I think it's hard to help us. The culprits should be punished by name and last name, and one of those who have been called finally ends up in prison. We have three years of calling. And before that, we had five, six years of calling, and we're going to jail, and we're going to jail, and Miskovic, and Saric, and Cosmajca, I don't know who. No one's been convicted, and their lawyers are saying it won't happen. Finally, some people who are in high-level SNS today were in power and in 2005 as advisers to the Deputy Prime Minister, as members of the EPS Management Board, if I remember correctly. So let's not share that time when we were and when we were.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26286	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26287	It's important that the laws are respected. If the adoption of these laws is done in a good way, we will have a chance to improve the situation in these areas they deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26288	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26289	I'm advocating a violation of article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Dear Chairman, you've been obliged to warn the speaker. He talked about everything except the law, both Saric and I don't know what, respecting the supposed law in that case. Maybe she remembers the time when people went to prison during "Sablje" without the right to an attorney, even. So, I would really ask that someone who violated human rights roughly while he was Prime Minister really isn't invited to something like this and, of course, I would ask you to always warn him when he's not talking about the agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26290	Thank you. Believe me, after so much warning and warning, it is not worth insisting on that, unless the dignity of the National Assembly is harshly violated. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. I thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26291	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had my doubts about some laws, whether to support them or not, since the debate was united by five laws. I have to support these laws since my fellow farmer supports them. In particular, the laws concerning the Agreement with the Emirates and China on air transport are essential. In particular, the Law on Railways is important, given that the transport of goods makes our wine faster, they travel more safely to be available to wide European and world markets. I think these laws are very important to our vineyards, winemakers, regardless of the amount of money the state has invested in wine growing in the attempt. I think these laws are very important because of our vineyards, because they can be more successful in importing vines, especially if the vineyards are raised by our former prime ministers. I think these laws are very good for our winemakers. So the more successful they trade with other wine producers in other markets, to compete and thus promote some of our brands. I think they're particularly important to those winemakers, those winemakers and winemakers who have a tradition in the production of wine of less than three years. In particular, these laws are important for our winemakers, our vineyards, our winemakers who are working in Parliament benches now, because they have successfully sold their vineyards immediately after receiving certain subsidies from the state. I believe that rail transport, especially by air traffic, can help you to have our winemakers and winemakers with a doubtless three-year tradition compete with French wine producers, with their winemakers who have this tradition for a few dozen years and a few hundred years, for several centuries. I think we have enough former prime ministers to successfully resist these markets, if our railroads they left behind and whose wagons are moving at the speed of the diliance, while they're raising the most modern wine crops... I think our winemakers and winemakers can compete quite well if they quickly transport their wines, their art, their skills, I think we can even defeat French winemakers and become a vineyard force. It is not remembered in France, nor in the countries of wine, that their prime minister, who has so long and successfully traded in European, well-known wine markets, is not remembered. So, I think for that reason that I have to support this law, not just for the transport of goods, but for the transport of passengers. I think we should make travel contracts, transport all those workers, and it's 700 to 800,000 employees who are out of work from 2000 to 2012. It is very moving and the fight against the corruption of some members of the party of the former regime, which I welcome when they talk about corruption in the car repairs, ski resorts and I don't know what, since I know that they are very old and very well aware of this area of corruption, since they have ruled for 12 years, they know exactly where their personnel have been implanted, networked, etc. and attention should be paid to their discussions, given their unquestionable experience in these areas. There is no reason why you would not support this law, since the MPs of the former regime also support it, but I wonder – what are we going to carry with the rails that we need to rebuild, what are we going to transport by infrastructure, by the roads that we have to rebuild? So I advocate, regardless of the state's debt before we arrive at power, that we, as far as we can in our power, develop business activities, infrastructure, rail and road transport, that we can transport the railway workers cheaply to work, that they can earn their salaries that they can bring to their families once a month, that few hundred, nearly 800,000 workers who have lost their jobs since 2000, these railways in a faster and more efficient way come to their jobs and that, after their work is done, when they earn their earnings, to fill their stomachs, full pockets with their families, and that they can once a month bring their wages to those same train, to their people, to spend half a year's vacation, if not at sea, or at some spa, or at least visit their relatives on the other side of Serbia. They've lost everything in the past 12 years, and it's our obligation to, as a country, give them their job back, to give them back time when they could make money, not just for bread, when they could make money to take care of their family, not to be on the cold, rain, etc., to get an apartment, a roof over their heads, to get a decent salary, to be able to train themselves, train their children, their children, their family, their neighbors, to train their children, to heal the old and the sick. So, we must return those times, but to someone who has steeped us with a free fall of 10,000 meters, from a height that has not been climbed by the one who climbed Karakorum. So, the famous one who visited prisons and prisoners who eventually killed the prime minister. So someone who's thrown at 10,000 feet, who falls free, his only desire is to open his parachute, but when the parachute opens, and in 2012 it's open, until the soul is too late, his only desire is not to break too much, and when he falls down, despite all the pains, his desire is to get up to that peak as quickly as possible where the free fall is steeped by irresponsible authorities, irresponsible regimes and irresponsible prime ministers threw him off that height to break. While they were filling their pockets, as they entered the castles and fairy tales, the people were left in the fables. While they lived, the people barely survived. That's why I'm sorely listening to some defeated former prime ministers and the state of Serbia is a really big country, since it has endured all these governments. With that, there is nothing left for me but to support this law, but also to ask for business activity to be raised, that our railways, whether they are faster or not, should be those whose trains will move at an average speed of 80km, to replace those railways that when you go to the sea, when we found the country in 2012, you will twice run out of health book by the time you get there, your ID card and passport expires, and then you will be sent back to Montenegro. The trains were going so slowly. All this needs to be restored, but business activity must be restored as well. We have to export more goods than we import, and we have to export them not to be raw materials, but to be finished products. Not to export corn, cattle flour, soy juice, etc., but to export finished food products and thus find work for both peasants and workers. It's that dream that we all share here and have. This is what they have turned off the candle, turned off the light for this people, and we are obliged, obliged to turn that light on, and to make Serbia a great land again, a land free and a home of the brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26292	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26293	The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Mihajlovic with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, on the need to pass a new law, which would regulate the area of transport contracts in railway transport, speaks enough of the fact that in Serbia it is in force, that the Law on Transport in Railway Transport, which was adopted long ago in 1995 and that the provisions of the law do not comply with the current situation in the economy, businesses, as well as with the laws and legislation of the EU. In the previous period, we adopted several laws in this area, including the Law on Railways and Security and Interoperability, which cannot be fully applied without the adoption of this Law on Transport Contracts in Railway Traffic. That is another reason why this law should be passed and adopted in the voting day. On May 9th 1980, a Convention on International Railway Traffic was established in Bern with the aim of establishing a unilateral legal framework for the transport of passengers, luggage and goods. The Convention has suffered a number of changes since the date of adoption, most significant changes in accordance with the 1999 Protocol amending the Convention, which was ratified in Serbia in 2006, which created the preconditions for the development of competition, i.e. legal conditions that there is no longer a state-owned railway company in Serbia that will be responsible for transport and infrastructure management, but that the railway market can be liberalised. Market changes in both Europe and the world place new market requirements through the globalisation of the market, through sharp competition, through the daily struggle to preserve existing users and conquer new users through changes in commodity flows, etc. Our rather unregulated legal issue in this area has a negative impact on smooth business and international and domestic carriers, which must be put first as a task to all factors to act in the direction of improving existing regulatory and building the lack of legal regulations, respecting, of course, European and world standards and technologies and also ensuring equal market access for domestic carriers, but also ensuring conditions for foreign carriers that are identical to the conditions that our carriers have in their countries. The draft law on rail transport contracts is one of the three system laws governing the operation of all railway undertakings, and the effects that will affect the economy, the economy, the business of railways, passengers and all rail service users at the beginning of the adoption of this law. In Serbia, some other types of rail transport are used three times more, suggesting poor rail use, and this confirms Serbia's 92nd place on the competition index list when it comes to rail traffic. That's understandable, given the fact that the average speeds on our tracks are about 40 kilometers per hour, while the average speed on the tracks in Europe and in the world is between 200 and 300 kilometers per hour. The reform of railways and passenger and freight traffic is needed as soon as possible to bring Serbia's railways into one position that belongs to them. Serbia has started reforming and restructuring of railways, first of all involving the organisation and status detachment of infrastructure from rail transport, but what is more important is the creation of opportunities for railway operators to carry out transport in conditions of competition on the infrastructure. The restructuring process itself does not go quickly and does not follow the deadlines foreseen for the implementation of the restructuring concept, which can be explained in some ways by the causes stemming from our traditional unpreparedness to change, to change our awareness of the monopoly and public service and to move to the awareness of market business policy and competition. The harmonisation of the rules relating to passenger transport contracts and things in rail traffic with the Protocolary Convention on International Railway Transport is a legal obligation. In its content under the Amending Protocol, the COTIF provides guidelines which are binding on all amendments to the provisions of the Law on transport contracts in railway transport. You, Mrs. Mihajlović, have presented all the advantages of this bill and I will only briefly refer to what I think is most important and it is certainly very important that this bill regulates the relationship between several carriers. This is the first time any law has been provided for, and practically means that a railway service user concludes a transport contract and becomes a contractual party to that contractual relationship, and the other carriers taking over passengers or goods in the course of one course become consecutive carriers. Also, it's very important that you define yourself as an executive carrier, I can compare it with some kind of subcontractor. The relevant newspapers provided for by this law also refer to the introduction of an electronic cargo list, the current law stipulates that the transport user must literally go to the railway station to submit, or to take over all the documentation necessary for a particular transport, which represented both unnecessary costs and unnecessary waste of time. The introduction of e-business significantly facilitates the business of all rail transport users, reduces costs, which will have a favourable impact on those businesses who very often use rail transport services, and of course contributes to rationalising rail costs, which we really need at this point, the costs incurred by taking measures to keep the documentation, transfer of transport documents, etc. will certainly facilitate communication between carriers and transport users. All provisions of this legislation relating to passenger transport aim to ensure that the obligations and rights of passengers in the rail traffic of Serbia are identical with the obligations and rights of passengers in other European countries. It is also important that the proposal for this law pays special attention to passengers with special needs, it is certainly not immediately possible in Serbia to achieve the standard that passengers with special needs have in European countries, but it is at all very important that the law includes this category of passengers. In conclusion, and what is really important is that the application of this law will ensure the ability of several railway undertakings to operate, creating conditions for the development of competition on the transport market under equal and transparent conditions. More consumer rights will be ensured, better quality of services, new contractual obligations, and what is very important will contribute to faster restructuring and faster reform of the Railways of Serbia. As the representative of the mandated SPS group said, we will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26294	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26295	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, respected guests, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we have new reform laws, as you most often announce your legislative projects, and for some I can accept such a definition, for the Law on Contracts and Transport and Railway Transport and the Law on Wires and the Law on Agreements with the UAE and the Republic of China, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and the Law on the Use of Sign Language, we will have at the next sessions. These infrastructure laws have something in common, and that's how I want to observe it. What is it that is the common problem of all these laws, because in particular we will discuss each member individually. I think the main problem is what you mentioned at one point, and that's the question of applying these laws. We can agree that these legal projects will improve the rights of users of rail transport and passenger and freight transport and I think we will also arrange this area in accordance with European directives and on cableways, and on many other areas. But I think the key question here is how to implement these legal solutions. What is what we have as an experience? We have adopted many reform laws in this room, but they are often very inapplicable. One of the freshest examples is the Privatisation Act. We have seen how privatized the system is in restructuring to this day. This is one of the laws that will represent me, the problem. I hope it won't be that way, but by ear and making a team that's going to be in Railways in charge of implementing these laws that we're going to adopt here is something that's kind of worrying. So, in the same day, we first had six months without the election of the Director-General of Railways, at one point, and then in one day three candidates announced as future solutions, which tells me about the serious disorientation people will be dealing with and which people will be managed in a system like this that should implement these laws that can be good, but in a way that will be very effective. This requires cooperation with you as a resolute minister and mutual trust and respect. But the way that he made that choice is something that doesn't promise much in that sense, because at that point in that one day three possible solutions speak of a serious disorientation in that sense who will enforce these laws and how they will implement them, which speaks of lack of confidence. Each type of co-operation requires mutual respect and mutual trust. So it's an invitation to that kind of co-operation. What is important and what is often a question for all the authorities in Serbia and for all of us, people who have had experience in public systems, this is a matter of responsibility, as well as general directors and ministers in the management of public systems. So, they're on target now, all public enterprises are being targeted at assaulting the public. By the definition of corrupt, by definition incompetent, those who are making losses and I don't think it's a good atmosphere where important things can be triggered as they are today at this meeting of our Republic of the Assembly. What do I want to suggest? I think it is very important to come, not from technical details and technical laws, but from defining the strategy and defining the public interest and those companies that will deal with exactly the public interest in the Republic of Serbia. That's the first thing, because if we're talking about the railroad and the challenges of the railroad, is it a matter of priority just like this contract? It's a great shift, we've got infrastructure, electronic signature, time stamp, the way to modernize the railroad is and the introduction of electronic documents parallel to written documents. It's all great, but without determining the public interest and the overall strategy, I think we're going to prove again that we're a disintegrated system and that it won't, in the right sense, give the effects of what we're going to adopt in the Republic Assembly. For example, we are talking about investing in the Railways from Belgrade to Budapest. The prime minister announced a speed of 300 kilometers an hour or something less. We have a speed of about 40km per hour in individual shares on the Belgrade-Nish track. We have announced a project to move the railway from the city of Nis in a 14km section, where a decision was adopted in 2011 at the Niš City Assembly, which was also confirmed by guarantees that the funds would be withdrawn from the IPA funds, of some 10m euros, but it was not activated, nor continued with the project. We are talking about public interests and what are priorities of both the Railways and the Ministry, and I think it is important that you hear that, because these are also the questions that citizens ask. So, when will Nis be moved from even freight traffic, where the city centre itself in a 14km section, daily passes a dangerous burden from the direction of Bulgaria towards Belgrade, through the very centre of Nis, repeat, or vice versa, towards Bulgaria? I think that these are important strategic issues not only for Nis but also for many other cities and for all of us, to discuss whether one rail in a 200km section is needed, with speeds of 300km per hour and huge investments measured by billions of euros, or whether we need a strategy in which the average speed in Serbia will be 100km per hour, so that from the end points in Serbia, 500km long, we can cross our territory in five hours. Does it matter to us to go to the 200km section in half an hour and go to the rest of the shares at 40 kilometers average speed? So these are all really serious questions that need to be defined before, and you can now, of course, ask a question, so why some of the previous ones didn't do it. Of course, that is a question, but if certain individual things have been launched that can be integrated into a common and important system for the entire Republic of Serbia, then, even today, it is important to run and that is my proposal to you, as a resolutely competent minister for this area and not only this area, because it is a universal issue for all public systems in the Republic of Serbia. In addition to all of this, I think the next question is because you were talking about separation in the railway corporate process, since we are now talking about the railway, the separation of infrastructure and operators, the separation of infrastructure, the separation of freight traffic, passenger traffic and holding, as I understand you. So, I think it's important to say that the previous issue is the full implementation of the public property law. In 2011, the Public Property Act was adopted with a three-year implementation deadline. Unfortunately, we had to extend that deadline almost a year ago to a new deadline, in order to implement it, which is a prerequisite for real corporation, because the Public Property Act is really a real reform law that needs to define the assets of all public enterprises. This is a prerequisite for defining and sharing shareholders in public enterprises, and this is a prerequisite for the real process of corprovatisation, which should not be reduced as often as is often spoken in many public systems about self-management or mutual competences by verticals, but by the core management of the capital of the state, and in line with the defined public interests, which I spoke about a little earlier. I think that along with these assignments, you need exactly the trust and mutual respect of all the people involved in this process. Accordingly, I would suggest to you, since I think you have sufficient capacity to propose these solutions, that it is necessary to urgently access the adoption of a new law that would regulate the area of activity of general interest, who and under what conditions it can carry out, which obligations it accepts by carrying out them, and the reasons that lead to the loss of the right to exercise rights, the exercise of activity of general interest. So, the organisation of this area is a prerequisite for public enterprises, for their division into infrastructure and for those who are operators, and this is not only about the Railways, but also about other public systems. In order to give an additional argument on this proposal, I will remind you that, if you didn't know it, and I think it is a serious public interest in Serbia, that the Serbian and Post Office signed a investment contract five years ago in a joint infrastructure with the fact that the Railway has a corridor in its property that extends the railway infrastructure and the Post Office which was ready to invest in laying up optical cables, with a common interest of two state systems and I am convinced and the interest of the state of Serbia for all reasons, communication, security, investment in this infrastructure, and the Railway has had its own benefit in establishing greater security on that infrastructure and in establishing better control of its traffic. We know how many problems we have at the level of ramps and crossings that annually carry a huge number of victims in Serbia. That is one reason, and some of the reasons are the modernisation of these two state systems that have sufficient capacity and which can invest if the state of Serbia thinks it is necessary and necessary and that it is in its public interest. That project was stopped at some point. So it's not the only project that can be reactivated, but I think there are a lot of challenges that can be considered in such a way and that the mutual capacity of many public systems that are currently being viewed as completely independent, and the state is the common owner of exactly the largest share of the capital of these systems that I believe will not enter the privatisation process. What I want to say about the proposal put forward on the adoption of a new law that would regulate the area of action of general interest is that Serbia must definitely take a stand on ownership, that is, privatisation of public enterprises. Therefore, the announced implementation of highly controversial and not transparent procedures for the sale of part of the capital of public enterprises rather than the implementation of procedures, the arrangements of the previously described issues, I am convinced, the permanent damage to the Republic of Serbia. I hope you'll agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26296	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26297	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected ministry associates, respected fellow MPs and MPs, today we have two laws and three agreements. I will speak today, as they would not repeat themselves, of the bill on transport contracts in railways. This law lays down contractual and other bonding relations in the field of public transport of passengers and things in domestic rail transport. What is unfortunately necessary is a complete reform of rail traffic. Twenty years here we've heard comments from various distinguished colleagues who just don't stand. Twenty years of not investing. You know what that means? It's a disaster. Our railroad is really in disaster. I have no comment on my colleagues' comments from the opposition. They might imagine what they did in 20 years, and we did, by one, a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Hungary on the modernisation of the railway. The track will be 350km long, something that has not been seen in Serbia, fortunately for us, our government and the ministries that are doing this project. This railroad will be run by two countries with Chinese partners. The average speed is going to be 140 kilometers, and the maximum speed is 200 kilometers. So we'll finally be in Europe. What I would like to point out is that the track through Serbia will be 184km long, and through Hungary 166km and we are doing idea solutions and feasibility study, the Republic of Serbia for its territory, the Republic of Hungary for its own, and these two projects and feasibility studies are given to Chinese partners who will unite projects from a feasibility study and can finally access the realisation, i.e. to build a fast track. What does that mean? That, above all, means the modernisation of the railroad, and therefore the transport of goods and passengers. Given that we are now talking about passenger traffic, we are fortunate that both the Ministry and the Government have approved, that is, a project is being created for another transport route, which means much more transport between Hungary, and not only Hungary, all the countries that come to Hungary and go towards Serbia. We are fortunate to meet where we are, in many moments of misfortune over the many wars we have survived, but in this case, happiness, because we can be the headquarters of the trans-Balkan railway, which would mean filling the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that is what is particularly paying attention. What I'd say is, as far as this high-speed railroad is concerned, one, a improvement, two, a budget charge. Well, is there anything better? In 20 years, nothing has been invested, and now we're talking about something that is simply necessary. We are doing everything by law, because we want to join the EU, and these are simply some things with which there is no playing, simply something that needs to be passed, a directive, which would be said, from the EU. What is still very important to say about investment, we are fortunate to have been interested in investing in the Railways of Serbia both Indian companies and French. So there's going to be investments. In Serbia, it is currently started with the reconstruction of the railway and will be done in three to four years about 500km of track. Given that we know that our rails have endured quite a bit, rusted, that we have a cemetery of wagons, our government has made every effort to make sure that never happens again, and therefore there will be an ememic project, an improvement for the Republic of Serbia. What is tragic is currently 17,078 people working in "The Railways of Serbia". Serbia's railways are large, however, this number may simply be for a country that is five times larger than ours, and secondly, the average age is 46 years. That's why reforms are necessary and I support this. Not only do I support it, I'm thrilled. It is a improvement for Serbia, we are moving towards the EU and they will be completed within four years. Currently in the reconstruction of the railway, the Sopot-Kosmaj Kovačevac shares on the Belgrade-Mladenovac-Nish railway line from the Russian loan. Good for the government and the Ministry. The reasons for amending this law are primarily two new laws, one is the law on railways, and the other is the law on railway safety and interoperability that are in line with the first three packages of the EU and its directive. Why? First of all, we as a country of EU accession must support and bring all the laws, and secondly, the directive is a directive, either we will be on the market or we will never be, we will be, as my distinguished colleague, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, says - we will drive the diligans. This is inadmissible for the 21st century. The railways in Europe are mostly fast, except perhaps these Balkan ones. I hope it ends very soon, here, I said for a four-year period. As far as these laws are concerned, they've got a lot of improvements. What is still to be said is that we must comply with our regulations with the EU directive and with the protocol of the 1999 Convention, so-called. COTIF, and it's about international rail transport, and that's very good. As for the 2007 Convention 1371, it concerns passenger rights, and that is very good again, because travellers from the Republic of Serbia will have the same rights as passengers from other countries, which in the environment, which throughout Europe. That's another improvement. So first, a divine contract, a good contract, a quality contract that will bring us a budget of the Republic of Serbia. What else to say, we're working fast, efficient. What is the primary objective is primarily to increase the overall transport efficiency, without which there are no improvements, unification of basic transport documents and, ultimately, the introduction of electronic business that will contribute greatly to saving time and money. Of course, the SNS will support the proposals of these laws and agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26298	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. He's not here. The word has a National MP, Sinisa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26299	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honored Minister with fellow Members, has invested large funds over the past ten years in the construction of cableways in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and especially on our most beautiful and greatest mountain of Kopalnik. Today, as part of this joint search, we are also discussing the proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of persons. This is the new law, which for the first time in a unique, systematic and comprehensive way, regulates cableways in order to ensure a greater level of protection of life, health and safety of persons using cableways. The law prescribes conditions for their construction, reconstruction and maintenance, as well as conditions for the installation of cableways, for the use of subsystems and safety components of cableways for the transport of persons, the management of facilities, the bodies and organisations that will be responsible for the implementation of this law, as well as the authorities for the exercise of supervision of the application of this law. We think it is a good thing we will have a comprehensive legal act, because Serbia has several systems of cableways that are primarily located in winter tourist centres. This is how we approach modern European legislation and in this area. The two-sided benefit is achieved by regulating the issue of cableways. On the one hand, the prescribed standards and procedures for existing cableways we use will be ensured, and on the other hand, future investors will be obliged to adhere to the legislation of prescribed standards and procedures by installation and exploitation. What is required when designing a cableway is required is to produce a safety analysis covering all safety conditions for the installation of cableways and the environment, which relate to the design, construction and operation of the cableways themselves. The issue of cableways as a means of transport should be approached in Serbia from the point of view of the development of our tourist offer, because for now, other than freight transport cable used on some mining spears, the cableways are used only for tourist purposes. I know that the existence and efficient and safe operation of cableways in winter resorts is one of the important motives for the arrival of tourists, both domestic and foreign, because everyone who comes in winter to a tourist centre wants to have all the conditions for a pleasant and safe holiday and skiing, which is why they chose the mountain resort. Let me remind you that our mountain centers are constantly equipped with new wires. In Kopalnik, as the largest winter ski centre, there is a system of 24 cable companies of different capacities that can carry 36,000 tourists per hour, which puts our largest winter tourist centre in line with the most equipped in this part of Europe. As the greatest tourist potential, the Kopalnik still needs to develop. This means that the Kopalnik must continue to think about new cableways, not just hotels. Also, this ski centre should also think about expanding the tracks themselves, given that a large number of cableways have been built in recent years, so the tracks themselves have become somewhat narrowed down from the skier. Capital investment for this country should be in this area to build a gondola from Brzec to Kopalnik. That gondola would not only be used during the ski season, but also throughout the year. Also, you should consider connecting the settlements on the other side of the Kopalnik, when it comes to this part of Raska. But not only the Kopalnik, but also other winter centres, such as Zlatibor and Stara Planina, Bezovica, Divchibar and Golia, should be developed in the next period. The law regulates that the work of the cablemen is handled by a legal person, who has full responsibility for the safe operation of the cablers, maintenance, reconstruction. In our practice, the railways in Serbia are run by the Public Enterprise "Ski Resorts of Serbia". This law also provides precise arrangements for emergency situations that may arise in the course of cable use. The mandatory presence of the emergency service, the rapid intervention service and the mountain rescue service is also foreseen. Also, the law regulates the issue of inspection supervision by the Republic's rail inspectors. This way completes the responsibility for all phases, from building to using control over the operation of the controller. Thus, after supervision, the inspector may prohibit the operation of the cableway, until the shortage is removed, from punishing the manager or responsible worker, and a large number of fines for various violations in the application of this law have been prescribed. I also see this law as a significant legal framework created by the state and a significant incentive measure for domestic and foreign investment in Serbian tourism. At the end of the line, the aim of this law should be to increase investment in winter tourism and increase the foreign exchange inflow from mountain tourism which in our country, besides Banj and Belgrade, is the most attractive type of tourist offer. In the end, I would like to say that the Public Business "Skistations of Serbia" is well managed by these entrusted businesses, construction and construction of cableways. This company has a young and professional leadership. They simply referred all knowledge and energy to the development of ski centres in Serbia. In the end, I want to say that the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26300	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. He's not here. ) The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26301	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, with my associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will remain in today's presentation at the proposal for a law on lifts for the transport of faces. This is a new law in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which for the first time in a comprehensive and comprehensive way regulates this matter on facial cableways. We all know that so far this matter has been partially regulated through several laws and sublegal acts, but the drive to comply with European standards, as well as the fact that the state of play in the field, imposes the need to pass this and this law. Also, the increasingly intense development of tourism and the expansion of tourism facilities are conditioned by adequate legal regulations that will create legal frameworks for smooth functioning and, above all, the safe functioning of the cable system. It is indisputable that in recent years tourist activity has been intensified on our mountains in Kopalnik, the Old Mountain, Zlatibor, Bezovica, but it is also evident that there are real needs for expanding existing tourist facilities, both by building new accommodation facilities and by building and editing accompanying facilities, in this case, cableways. Since the law of this species is first passed with us, one of my own opinions and may be recommended in this law that the times that come to supplement and perfect, according to the requirements of the profession, but also the state of the field, of course, with the active involvement of all relevant factors closely linked to this matter, both in the field and in taking and applying the experience of Western European countries, especially the countries in the Alpine Belt, which for many years this issue has been resolved and arranged. Since this is about protecting human lives, about the safety of people who will use cableway transport, the law details all activities related to the design, construction, release and maintenance of the cableway system, in order to prevent and avoid any accidents and accidents and to protect human lives, start from project building, field analysis, through building permits, afterwards obtaining a useful permit for the release of cableways, because without the use of the driver's permission, it cannot and must not begin work, until the repairs are performed once a year, and, if necessary, more frequently. By this law, we will try to remove all the gaps that have existed so far and which have been recorded in practical work, so that in the day to vote, in addition to this bill, we will, of course, support all the laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26302	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26303	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Arsic, respected Mrs Mihajlovic, and honored guests and guests, I suppose, from the Ministry and from the Railways, I say, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic has already announced in his debate that we, the People's MPs of the New Party, will vote for the adoption of all draft laws united in the context of a joint principled and uniform search today. But I would like to make two notes, above all Mrs. Mihajlovic, which seem very important to me for this debate today. First of all, we, despite the fact that we believe this is a good bill, have specifically focused on one and submitted 12 amendments to the proposal for legislation on transport contracts in railways. These amendments of ours, gentlemen, concern three groups of questions. I only ask all our guests, from the Government, from the Ministry, to pay special attention to the analysis of our proposals through the amendments we submitted to the Assembly. One group of amendments, of course, as is the order and practice that we, I think, have introduced into our National Assembly, concerns the respect of the spirit, not only the spirit, Mr Arsic, but the rules of the Serbian language that we serve in our country. The second group of amendments concerns the precision of the content of individual members and changes of those members, such as Articles 4, 7 or 23. Here, I'm going to give a note to our guests right now. For example, Article 23(2) provides that bicycles are to be transported as baggage under the conditions of a prescribed tariff. For example, we think it should change. This is just one example, maybe one not so important thing in the whole of the law, but still little to commit. We believe that bicycles should be transported as hand luggage if they are brought into a car designed for such transport. So we don't have a tariff in that case. I believe that this should be considered, that this type of innovation and the third group of amendments should also be introduced in terms of deadline cuts. For example, in Article 34, the legislator, and on behalf of the proposer Mrs Mihajlovic, in the position of Article 3, provided for a period of six months for a certain type of intervention if something happens during the journey, etc. We believe that this deadline should be reduced to three months, because it seems to us that I have already agreed to accept this. Well done. So you listen very carefully. Bravo. Great. Then let me move on to another note, gentlemen. With circumstances since we had previously discussed "Belgrade on Water", critics "Beograda on Water" identified as people who are similar to the critics of the construction of the Railway in the late 19th century. I came under the circumstances, gentlemen, to do research, to build our railroad in the 19th century, to discuss the debates in the Assembly about how the construction contracts were under way, to exploit the railroad. And one thing that came to me was a conclusion that I couldn't believe was possible. I believe we all need to think about it here a little bit. In 1881, here are the stenographic notes, the MPs once again here to say, they didn't know what the railroad was, or what the wagon was, or what the locomotive was, they didn't know what it looked like. Here, one of them Trifun Jeremic, he says here himself – I have something to talk about even though I don't know what it is. But what happened to the construction of the railway was certainly some big modernization thing for Serbia at the time. The construction of the railway was a great opportunity for Serbia. The construction of the railway was a great potential 130 years later, gentlemen, here in this year we are, and Mrs. Mihajlović, simply to ask ourselves, there is no particular criticism of any individual. A hundred and thirty years later, reading these notes, following this debate, today, for example, we can conclude that we have gone back, not in terms, but we have returned our train today. Our train travels longer from Belgrade to Nis than it traveled in the second half of the 1980s, the 19th century, gentlemen. And this issue of the railroad, Mr. Arsic, I'll be done in 10 seconds if you'll allow me, is I think it's a good reason to think about it and we all do that. To use our chances and be effective in our work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26304	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You are absolutely right that Serbia missed many trains by 2012. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26305	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, I also agree with the predecessor who said nicely that at that time when the debate about the railway was held at the time of King Milan, many did not know what the wagon was, or what the railroad was, or anything. It seems to me that the ones you support now also didn't know that, because if they did, they wouldn't have ruined the railroad like they ruined it. The stone on the stone didn't stay in our railroad. What's worse for me is when we talk about the Railways, it's an incredible and cramping battle that's going to be in the administration of our Railways, or who's going to be the director or who's going to be in some place in a system that's completely rotten and decomposed and just like your colleague just said earlier, so today you're traveling far more from Belgrade to Nis by train than you might have traveled in the 19th century. We, unfortunately, have brought our Railways down to that, to some period of Balkan wars, and it is a complete disaster. No one alive has any desire to get on the train. Here, get on our trains, it's empty, there's no living souls, especially on these local lines. I am truly happy that we are passing a law like this that raises standards, but in order for us to raise certain standards, we first have to go from zero, and that is to arrange how the railway works, especially in the era when the rail itself is not rentable anywhere in the world. One France that has a fantastic network doesn't have a viable passenger train. It is exclusively profitable that it serves as a means of transporting cargo, especially military and so on, and that is why it is very important to us. It says right here, and I'm baffled by it, in the light of the law that we're the part about passengers, the last time the law was passed in 1974. So, when approximately the SFRY Constitution began to part Yugoslavia. That's the last time we passed a law that regulated the rights of passengers, the transportation of passengers and so on in the railways, and that says enough how much we cared about the railway. So everyone has to say hello. I also believe that in opposition, I don't believe that anyone will vote against this law because this is a civilization step first and simply a chance for people driving by rail to be provided with them in one way and luggage and they themselves to be provided. You know, we have a big problem, and it's often gonna happen to you that people who travel, for example by some international route, are afraid, say, of thieves in cars themselves. They come across, they come in, they rob you, they take your wallet, they take all your documents, everything, everything, and we have terrible problems. What I'm going to do, and I'm going back to where I started, is particularly annoying at the railroad, and that's this battle that's going to be in the administration, like it's very important instead of improving the railroad system. When you're reading the papers, I hope that's not so true, but when they come up with some data, especially in internal control, so when they say this one's stolen this much, this fuel this much. You know, those are scary numbers. We spent millions and millions of euros, hundreds of millions of euros on everything and everything, on thieving, on riding, on everything and everything, and that's why today we have the railroad as we have. I hope this law prevents much and raises standards for the railroad itself. You know, there's a lot of talk here about privatizing the railroad, I don't want to get into it, but I have to be honest, I'm not sure who'd want to buy it the way it is right now. As far as the second law on cableways is concerned, I'm not someone who practices winters, nor the right to tell you I have money for such a thing, but tourism is certainly a very important branch. We have wonderful potential, but I've always wondered, even like this, when you go to day two, who runs those wires. I wasn't really willing to sit down like that except when I was forced and the right to tell you I didn't feel safe. And what is now being introduced really requires certain standards that must have either the owner of a cable car or a public company that is managed by you to meet. I need to be honest with you to ask you a question. Are you sure that someone in our house can do it? I hope that it can and that it will really get someone serious into this business and, of course, our public enterprises, but these are really high standards and, of course, it has to be that way. However, the question arises whether we really have the capacity, whether I have people who are willing to get into this kind of work, and of course the security of citizens is something that is most important, and in accordance with this, I fully support the adoption of such a law that will contribute to much to the fact that our tourist capacities are definitely increasing. In any case, anyone who thinks about citizens will vote for these two laws and I hope that those who destroyed the Railway as termites by yesterday will still support the deep awareness that with our Railway there is much that is wrong and that they will still support something like this that really contributes to the improvement of our Railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26306	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. All right. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr Arsic, Mrs Mihajlovic, and distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the ministry, Mr Arsic, you have now, instead of taking care to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as chairman of today's session of the National Assembly, violated Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly when you commented, without answering the word, my presentation. Dear gentlemen, here's to show you that Mr. Arsic has now injured the Rules of Procedure and in the voting day we all vote for him to hurt the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Namely, article 100 states: “The President of the National Assembly, in this case the chairman – when chaired by the National Assembly, if he wants to participate in the search, leaves the presidency to one of the vice presidents of the National Assembly. ” Then he goes nice and nice in his place here and discusses it. What did Mr. Arsic do before? I made my remarks here regarding a bill. Mrs. Mihajlovic even said some amendments would be accepted. So, we agreed here on some improvement of something and Mr. Arsic, after I have finished, instead of saying – thank you, MP Pavicevic, has the word and that, Mr. Arsic, respected gentlemen, adds his words to my presentation. Where's that, Mr. Arsic? Mr. Arsic says – you're right, Mr. Pavicevic, there was a collapse in 2012. Mr. Arsic, you have no right, not according to the Rules of Procedure, or any basis, to add, Mr. Arsic, your words to my statement. Mr. Arsic, if you have any thoughts of your own, say the word, leave it, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, the chairmanship of the other vice president and say, Mr. Arsic, as Mr. Arsic was your idea. I'm asking you to come forward on voter day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26308	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I'll explain anyway. I don't see what I've broken Article 100 into. Rules of Procedure, I just agreed with your discussion, and believe me, it's much better for me to chair than to come down among the MPs and take part in the discussion, especially for you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26309	The Honorable President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, honored guests, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, I will start by taking advantage of my right and I have the right to, as a national MP who has been delegated to the votes of the citizens, give my opinion and agree with my colleague that we have gone backwards in the previous period. This was in the period since 2012, when the SNS took responsibility for the conduct of the Republic of Serbia and from year to year, and in particular 2014, took full responsibility for all the laws that are in the process, all the laws that have been passed, which are now in the process and which will be passed, and among other things these laws that are on today's agenda, are leading to the introduction of order, to improving the state's state of affairs, to the application of rights, to the application of freedom and to improving the conditions and life of all citizens in Serbia. The proposal of the Law on Wires for the Transport of Persons, which the Government has submitted, and which is the first in this area, cannot agree with colleagues from the opposition who dispute this and this bill, because they simply have nothing to compare it with. For all the years, their authorities have not found it appropriate to pass any law that could be compared to this "our". This is a law that introduces order in one area that is very important, above all for tourism, not only winter but also summer. Because it is the Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Stara Planina, Divcibara, perhaps one day Cer or another mountain, perhaps Fruska Gora, just because of this law can create the possibility of a public-private partnership or any other form of investment which would make tourism, and Serbia, by God, is a country for tourism, has just created conditions for it to be realized. The development of mountain centers is possible, but these laws will be raised to a higher level and someone who wants to participate in development will know in what way and under what conditions. Until we passed this law we didn't have a clear definition of what a wire is, or what a wire is to transport a face and exactly what it takes, this law contains. Of course, there are no perfect laws, so neither is this one. This ministry, this government, and this Assembly, is ready to accept everything that is good and will behave accordingly, but what is voted on in this assembly will be the best possible thing at the moment. The bill on rail transport contracts is also a law amending the current law. I'll remind you, and it's already been said, it's a law that's been in force since 1995. Is it possible that no one was needed for all these years and did not consider it necessary to advance? Because from 1995 to 2015 it's a 20-year range. Modern technologies have been applicable for many years and are applied in other railways, and we have not changed the law that was passed since 1995, in the old Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. This law is currently modern, bringing international solutions or solutions to be applied in advanced European countries in the railway area. However, this government and this ministry do not prescribe laws, but adapts them to the Republic of Serbia, and this very proposal, with respect for European flows and solutions that are in place in Europe, is simply applied and will be used in accordance with the conditions and conditions and things and the situation that we have in the Republic of Serbia, or in the railways of the Republic of Serbia. Two draft laws – on confirming the Agreement on Air Traffic, both with China and with the United Arab Emirates, are certainly only evidence of extremely good and traditional, but we can say, good co-operation, both with China, now and with the United Arab Emirates. These are agreements that simply show and prove that this government has many more friends than any government had before, it has much better co-operation with all countries, not only in the region but in the whole world, we have become a leader in air traffic, not only in this region, but throughout Europe. What is expected in the coming period, which is only enlargement and increase, not only the positive image of the Republic of Serbia, but also the economic situation itself in Serbia. It is these laws that confirm what practice is, and practice is good relations with China and the Emirates, and there is no need to slow down everything at all costs. What is good, and this is good, must be supported by all those who think well to the Republic of Serbia. In this assembly, it is indeed an absolute majority and in the next period, except for these agreements with these countries, we have adopted a large number of agreements in the previous period, and in the next period, with those with which it has not been established, and they are getting smaller and it will be over. As the fifth Bill on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia, in the area of rail transport, i.e. border procedures, we have already signed agreements with the countries of the environment, like these and similar, and they only show that we and our neighbours, with the countries of the environment, have the best possible relations and that we will do whatever is necessary to raise these relations to a higher level. What I just want to say for the end is that the basic arguments for these agreements and these proposals are simply that there are no negative effects, there are no negative arguments that would challenge any of these proposals and all those who want good Serbia and want good for their citizens, they simply have to support this. All that's negative and what's been connected to the railroad at all, to transport, is simply our past. This Ministry and this Government, with the help of the National Assembly, will adopt all those laws that are needed to be equally with EU countries, simply be competitors, not some passing station on the path of European states, or European transport. What's in the announcement is that the rail traffic itself by the model used in air traffic means that it's possible to show the Air Serbia Administration, yes, it's possible to make a profitable enterprise out of one big loser, which, apart from operating profitablely with big income, increases the positive image not only of these governments, not only of these congregations, but also of the whole state. This is also possible with Railways, the problem is big, but unlike other governments, this government has defined what problems are and will do whatever it takes for these problems to be solved as quickly and as best as possible. In voting day, I call on all those who want Serbia well to simply support these bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26310	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26311	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers of the Republic of Serbia with associates, dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia who are monitoring today's work, I will first say that I certainly support a set of laws, a bill on cableways for the transport of persons, as well as contracts, three agreements on today's agenda. We've heard a lot of arguments in favour of the passing of these laws, but I would use my time to look back at one of the laws, and that's the Law of Wires for the transportation of faces. I'll do it for two reasons. The first reason is that this is really a new law, which is the first time he has regulated a very important area in a unique way, which is the cableways. He's boredom in some parts, he's been talking about the cable bill and the law on public ski resorts. The second reason why I look back at this law today is the one that particularly delights me, which is the trend of the development of mountains, mountain centers in Serbia, but I would say it's a very important project, a state, a national project, but this time I want to express a great opportunity and for the municipality from which I come, it's the municipality of Ivanica. I have to say we have more mountains in Ivanjica, but this time I want to look back on Mount Golia. All planning documents, starting with the spatial plan of the Republic of Serbia, through the strategy for development of the economy, tourism development strategies, regional development, development of sports, are in favour of investing in the development of the Golia ski centre. What joys is that all the planning documents in the main are completed. There's a serious investment plan, an action plan, and so far, of course, everything's going according to plan. But I'd say the plans are plans, it's very important to come to their realization. As far as Golia is concerned, I must say to this occasion that it is the most foresty mountain in Serbia, that it is protected at international level, but also at the state level, because it was declared a biosphere reserve and protected from UNESCO. It is a unique example in Serbia. As far as national protection is concerned, it is protected because Golia is declared a nature park. What all the analysis is saying, how far this project is realized, and I don't think there's any reason it won't be realized, the capacity for one day is foreseen for 46,000 visitors. It's not just ski resorts, it's all country tourism. This project is important, not only for Ivanjica municipality, but also for those municipalities that are gravitating, these are the municipalities of Raška, Novi Pazar and Sjenica. But since our municipality has not developed rail or air or water traffic, for the realisation of this project and how important it is to build a highway. Building a highway would help open Mount Golia for investors, investment and finally Ivanica would start its own dead economy, so to speak. It's a big chance and we're putting a lot of hope into it. As far as the law itself is concerned, we know that cableways are necessary and ski resorts, that their development will improve tourism, but not just tourism, but overall economic development. The reasons for the adoption of this law are, of course, what this area will do in a unique way, but what we will do is protect Serbia's greatest resource, which is life and health, with this law. Of course, security because our cablemen must be safe and another reason the minister said at first is to prevent unfair competition. I don't want to repeat myself, I want to point out that the positive effects of this law are multiple. They refer to direct users, but also to those indirect and, of course, why not say, for all interested groups, this is an affirmative term here, we will not be prejudiced that term has a negative connotation, because the second time has come, there has come a new government that works in a completely different way and I also thank the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure for what will finally start to be built in Serbia and that it is done and that, finally, it is certain, for all of our citizens an orderly country of Serbia in which we will live. Of course, this law has formed a working group and we had a public debate and what to say in the end is that I, along with all SNS MPs, would be very pleased to support these laws, vote for all five proposals for legal solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26312	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26313	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, the SPO DHSS I see in the mood and other parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will support the laws and agreements that are on the agenda because they cannot be seriously objected to. It is good that the law on cableways is for the transport of persons, which is first passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is really necessary to improve the investment potential, to improve the safety of life protection, the health of persons using cableway transport and it is good that entities not only control and manage cableways are established, but also clear standards for designing, for safety, for service, or remonting for a kind of technical examination on an annual basis, which will in any case be one firm hand that will prevent as little walking in this area as possible. What SPO and DHSS expect, in addition to improving our country's investment potential, is that because of these standards that we introduce, this will bring some other tourists who are highly informed about where they are going, where they should spend their money and what conditions, among other things, are the conditions of this type of security. As far as the Law on Transport Contracts in Railways is concerned, it is one of the topics and in general the rail traffic which we are dealing with since the establishment of our political party and the response to the bad situation in the Railways, and what indeed the Republic of Serbia is doing in the normative part is following all European regulations, which the regulations in the rail traffic in Europe are essentially reformed. Everything's different than 20, 30 or 40 years ago. The new concept is the regulation of the Railways, new entities, different relationships, different terminology, new institutions were created and we created new businesses and separated entities, participants in rail traffic. The traditional concept of railway arrangements has been abandoned, but our railway is still at the level where it was when the Kingdom of Serbia introduced rail traffic in Serbia in 1800. So where we were 135 years ago, we're here today. The answer to what makes it so is of course systemic nature and we are the political party that any topic to launch in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, when you look at the history of the institution's relationship, the reason why it is bad, then you will see that the reasons are mostly the violent change of social order in 1945 and in a project of socialist communism, which of course failed everywhere in the world, and so it failed with us. And everything that was the product of that system went down and the railways went down. If we in the world today have the fact that many locomotives that are museum exhibits are younger than locomotives that are on our tracks, then that information speaks for itself enough. If we know that only 2.5% of the track is allowed speeds from 100 to 120 kilometers per hour, that, say, from Belgrade to the White Field travels eight and a half hours, from Belgrade to Bar 16, 17, 18, 20, 20 and a few hours, that several thousand departures are cancelled annually, that huge losses for the economy, for the country, that we have failed to take advantage of this phenomenal geostrategic position that we can be an important railway node. We are geostrategic, but we did not take advantage of this position between Europe and Southeast Europe, that we could in international rail traffic, which is cheap all over the world, which is also popular in the transport of passengers to take advantage of that opportunity, then it is seen that the losses on all sides are truly enormous and that the most suffering is the state, which is such a bad system and produced. It is simply that our railways are in such a bad state that the average age of the bus tracks is 35 years, that the age of locomotives and wagons is close to 40 years, that they are indeed decades of problems, that even the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, when she took that famous Russian loan, had no adequate projects, so she had to pay for the penalty for undrawn funds. This shows an absolute irresponsibility of the state and state railways, which the state created, the state is the chief employer and the main culprit for the situation in these railways and the railway workers were indeed up until a year ago, two days ago saying that they had the impression that the management of the railway was the most responsible for not carrying any transport at all, the state transferred them subsidies. It's done all over the world, and they live on subsidies. Serbia's Renewal Movement and the DHSS will support the Air Traffic Agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the UAE government, the overrich kingdom, again the kingdoms again a good and orderly system on the Arab Peninsula. We expect the UAE, given that Etihad bought 49% of JAT's actions, to announce large investments in Serbia from the UAE, we expect this agreement to be another incentive impulse for even better investment co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the UAE. What I missed to say about rail transport, we used to do so to some other ministers, not only Mrs. Mihajlović, we said simply until our condition changed and the railways were modernised, until passengers and goods and safety transport improved, and until the railways were reconstructed, new and modern tow and towed resources were obtained, until we got closer to the world in that part. Today in the world, it's a luxury to travel by rail. Today in the world, it is a luxury to go to railway stations, take out a business partner or a political partner for lunch or dinner. It's a prestigious thing. There, King Milan Obrenović and the Kingdom had another view of state railways. Then the railway stations were one of the most beautiful places, of the most beautiful buildings, decorated, painted, with flowers. It was a real pleasure to go to the train station. But, I say, we had this failed communism...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26314	Thank you, Mr. Chiquirizu. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26315	Thank you. Dear Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, today, I will repeat for the public, we are discussing a united debate on four draft laws: the draft law on cableways for the transport of persons, the draft law on transport contracts in railway transport, the bill on the approval of an air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the UAE and the draft air traffic agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. As my esteemed colleague Marko Djurisic said, we will support these agreements because the agreements are good for every country, including Serbia. They mean to expand and strengthen contacts between states. I, at the risk of repeating myself, because a lot is said about these proposals, will first and foremost say that the proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of persons, on which we have submitted 35 amendments to 67 members and that is the law where we have the most grudges, will talk more in the day when we talk about details. My colleague Marko Djurisic said a lot about this bill, so I wouldn't repeat myself. As for the draft law on transport contracts in rail transport, I think it is good and necessary, that this is a alignment with European directives and that it is a good thing that, as the Minister said, by the end of the year, all sublegal acts will be brought forward to ensure that this bill, i.e. When adopted in the National Assembly, he could have full application. It's a good thing that the Serbia Railway, and we heard from the Minister's office that we essentially have a railway that works between 10% and 30% of its possible capacity, to modernise, to renovate the railways, to renovate these compositions that will traffic those railways, and it's a good thing that there will be a fast track between Belgrade and Budapest, through Vojvodina. It's a good thing your trains are going 300 kilometers or 150. At the end of the line, it doesn't matter how fast it goes. The important thing is that it will go faster than these 30km average or something below 30km through Serbia, which is currently active. What I'd like to use is to ask Mrs. Minister, because there's a big misunderstanding in the city of Nis, especially when it comes to rail traffic, and that's moving the railroad from downtown. Citizens of Nisa and you know very well that in 2011, arrangements were made and funds were planned to be withdrawn through IPA funds, which was about the end of 2011, at about nine million euros, which were to be used for designing and expropriation. Let me remind you that it's 14.5 kilometers of new route, i.e. the parts where the new route is scheduled to pass for the removal of rail traffic from the city centre, and the money used for the expropriation refers to 4.5 kilometers where the expropriation has not yet been made. Since 2012, it's been caring. What the citizens of Nis are asking is a story that is circulating through the city that there will be electricity on the existing route, which we think is inadmissible, because that means that we will literally and physically divide the city into two parts, which in the 21st century shouldn't happen, so I would ask you, Madam Minister, to answer us, because it's one inconceivable, at least that people know what this government's position is, and how it's going to solve as a problem that's been tormented for decades by the citizens of Nis. The second is what I would refer to, and that is the proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement in air traffic. I'd like to mention a few data to make it clear to the citizens what these agreements are. There are two types of agreements. These are multilateral agreements and bilateral agreements. These agreements, which we will now verify, are in the balance of bilateral agreements. They need to introduce a completely free traffic, but with the so-called. State disignment. This means that any state of the signatories can fly any company, it is thought of one or more signatories, previously designated by the state's air authority. Furthermore, agreements do not prescribe any restrictions in traffic either by the number of frequencies or by the type of aircraft, which means that the airlines themselves are authorized to determine how long they will fly, which days and which planes. They're obliged to inform the state they're running into or where they're flying. Furthermore, agreements in their annexes determine how many points the state allows to fly. The agreement with the United Arab Emirates gives full freedom, i.e. unlimited number of points, while the agreement with China allows only three points of our choice and does not apply, according to experts, to flying in Hong Kong, Makau and Taiwan. Furthermore, agreements introduce mutual recognition of credentials and authorisations. What is an integral part of all these agreements, dispute resolution is a different solution. In agreement with the United Arab Emirates, disputes are settled through negotiations, and then arbitration, while the Agreement with China prescribes that disputes are settled by negotiations, and then, as it says in the agreement, diplomatic channels, and I would like you to explain it a little more. What I have heard from the people of the profession, and that is one clue, so I would ask you to answer that here, which is that both international agreements that are on the agenda predict the existence of a general accepted standard of ownership and effective management of companies. That's what the people who do it say. This means, here, I will read to you – that all the rights and privileges prescribed by these agreements apply only to companies located in the dominant ownership of the State of the signatorium or its national and which are under effective control and by the administration of the State of the signatories or its citizen. The agreement with the United Arab Emirates is not a problem, absolutely not a problem, but what is imposed as a dilemma, and I would ask you to answer that, is an agreement with China, because although Air Serbia is 51% majority owned by the Republic of Serbia, it is evident that we have a signed agreement with Etihad on the management and management of the company, which we openly acknowledge that we do not have operational control over the company and that it is done by a foreign owner. I ask-- will it possibly be a problem and will it be a problem in communication and in realising an agreement with the People's Republic of China? I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26316	The words of Vice-President and Government Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26317	Just for a little while. A few issues were important, related to the agreement. It won't have any effect, this last thing you asked. It's an even more important question to me, because there's twice a story about a bypass in Nis. So IPA funds fund the project. It can be said that it ends, but that there are variations that are proposed and that are extremely expensive and that it is now watched as to how to find that variant that is most financially appropriate, and in this sense to satisfy what we need. So we're going to send you an answer in writing, right in detail, because I think this is an important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26318	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26319	Dear Chairman, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, fellow MPs and MPs, will talk about the proposal for a law on cableways for the transport of persons. Mountain tourism has huge potential in Serbia. Over 50% of Serbia's territory is a mountain-mounted terrain, and all the largest mountain centres are at an altitude of between 1,000 and 2.5 thousand meters, which favours the rapid air-conditioning of guests of different affinities. The largest and most visited mountain centre in Serbia, and also the national park is Kopalnik. The bathroom has the largest number of trails for winter sports and sports fields, so a large number of sports teams and teams there come for altitude preparation and summer and winter. In modern conditions, the participation of tourism in the DBP of the world is about 10%, and tourism makes more than 6% of the world's total exports and about 30% of the world's trade in services. According to the World Tourism Organisation, tourism is fourth in the international transport of goods and services, and behind the transport of oil and petroleum products, products of the chemical industry and cars. Tourism, in doing so, is one of the most important export performances in 83% of countries and is the main source of foreign exchange earnings in nearly 38% of countries in the world. In global tourist flows, in the coming years, there will be three basic directions: moving towards warm seas, towards mountainous tourist centres and towards large cities. Mountain centers, from appearance to present, are developed in two directions, and as: sports and recreation areas to meet the needs for physical activities and as mountain tourist centres with accommodation facilities that surround the tourist product. Wires as a means of transport have long history. In fact, the old Japanese, the Chinese, the Indians, used ropes to transport on the ground, because other transport systems were not possible to transport people and goods. Wires, as we now know, come from the beginning of the 20th century, when in 1907, in Spain, the first real cable car. In the Alps, development began by building a cable car in Bolcan, South Tyrol. The main motives for the development of mountain tourism are seen in the advantages of transporting cableways that are most environmentally acceptable, occupy the least space, pollute the environment at least and due to the minimum amount of external costs incurred in transport. The development of cableway systems enables the development of summer and winter tourism and in areas that are demographically endangered and have no other developmental options or their developmental capabilities limited. Wires and ski resorts are usually located close to the existing rural settlements, which ensures multi-purpose use of the area. In this way, the population is offered a greater chance of surviving the processing and selling of organic processed food and thus obtaining more jobs in rural areas. Construction of cableways and ski resorts and their equipment with quality machines for providing snow is very important for the development of recreational and superb ski sport. Development of tourism in mountain centres requires further improvement, which can be a business opportunity for young people to work in tourism and motive to stay in their homeland. The bathroom, like the pearl of our tourism, has over 50km of built alpine trails. The trail serves a system of 24 lifts capacity of 30,000 skiers per hour, putting it in line for the largest ski centres in this part of Europe. Zlatibor, as nothing less worthy of Serbian tourism, with a capacity of 5,400 skiers per hour and a six-six-six-seater, can be considered and classified because of the ideal altitude of a thousand meters for the summer base for the preparation of numerous sports teams from the country and abroad, as is the case now. Development of tourist destinations in Serbia is developing undeveloped parts of the country so far, and the best indicator is the Stara Planina. The very beginning of the construction of the ski resort and the hotel has led to the return of people to this area, the possibility of developing entrepreneurship has been opened. The old mountain has served as an example for us to follow and follow. As an athlete, a pedagogue, a ski instructor and an expert in sports, I can freely say that the development of sports-recreative mountain tourism, a centre for the preparation of top athletes with the modernisation of offers and the modernisation of additional content modelled by famous ski centres, such as Shamonia, Davos, Madonna di Campillo, will contribute greatly to the budget of the Republic of Serbia for a very impressive exchange. Turkey, as a country that has invested a great deal in the development of summer tourism, has not remained in order for the winter break to cancel the well-being of the summer season, but has succeeded in building football courts next to hotel complexes in the short run as the most desirable destination for the preparation of top football teams around the world. I see no reason not to do so in Serbia on our mountainous capitals of the Balkans, increasing capacity, building new cableways, as well as building prestigious hotels and modern sports courts and facilities, through my own investment or on the basis of a public-private partnership. We have potentials, we just have to use them in an adequate way, taught by the experiences of others, in the best possible way. The funds, which are largely spent on preparing our top athletes abroad, will remain in the country, and the level of foreign investment through a joint partnership can be immeasurable. In all of this, I call on fellow Members of Parliament to support this bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26320	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26321	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Arsic, honourable Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic with associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, my smallness will only say a few sentences about the law on lifts for the transport of faces. Before I say anything about it, let me remind you of a very significant date. These days, on April 27th, it is the end of the year of this government, and it is my turn to say something about this government in two sentences. Respected citizens of Serbia, within the past year, the government of the Republic of Serbia has made a historic step ahead of Mr. Alexander Vukic, saving the country from the Greek script. It's not convenient to quote myself, but I'll quote myself when the government chooses a sentence. It voted – if the Government of the Republic of Serbia saves the state from the Greek script, I will propose it for the Nobel Prize. The government is going in the right direction, in the right direction. He's conducting painful and difficult reforms and, of course, he'll be able to implement them. They won't give up because of the future of our children, because of the future of our country. What is very interesting for these years, all the proposed reform laws foreseen by the Prime Minister's exposé, Mr Alexander Vukic, implemented in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Even more. It is the merit of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is the merit of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, it is the merit of you gentlemen, our MPs from the position and opposition, a little more from the opposition, that is the merit I must also say to the Presidency of our Assembly, but also the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Zoran Babic. Another sentence, in the foreign political field of the state of Serbia, as a man of profession, I tell you, has done more in three years than in the previous 20 years. Let me get to the law. Serbia, as I said, is moving towards European and world civilization values. In this sense, this law on cableways for face transport is passed. Thank you, Madam Minister, for identifying you and your ministry, and the government as a whole, this step. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia finds it necessary for a unified arrangement of this very important matter. The goal is to ensure a higher level of life protection, not only of life, but of the health and safety of the people using these cableways, and I especially stress our children, our students and our students. This law is the new law on this is true, which regulates the system of cableways. I am surprised by the MP from the opposition clubs, who was Prime Minister of the government, who was the minister of federal, domestic affairs, why this law was passed. It speaks of him and them as they passed the laws, with the more his currency being "failing give", and this is exactly the alignment of this law with European values. Today in the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, face-carriers are exclusively used in ski centres and ski resorts, and mainly in ski centres Kopalnik, Stara Planina, Tornik, where ski trails are well connected to the cable system. Why am I saying this? Because this government and this government plan to build new railways on Kopalnik as soon as possible, and in Zlatibor there is a plan to build three new routes with a cable system and what is very important, and today there is no notice, the development of the mountain centres of the Republic of Serbia with increased cable capacity is a very important state project of this country and of this government. If you want, I'll do it again, but you'll see in a few years that there will be a realisation. What's most important, five sentences I'm going to say, five things that matter to this law. First, when designing cableways, safety analyses are required and this is extremely important. Secondly, this analysis should cover all the security conditions for the facilities of the railways and the environment, which are related to design, construction and work, which is provided by this law, it provides security. Third, the solution approving the work of the cableway is a condition for the start of its work, and work, maintenance and control are necessarily adapted to technical conditions, as well as to the risks of its location, which, unfortunately, has not been sufficient. The fourth, approval for work, which is very important, one of the most important points, is brought after the expiry of a year, and the driver is required to ensure timely and professional maintenance of the cableway. Fifth, this case is carried out by authorised professional entities. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is one in a series that this government has proposed to us in a year's time to Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and this Assembly adopted to modernise our country, for which it has been identified as headed by the Prime Minister as still in the exhibition presented to us on April 27th, will be completed here in the National Assembly, before us by the MPs. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, I support this law as well as all other laws, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and let it persist in reform procedures, as our children, the future of our children, are required by most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As I said in the beginning, the government is going in the right direction. In that sense, this law is at some point a rock in a series of modernizations of the Republic of Serbia, which we have defined, has a year, which has also been defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, assisted by the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you, especially from the opposition, to vote, and I am glad that your colleagues and colleagues have expressed themselves favourably on these laws, because at least in this way, you will at least contribute a little to the modernisation of Serbia, without which we have no survival. In that sense, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26322	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint, principled and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26323	Thank you. I would take advantage of the opportunity, because I couldn't get a replica of what the minister said after my presentation, or the controversy about whether or not this law was written by stakeholders. The fact that the task force was composed of representatives of the interest groups was written by you. It's in the analysis of the effects of the law. I didn't interpret anything or have any thoughts or anything else. There's an expression used for this House in other laws, that's what the interested parties are, and that's what this other law that we're adopting today is, the law on rail transport. You put in the interest groups, and my comment was that it was the law and it was written. Several interested groups are the village and each has inserted something of their own and there is no common thread to see that one hand has written this law. An example of that, article 4 of this law, division of the wire, now some division is being made here, I don't want to read, because I don't know how many people we'd escort. It's like it's been prescribed from some textbook, put into law. Nor is any member of the law later called for that division, nor is it relevant to this law, but it is there to be found there. I don't know what reason. I was saying this law suspends the inspection procedure law. So it is explicitly said – no appeal is allowed to be made to the inspector's solution. We passed the inspection procedure last week, I think. There is a possibility of appeal, listed as a possibility, since it is a roof law for all inspections, so your colleague from the government, Mrs. Udovicki, spoke to us – this is a roof law. Now we're already passing one law that's directly contrary to that. According to us, this law is also contrary to the Law on Planning and Construction, with the Law on Administrative Procedure, on Public Private Partnership. So this law deals with activity with increased risk. A working hours of not more than 11 hours for the perpetrators is scheduled. We think it's, let's say, illogically, that maximum working hours determines 11 hours for someone who does a very difficult and responsible job. Some other things I've been talking about that I didn't get an answer for, but some insinuations that know or don't know how interest groups work. I believe that you know very well how some stakeholders function, because some stakeholders were very interested, let's say, in the process that you conducted when you ran each other's ministry, fuel labelling, because this job was given to a company with one employee, among other things, a consortium, and on that basis, it entered into a business worth several million euros, which all citizens pay through the price of fuel. Does this interested group now say the government's regulation that says that control of the marked fuel will only work on that fuel-marking company? So someone's going to control and control how the job works, only the company, since one single company is doing the marketing, that one company will, if this government regulation is adopted, be empowered to control itself and in this business, earn, say, 4m euros, and there's one employee. They're interested groups, but I didn't want to talk about it. That's what you put in this text, the reasoning of the law. One of our colleagues said that we didn't believe in our amendments, because I said the law was so bad that I believed all of our 36 amendments, which we gave, to adopt, I don't believe they could fix this law enough, so that he could answer the point. We agree that this law is necessary, that since one new area has not been defined by a special law so far, to be passed, but not as proposed. Unfortunately, I did not have time to study what was written here, that during the public debate there were also different opinions contrary to these principles on which this law was written. No, I have to admit, I've had plenty of time to see what those reasons were, but apparently someone interested in this public debate had a different view of how this area should be regulated. But, well, it's a flaw in our work here where we don't often have enough time, or the possibility of getting ready for the laws, and maybe we miss some things. I believe this law will have to be changed and brought into line in the future. In order to be better than what you've suggested, I suggest you adopt all our amendments and that the next time these laws come in, which we agree are needed, these laws are much better prepared than this cable bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26324	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a proposing representative, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26325	If you had been in the O.R., then I wouldn't have had to read it again, but it's no problem, I'll read it for you, because of those interest groups you're talking about. So, according to you, the interest groups are the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Justice is an interest group by you, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, the Railway Directorate, the JP Ski resort, for you is an interest group of the Institute of Standardisation of Serbia, for you is the interested group of the Republic Spatial Planning Agency, the Institute of Nature Protection, the Faculty of Traffic, the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Civil Engineering. These are for you interested groups. It says here, these are the interest groups in the bill you got. The fact that I understand that term with you, as I said, is different. So that's one thing. The second thing, all the questions you'll get, we'll answer your amendments. As for fuel labelling, it would be great if the Democratic Party or already, I don't know, however, at that point the single Democratic Party had brought and done something about fuel labelling, because thank God that we did, because it reduced the grey economy and brought 40m euros into the budget. It's a contribution to fuel labelling and it's done in every way, so in the public tender, it's as appropriate and as it should be. Therefore, written information will give you information about it, as well as what the State Auditor has done to audit the ministry's work, in particular, precisely in such large purchases as fuel labelling. So 40m euros entered Serbia's budget thanks to fuel markings for the first time, and otherwise the commitments Serbia had five years ago to do, so no previous government did. That's it. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26326	Mr. Djurishic on what grounds? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Based on the minister's presentation. She's been making out with my speech. Is she having sex with your speech? She answered the questions you asked as a MP. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: She misread me. Did she misread you? Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't call the state authorities, the Ministry of Justice, businesses, trade, tourism, the Railways Directorate, the Ski resorts of Serbia, all of what you listed to the stakeholders. You wrote that they were interested groups, you. So that's what it's like -- stakeholders' groups and then you've listed state limits. You said the state authorities, the ministries, the public enterprises of the interest group, were not me. I just read what it says here. So, I didn't make anything up, I didn't interpret anything, and I kind of called something, but you did it. I only draw your attention to keeping the laws you send to parliament and what it says in the laws and in the reasoning of the law, and in this section that is obliged to analyse the effects of the law. We MPs read it all, and when we find something like this, that's what we react to. Don't be angry with us, but take care of yourself as a competent minister who's come to present these laws as to what's written in all these papers. I didn't interpret anything, I didn't call anyone, I didn't call the state authorities to interest groups, you did. Since you've also talked about lobbying, I agree with you that we need as a state a law on lobbying that might then solve some problems and some things that happen in society, so you don't know which way it affects and whether it's in the interest of citizens or in the interest of a particular group of people or an interesting group, whatever they call it, but it would certainly provide more transparency and as soon as such a law is prepared we are ready to participate and help. So don't talk to me and put something in your mouth that I just read from the reasoning of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26328	Time, Mr. Djurishich. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26329	To avoid confusion, you said in your first speech and you had a negative connotation on words – an interested group. So she wasn't positive, and we put her here exactly the way we are, positive, honest and honest. Yes, stakeholders – Ministry of Justice, economy and all other institutions. And you're talking about stakeholders, you're talking about something completely different, and I understand you completely, given the way you've functioned for the past 10 years, and it makes perfect sense to me that for you, the stakeholders are in a negative connotation. Just to clarify why I said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-21-0.u26330	Thank you. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 to 5 of the agenda. This concludes today's work and continues tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
