ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38059	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, in Article 1 and Amendment number one, we asked to talk about making things easier, better and more precise, and then depending on it in the law afterwards, we can intervene in the right way. In light of the rejection of this amendment, it is said, among other things, that these clearings that could arise do not lose the status of the forest for the reason it will be restored. This is one look at the future where you are very prone to all of these environmental laws, water, forestry, and this time you tell us that something is going to be restored, and we have fires and natural disasters that took place 15 and 20 years ago, and these forests are still not restored, but there have been self-involved vegetation. It is not enough to explain that something will be or that something will be restored, and for the sake of understanding, to say some of the following things, we have only asked in this amendment that, after the wording, "as well as human action or for natural reasons, no temporarily growing surfaces on which it is not expected that it will naturally artificially restore the forest" to be deleted. In our view, these are not clear enough, and of course we'll see in part two when we talk about the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38060	I thank you, Mr. Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Minister, sign in. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38061	We have carefully considered the proposal for this amendment, and I must tell you that regardless of your current interpretation and explanation of the reasons why you suggest that part of the proposed member be deleted, I must say that with such a solution we want to keep really certain areas, forests, or forest land in the register of forest land, and it is clear which land it refers to. So, to those clearings that remain after certain natural disasters, after the fire, after the icy, after some activities of the people who are not allowed, such as illegal cutting, so the forest land remains in the range, or in the planning documents like the forest land, because we know that this land will and we expect that this land will be re-grown by the forest, that is, the forest. That's why we cited, because really natural disasters can't be the reason why you now don't treat some area that was a forest as such, since, as I said, it's forest land. In addition, you, in the proposal for this amendment in this section, which refers to the part to be deleted, say – as well as by human action or for natural reasons, temporarily unprocessed surfaces on which the forest is not expected to be re-established naturally or artificially. So this word “no ” does not stand in front of our bill. So that's one and a technical mistake, and hopefully the intention that we're promoting through this member and through this law is now a little clearer to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38062	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38063	I thank you for your explanation. Our wish was for these ingredients to remain defined and precisely because of it, not that some forests would be, forest land is clear what they are, of course no one would object to the forest land being kept and to be brought up for purpose, when we talk about it, but in this interpretation of the amendment, I don't think that this word "no" is changing what we wanted to say, that we're just narrowing down to make it clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38064	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38065	It's an interesting amendment and an explanation, and it's a good reason to ask the minister to explain. If it remains as in the text of the bill of amendments and additions and this position 2. I will then read that item 2 which contains essentially my question. It is considered under the forest to be young, natural, human, or for natural reasons of a temporary area where forests are expected to be re-established naturally. What are those surfaces? What are these areas where the forest is expected to be naturally established without being presently presently missing? What's your explanation for saying in the de facto law, so I have some area where there used to be a forest, if you look at today's Europe, it was all covered in woods and it was nice. In Serbia it's somewhere, I'm asking which area something happened on, and you say you expect the forest to be restored naturally. Why is this the subject of the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38066	Mrs. Boskovic, I beg you, I will now give you as a replica, but you are entitled only two minutes after one amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38067	The chairman reminds me of the two minutes I spent earlier, but I thank you for giving me the opportunity to answer. We have accepted the amendment of Mr Petric, a MP who has proposed that Article 1 paragraph 2 delete the words "yes", so that the amendment has been accepted and this suggestion has been respected through Mr Petric's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38068	Thank you. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38069	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 2 which reads that Article 6(3) post-point 1) adds a new point that reads: "The forest with a short period of protection for biomass and energy needs", in a work that speaks of the function and purpose of the forest. You have answered us, Madam Minister, that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the economic forests referred to in Article 6(3) of the Law cover forests with a short period of observation, which differ from other commercial forests by specific technology, not function, i.e. to their purpose. If we go back to our conversation in principle debate, Madam Minister, we were here saying that this law, except that it should prevent illegal deforestation, which should follow the path of wood from the forest to the users, which has divided the territory in a new way in order to facilitate forest monitoring, should and should have a basic function, that, as we have said, apart from those two million trees that are cut annually in Serbia, and you said to plant five to six million trees, that this law creates an opportunity for Serbia to become a country that instead of 30% under forests. We agreed and I supported it as your idea and said that, in accordance with your relationship with our amendments, this amendment is part of that discussion we had, we will support the law. But you did not accept this amendment, explaining that what we are proposing is already in the law in principle. Now let me remind you that the basics of your suggestion was that one of the more important things that prevents Serbia's more intense deforestation of a private plot, where people are not motivated to plant on their possessions seedlings given by the state. Those were your words. This amendment highlighted and opened the possibility that you as a representative of the government, that the government, through the budget of the future stimulative measures, would encourage and allow people to choose to go from the self-indulgent forests to the so-called so-called. Highly cultured forests. What I was telling you at the time, and what I think is one of the possibilities for Serbia to leave the crisis, from the budget deficit, is green energy, it's biomass, and it's going to be the transition to renewable energy sources, because we agreed that in forests, 30% of the cut-off branch in normal cutting and wild cut-offs, and that it should be used for heating, so that it can be a substitute for oil imports, and it's known that Serbia annually imports two million tons of oil and that it's one of the important factors of the budget deficit, because we import, and we export less, to replace oil with renewable sources of energy, and one of these sources is a tree, we can reduce the budget deficit. I trusted you to be honest with me. Then I really don't understand why you don't want to create a government and you're able to stimulate and encourage the owners of agricultural land to plant forests that can be perspective, replace import energy. I understand that you are adapting our EU laws, but you must also take care that, in the context of your competences, other than a declarative story, you show the desire to enter into Serbia's problem more vigorously. One of these problems is Serbia's deforestation. We're saying that the offering of nine million cubic metres of self-inflicted forests per year is natural, and we're witnessing that in Serbia, especially this southern part where I live, you have more and more of the plants that make the pellets, so you have factories that make those mediapan plates, so the OSB plates and we see only trucks that pull out the woods, pull out, pull out the woods, and we don't see the trucks that run the seedlings. What we have proposed is the possibility for people to realize that they will first be tax-free, let's say for that land where the forest is planted, so they will eventually be rewarded financially in due course because they will be able to sell that biomass in quality, i.e.. those kinds of trees that will be planted on their land. Why didn't you accept our amendment? The amendment gives the possibility to stimulate, in the context of this formulation, "the forest with a short period of treatment for biomass for energy needs", you sublegal acts to, I don't know, whatever your ministry is, it's a matter of profession, and it suggests and motivates people to go into the replacement forest in the quality forests. I ask you to think again and accept, because this can't hurt the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38070	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38071	For many of the suggestions that you have now made, this law offers opportunities. In particular, it does not create restrictions on the spread of forestry, on deforestation and on the affirmation of certain economic activities within the framework of forestry as a branch of the economy. We have rejected the amendment that the bill specifically introduces a provision: "the forest with a short period of treatment for biomass for energy needs", not because we felt that it was not a good amendment and not because we do not want to support and help this type of forestry, but because the profession says that these are an integral part of the economic forests and that their particular emphasis, although I believe, as you do, might be good to point out, but the profession says it is not good because they are understood. Also, the law says that it is not good to add what is meant because it violates the functionality and concept of the law. So this is exactly what your amendment supports, and there's no reason for any misunderstanding. Therefore, forests with a short period of care for bioenergy and energy needs are contained in the proposal for our law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38072	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38073	I thank you, Chairman. As an authorised representative. I thought because of those two minutes that it might be better for a few MPs to talk about the amendments, and perhaps at the end of the minister's day, but as you decide. It seemed to me that maybe it was so much better, and that's why I called before the minister, no more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38074	I know, but when the Minister answers, she has an advantage. I've already warned the minister there's only two minutes per amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38075	All right. I thank you, to say the least, for my opinion. Our intention is to say a little more in favour of this amendment is that according to the established forest priorities or their parts can be classified by purpose, except for the commercial forests with a special purpose for the solution so far and for the forests with a short period of observation, the rapidly growing forests for biomass and energy needs. Forests with this priority function are in our opinion a specific and specific vision or category of forest. Their development can also be planned specifically and financed because we said we had trouble encouraging people to say, enter private, owners enter forest cultivation. If I were to answer them with your earlier argument, this law is not so bad, we recognize his tendencies, but as you said about our amendment, but we will not accept this law of yours. So the SDS-ZZ-ZS will vote against this bill because this is a way of thinking that's a little out of date. We have to follow trends, we have to encourage people to plant forests and say, in this part of the specific amendment, the purpose of the forest is determined in accordance with the priority functions of forests, the plans for the development of forest areas. These plans also plan to raise the forest. If the rapidly growing forests were included in the priority forest category, they would also create an obligation to raise and grow them on untapped forest land but also to manage properly. What is very interesting to us, and what only the declarative ministry accepts in the green economy, that this amendment precisely defined, as we have suggested, these forests can be raised and grown on land with an original second purpose. Whether it's degraded agricultural land, whether it's land in blue zones, so-called Forlands where there are now some forest plots, but it could be accelerated, accelerated or possibly conquered by some better forest species that are now in forestry recognition. If a German uses collages as a particularly interesting tree for several categories of use, as a mediocre tree, as a tree for good nitrogen growth and, of course, a well-heated tree or an energy tree, we do not see why lower categories of agricultural land, degraded agricultural land, wasteland, land in blue zones could not be defined in this amendment. Understanding the proposal's wish, but not a good enough wish, we will not vote in favour of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38076	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38077	Thank you. I use the time of authorized representatives of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I am inclined to support this amendment, not only because of the reasons given by colleagues Bradic and Ivan Karic, but because accepting such an amendment by the promoters would mean that we have a clear direction for developing a segment in terms of forests, but also in terms of energy and environmental protection. The reason is that it is understood that the rapidly growing trees are part of the economic forest is not good for any of the lawyers, the minister, to make this argument, not to you well. There is no reason to assume that it is in the economic forests. That's not understood. We can say that someone else is going to do it and I'm going to accept it. We can also say that we're not sure if we want to have fast-growing trees in the future, so even biomass, all of it can or can be understood. When you tell the MPs whose hands have been through thousands of laws, then it means or doesn't care who advised you, or doesn't care about anyone, but we're just waiting for these amendments to end, we all have a vote for, so let's go. I've always been against that attitude, it doesn't matter if I support the government or I'm an opposition, because I consider it a last-samper whose price we all pay afterwards. Why is it that it's meant to be an economic forest, it doesn't stand. Because I've also heard that answer about the windy seat belts, that it's understood that someone's going to make them, and they're not there. Whenever you mean something, then it's more common that it doesn't happen in a good way or that it happens in a bad way than it does in a proper way. It is understood that people do not destroy their environment. So how stupid do you have to be to cut the branch you're sitting on, to pollute your water, to pollute your land and pollute your air? It's understood that anyone who knows that he needs that environment to live in it, that it won't do it, but that's what people do, that's what people do. You have pollution, you have pollution, you have permanent environmental damage. That's why you have to have regulations to tell people that it doesn't mean you're free to destroy the environment. That'd be good here. We have not submitted the amendment, because I do not know on my great regret whether, within the framework of energy and environmental protection, that is to say, in Chapter 27, all processes are simply blocked, unforgivable for a long time. Many of them go backwards, do harm, but the good decision of the government and the Ministry was so and obviously still is. So, do we want to have fast-growing species of trees that we're going to use for biomass. If we want to, it doesn't make sense. I know you won't accept this amendment. I'm saying this because of my understanding of the way I'm doing my job. It's mine to learn, to look at, to listen to arguments, and to say, and I'm not one of those who, when you bring this same law to amendments, will be added to the new law, with this same amendment, to tell you – so they told you a year ago. If there is a good thing about the amendments is that this dialogue should be focused on the topic and that we all need to be focused on the topic. If you say no to the amendment, otherwise we'll do it, the argument is that it's understood. Then either you are badly advised, or neither of us actually knows whether we are going to plan to develop rapidly growing trees, so that the use of these species is in line with the general strategy for negotiations on Chapter 27. We can also put on populist amendments, or amendments that just mean making some idea popular, because it's kind of sweet to the ears, but it's just an excess. When amendments are submitted, all MPs are allowed naturally, for example, an amendment which would be legally binding, as counterpart Dusan Milosavljevic said, whoever cuts down a tree must also plant one, but that is a good principle, but it is not such an approach. This is an approach, tell us – will we have a plan to plant the rapidly growing trees, or will we not? Don't answer to us for that to be understood, because it's a disdain for those of us who can read the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38078	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38079	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I agree with the fact that this amendment should not be accepted on Article 2 which says that, in Article 6(3), the new point 2, which is to be added, the forests with a short period of treatment for biomass for energy needs, are being changed. In the explanation of the legislator of the law, we understand why it is not to be accepted – for reasons that economic forests cover forests with a short period of observation. If we would accept this amendment, then we would have to do so in this Article 2, i.e. in the amended Article 6, to specify, taxively, everything involving the commercial forests and, in particular, to distinguish them as the points of that member of the law. It was heard that this amendment "has a clear direction to develop a segment". In this case, it is energy, which refers to forests with a short period of protection for production was mass. What about the other segments, not just energy? The question arises, in his presentation, my colleague Bradic spoke about how to conduct the translation of the low forests, i.e. In the tall forest. So, I've been doing this process of transmuting edition forests into high forests is a long process, but I have to point out that the most widely used woody material for the production of biomass, while in the high forests we have a much better quality tree, which has a higher value and which has another buyer, where the processing of that tree is done, and not just in the use of biomass. For these reasons, I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38080	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38081	Dear Chairman, the respected minister, guests from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to support the amendment and agree with the discussion of counterpart Comic, colleagues Bradic and colleagues Karic. What I'm trying to say is that in Serbia, we're cutting the woods more and more. We don't care about forests at all, and I keep saying that we have to legally bind all those people who cut down the forest, who cut down a tree, to plant a new tree. It's something we have to regulate by law. A colleague, Bradic, said that there is an increasing expansion in Serbia of furniture production, expansion of production and deforestation, and it is evident that this is good for our industry, but it is not good for our ecology, it is not good for our health, and therefore we need to cultivate forests, to plant forests, and especially because it is a trend in Serbia that Serbian citizens are mostly heating up wood. And that's something that's really bad. In the 21st century, you still have in the centre of Nis and in the centre of Novi Sad, as well as in Belgrade, citizens who heat in wood. Nowhere in Europe, nowhere in America, you don't have citizens heating up on electricity or heating up on wood. They're heating up on gas or central heating. In Serbia, this is a problem because central heating bills are abnormally high and citizens continue to heat on wood. That's bad. So first, they cut the woods, unplanned. Second, urban pollution is increasing. The respiratory diseases in urban areas are growing, and this requires one greater concern from the state, and especially from your resolutional ministry, where we should legally regulate that anyone who cuts down a tree has an obligation to plant two young men, two sessions, that will grow for years. So we have to take care of our generations, our children, our grandchildren, what kind of Serbia they're going to live in, what air they're going to breathe in. Unfortunately, we're breathing worse and worse. That's what I'm telling you as a doctor. Also, there is an increasing number of respiratory diseases, an increasing number of asthma and bronchitis and allergic conditions. So let's think planically, wisely. Our ancestors grew up in the woods. They nursed the woods. If we aim for Europe, Germany takes care of the forests most. Look, cross the streets of Berlin. Every seedling, every tree has its own registration, its own plate. There to cut down a tree – you have to get a million permits. And with us, if a neighbor doesn't like a tree, he'll cut it, some president doesn't like a tree, he'll cut it without a problem. So we should legally pay a little more attention to this problem. I'm pointing to you as a doctor, as a citizen of this country, that we have a non-planned cross-section of the forest, that we have carelessness, that no one cares what we breathe in a few years, what air we breathe. Forests are purifiers of our lungs, lungs of cities, and unfortunately, in cities, Nis, Novi Sad and Belgrade, and especially in smaller environments, people continue to heat on trees, because it is the cheapest heating. And that's not normal. First, it's not normal because we cut down Serbian forests, and secondly because we pollute cities and breathe bad air. So let's legally regulate -- one tree you cut, you have to plant two. Let us facilitate the integration of citizens of larger cities into remote heating and make these heating prices decent, not as they are currently in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38082	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38083	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this very law is good for this reason, because it brings better opportunities and better tools to prevent illegal cutting and stealing. We must respect reality. We can't ban people from heating up wood, especially in some of Serbia's edges where it's very difficult to gasse. But we can bring it down to the lowest possible level. This amendment should not be adopted precisely for the very clear reasons stated by the minister, which is that what is required by this amendment is already contained and that any further discussion is incomplete. Given that the law is really high quality and that it makes some shifts in relation to previous conditions and gives a number of quality tools, primarily forest administrations introduces some new institutions that will take care of evolution, education and do one promotion of our country's forests and forest treasures, and thus indeed this law is good for the health of all our citizens. He just, as his colleague said, solves it with better noise, and we saw that the minister also said that there are some shifts in the shaming process, it is seen, and that a lot is going to be invested and a lot is being invested. I don't think this amendment should be accepted, because the letter of the law contains his proposal and its essence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38084	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38085	Thank you. We in the SPS parliamentary group believe that anyone who makes extremely well-intentioned proposals, so we can also accept such motivation from the promoter, thus improving the quality of the law. That's beyond a doubt. However, it is obvious here to knock on the open door. The increase in the degree of protection of forests and forest areas has already been defined by law, and in particular by certain provisions of the law, so that some higher degree of protection proposed by the amendment is selective approaches to certain forest areas, forest areas, as well as what relates to the content itself of what the forest represents, or what it can represent as a substance for biomass or for energy needs. In a particular case, I think this concern, if there is already a concern for the forest and forest areas, should have appeared significantly earlier. If there's a problem, I don't see it bigger than it was five, 10 or 15 years ago, then the problem had to be solved then. Now that what is related to the alleged existence of a problem of increased levels of forest protection and forest areas has been systematically resolved, I do not see that such intervention is necessary in this law at all. It is enough that what is already normised and what is proposed by amendments and additions, so that in principle what the amendment requires is contained in the law. And whether or not something is understood in the legal sense of the word can have a multiple volume of interpretation. It is understood that people should not commit crimes, yet they are committed and therefore followed by sanctions and what means the prevention of criminal acts. Therefore, the reason for the intervention in the law with such an amendment is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38086	Thank you. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38087	Thank you. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, if you're listening to this debate, we're confusing you now. The MPs say it's great and that it should stay the way it is, that our amendment be rejected, and we insist on the amendment. Why? The Minister is absolutely right when she says that under the notion of economic forests, forests with a short period of observation, which are grown for biomass and energy needs, are included. That's what the waist said, and that's the profession, and that's true. I will remind you, Serbian citizens, that parliament is there to create a policy and we create through the laws how to develop states and direct economics, normal life, everything that happens in Serbia is channeled into some flows. Our idea was to potentiate the replacement of fossil fuels with renewable energy sources. That's the point. I understand the profession, forest engineers, but here we give guidance on how this country will go and on which side. I think that as Parliament, we should insist that, in time, whatever government or whatever party leads the country, we are going to replaceable renewable self-sustainable energy sources. One of these is forest biomass. I expected the minister to say that he would sit down with Minister Antiić, as the 2016 budget is now to be created, so that they can agree on this amendment to encourage farmers to use their parcels to plant biomass, to plant so that the bamia and that kind of growth that is rapidly growing and has a good contribution and gives a succesively in five, ten years, so that we can be a state that reduces the consumption of fossil fuels. It's politics, it's vision, it's budget care, it's deficit reduction. It's not just outwitting, not to accept amendments, and then we won't vote for the law. No, we insist on making this potent, because we're sending a message about what we're going to do in the next period. I expected the minister to say that he would agree with Minister Antic, that these people who would be crewed by that type of tree would be exempt from land tax, so we will have, say, an annual stimulation of 100 dinars, because it takes years for the staff to grow, that people also have a material interest in entering that production. It's politics, it's an idea, it's a desire to reduce the budget deficit. You can cut the budget deficit like this, not just by cutting wages and pensions. It needs to be creative, and that's why we ask you to support this amendment, to show you the will to show what you're saying through action and through the law that you feel the same way. This isn't outwitting the position and opposition. Let's send a message that we want to subsidize, stimulate from the financial budgets the production of wood, because we want to have an increase of not nine million, but ten million, 15, 20 million cubic meters a year. It will give specific types of wood, not self-involved, publishing forests. If they give nine million a year, this will give 30 million a year, if they planted the whole area. Let's show our desire to do it. It is not an argument – it is understood. It's out of the question. If it's meant to be, it'll be as it is by now. We are not the only parliament to discuss this law. And in the past, forest laws were passed, and they were meant to be -- we have what we have, more trucks that drag logs than trucks that drag seedlings. That's a fact. We're relying on the fact that we're going to make the forest rain 'cause it's just gonna pop up, so it's going to pop up, normally, if we don't plow the ground, there's gonna be thunders, and then they're going to be acacias, and I don't know what's going to happen. But we want to get into a serious story and get the job done by time, and it takes time, in five, ten years, we have the potential to replace fossil fuels with only renewable sources, i.e.. With a tree. Then it won't be a problem if we're heating up on wood, on electricity, because we're going to have the potential to make that tree a pellets, so that we can have cheap sources of energy during the winter and all year round, whatever that pellets were used for. I insist on this, because that gives us opportunities, we give the Parliament's definitions that we will insist that we reduce the import of fossil fuels over time, to reduce the budget deficit, because that is the generator of the deficit. We have to import oil. Well, we don't have that. What do we have in Vojvodina? It's a drop compared to what we spend. Why import gas if we might even have biomass energy? Why import gas? But that takes time. Well, give the law a chance to get into that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38088	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38089	Thank you. I believe this law has no restrictions on the production of biomass. I didn't find it anywhere in this law, so our forest users and forest owners can raise forests with a short period of protection for biomass production, so I don't see the purpose of accepting such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38090	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38091	Thank you. Your Honor, this is about a very clear matter. You have not treated the economy, agriculture, energy, or water economy in the law. You didn't even mention this law, and a colleague resents us for only talking about energy in this law. When the Greens bring you laws, you won't have a single objection to those laws. We're fixing a law that's not good enough. This law isn't very bad, but it's not good enough. When we talk about energy plantations and heated wood, you, Madam Minister, know that the tree tax is 8% and VAT is 20%. This does not stimulate the green economy, so it does not help the state, so it does not develop a new economy and green economy. Of course, it is understood that criminal acts are not allowed, but it still states in the law that they are not allowed and that they are very punishable. It's interesting that you've turned down our amendments for half the principled debate. We received an electronic route through parliament that all amendments were rejected for half the debate. Another interesting thing, fellow SPS colleagues constantly have this eternal argument that someone five or ten years ago didn't do anything. The Greens have been around for five years. I'm the inspiration of these amendments, and in 25 years, you've been in power for 23 years, and you keep forgetting it when you're paying attention to someone here. I know a respected colleague of mine would say you've been in power since 1945, but I'm not that rigid. You have been in power for the last 25 years of 23 years and are absolutely responsible for the situation in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38092	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38093	If we listened carefully to this debate, then you could see what it looks like when you say that fast-growing trees and the use of meanings, because the MP who supports you said it wasn't written anywhere in the law. It's possible that you say -- it doesn't matter what the MP says, including me or anyone else, it's possible, but then why are we all sitting here together? If you hear from the debate that one MP, who thinks the amendment should refuse, read the law, obviously very carefully, is understood, otherwise, and says it should be rejected, because it is not the subject of this law, and you tell us that you have been told that fast-growing trees are meant to be, we have a misunderstanding, a banal but deep. When such misunderstandings are banal, and deep in law, for example, from natural public finances, it sounds paradoxical, it's easier to correct. When they come from the subject of human rights or the right to a fair trial, notaries, it's easier to correct. Neglect and disrespect of dialogue in environmental laws is very difficult to correct. Very hard. What are we doing today? All that negligent mechanism, according to the dialogue, about how we want the forest to be used, which we used decades ago, we use and now we expect to give it a different result, so we can't use the same mechanism to give a different result. What have you been offered with this amendment? A different mechanism. Let's open the debate with a policy that we want there to be fast-growing forests in Serbia that will be used for biomass. This amendment does not oblige you, nor does it oblige you, nor does it oblige you to plant them, nor does it bind you to incentives, state aid and subsidies. The amendment says: "The National Assembly in dialogue with the proposing, with its Serbian government, has concluded that part of the overall development in Serbia is the need to legally define that we want fast-growing forests." And nothing more and nothing less. I have no hope that this assembly is a place where there will be dialogue, and I have no intention of giving up dialogue at any time. When a similar law comes along, such as this one, where it is very confidently claimed to be meant, so the MP says there is no law, for the next similar law, I will propose that from the cost of costing Serbia's change under Chapter 27 each MP, who sovereignly claims to have something in the law, that there is nothing in the law, defending the government or attacking the government, has a part of his money for applying Chapter 27 through the negotiations. The ease of the words that slip here, because we love the government and we want to show ourselves that we support the government and, look how well I told you that I support you, it doesn't matter what it says, that ease of words will be turned into a few thousand euros that you have to pay for, because here you have claimed that it implies itself in the economic forests or you have claimed that there is no law at all, will probably contribute to some elemental responsibility that we have in discussions on the subject of debate, not whether we support the government, the interest group, the minister or anyone who told us – say something nice about the law, so just let it go. That part should be with many other laws. With the Law of Protection, the laws concerning natural resources, the laws concerning the energy field, will not be quite like that. It happened, so the damage is obvious. Are some of us ready to keep quiet about it, some of us are not ready, that will be served by the congregation. It is not our intention to keep you on the subject of the law, nor to explain that we understand ourselves better in the area of fast-growing trees. It is our intention that this Assembly really become a place where policies are made through dialogue, because based on the fact that this policy is good for everyone. The names of dialogue applicants or of us who defend or attack the amendment or the law will be forgotten anyway. They won't forget the nature we're going to damage or the economy we're not going to develop because we're lazy for dialogue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38094	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38095	Dear People's MPs, I want to tell you that, as we prepare ourselves for every law carefully and we want to give it to you as best as possible to the public, we expect you, especially when you take part in the discussion, to at least look at the law with a little attention. Here, a large discussion developed around forests with a short production cycle, i.e. fast-growing forests. My fellow Members, in the current law, Article 33, implies and recognizes that it implies, rather than recognizes these woods. This member of the applicable law was not subject to an amendment in our law, so far and further, Article 33 means fast-growing forests, forests with a short production cycle, forests intended for bioenergy, or biomass production. The amendment that this kind of discussion has developed is an amendment where I've been honored to say it's being understood. That's right. Industrial forests include several types of forests, and among them, forests for the production of biomass. That's not what the lawyers said, and I didn't say it. It's what the forest profession and forest science said. This whole story, if the law was read more carefully, it wouldn't have to be told. Secondly, as far as subsidies are concerned, in the principle of discussion, we discussed and said that there is a Forest Fund at the republican level, at the province level, that in this case it is not only a problem in the subsidy, therefore in providing funds and assistance. One more thing you need to know, there's talk here about the state of forestry today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38096	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38097	In 2010, the law was passed, there are data. I would like all MPs, who express such concerns about the state of forestry, to see what the consequences of the 2010 law are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38098	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38099	So we don't understand each other at all. Dear Minister, thank you for your education. You're in parliament, where real laws are created. So we make laws, we write them, we approve them, we adopt them, and you propose them. So if we say the Earth is square, it's going to be square. That's not the point. The theme, Madam Minister, is that we want to create a policy and that we want to show which direction the development and energy consumption in the Republic of Serbia will go. We want to, that's why we've proposed an amendment, to only potentiate renewable energy sources. We want to, through the law, show our intention to reduce the import of fossil fuels in order to reduce the external trade deficit. We want the planting of forests, with this law, this article, this amendment, to show that we will make Serbia a country with more oxygen than carbon dioxide. That's the intention, that's the suggestion. We want to create a possibility for the government, not only do you support the government, which is the majority of the congregation, and we, by criticising and correcting the law, are correcting the government's proposals and thus giving us the opportunity to be better, not just you. It's not government support to approve. The government's authority can't be true. It can't be true. Sometimes, but not always, and you accept authority as absolute truth, so it's not. Not this time. This time we're right. I know you're going to refuse the amendment, but I'm saying this because Serbian citizens need to see that there is an alternative to you, and that is us, however small we are now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38100	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I am talking about the amendment. I know you're talking about the amendment, but you've wasted all your time at your disposal, so you don't have any more time. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38101	I've been reporting, so I've given up, I'd ask you, although, here I see now that the MPs' group of opposition times, and MP DS from Nis, who came in, said what he had and left, didn't speak of an amendment one word. One, the only word about the amendment didn't say. You didn't react. He talked about neighbors cutting off each other's woods, how we are in Serbia a disaster, how we should look up to Germany, etc. There are no colleagues to inform him that the forest is being stolen in Germany and that it's on the list of countries where the forest is being stolen, less than we do, but it's being stolen. When I spoke in the principle debate, I said we should move forward, that and look for the better, not the back, but Serbia is somewhere in the middle, in Europe, and don't make everything from Serbia what it isn't. Compared to many, Serbia is an organised country, compared to many, Serbia is a respected country, and compared to many, Serbia has potential, will, energy, SNS, Prime Minister, Mr Vukic, who drags forward and plants better. This law, colleague Bradic, is much better than the one you brought, which is why we're changing it, because he left so many holes, that he left a disaster in the woods. I said on purpose, get him to pick up, I'll pick up after him, it'll get worse. You left dried-up quarterers, and what was cutting through the woods was because you didn't transfer to a market inspection that could have thousands of inspectors, free of charge when they didn't know that job. They don't know what to control. Forest inspectors, people who understand one another, will find one better than 100 market inspectors. You've passed the law on to market inspectors. This is what the Minister says to you, says article 33. Now say that you have miswritten the amendment and that you are taking back the situation and that you will vote in favour of the law, because you have made a mistake and you have miswritten the amendment. So that's because it's meant to be. When we speak, let's say with an esteemed colleague, Mrs. Comic agrees in many things, about windscreens, there is more to it, when there are appropriate amendments to talk about, I'm going to make a proposal that maybe the people of the ministry will accept as a solution to these problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38102	Thank you. Replica National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic. Your colleague has made it possible for you to have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really don't understand my esteemed SNS colleague. What's the big deal and what's the big deal? I have spoken and explained the amendment where I want this assembly to show policy and direction of movement regarding only renewable energy sources. And I'm honored to be, I don't know, criticizing President Vukic. I didn't mention government. I said, "We support the government with our criticisms because we make it have better laws." If he has better laws, he'll be more successful. So the people will vote again. This way, with these laws, they won't vote. We're talking about only renewable energy sources, we're talking about wanting to get the country out of the crisis, and we don't want to channel through the law to free ourselves from imports of fossil fuels. Well, I really don't understand that. We seem to live in virtual reality, one reality in the congregation, another reality when we go out. I, I respect your decision, I have nothing against it, I'm just telling people that there's an alternative, that there's another idea, another way of thinking, that there's a possibility of being stimulated by biomass production. To free people from paying taxes on land to plant it, so let's just say, it's a year-on-year stimulated 100 dinars, I don't know, that's what economists should say. A hundred dinars because he planted one seedling, so in 10 years, he's gonna get some income, so it's not like it's untapped land, so in 10 years, the state's gonna buy that tree, so it's gonna benefit. Can we think like that? Oh, no, it's our fault. Well, well, we're guilty of choice. Let's see who's to blame after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38104	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38105	Thank you. The minister's brief response to an attempt to explain and explain what has been said and in the first explanation why the amendment is not accepted in the second. I understand that, how can I say, it's a discussion, but it's funny when someone from the SPS is talking about how laws were passed in 2010. We have a very firm view that the question of ethics and correct political relations is that you don't spit on the plate you ate from. The results of the government's 2008-2012 mandate are very often discussed here, and it is never mentioned that the government is a coalition with the SPS. I will never say any ugly, unethical word about that coalition, because it's a matter of self-respect. And when you forget so much that the SPS itself forgets that she did the coalition and did a lot of good things, then it's really inevitable to notice. Nor did this Law on Forests voted for by both my SPS colleagues, has passed the assembly procedure with the largest number of my remarks, remarks and a desire to be different, but it is a personal matter that has nothing to do with anything, unless we already mention what you did in 2010. We were with you in the coalition and together we made all decisions, including the vote on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that is not the subject of which and who will be involved in the DS. But once we get a comment like this, then it's simply my obligation to answer you, you said it was meant to be, you told us that the lawyers told you, you told us in your speech. You can take your head, there are stenograms. And if you hadn't told me that fast-growing trees were meant to be, I wouldn't have had to come up with any more arguments to tell you, because it doesn't make sense. Then repeat that no one has said that. Our forests don't deserve this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38106	Thank you. Just a notice that you've wasted the time of an authorized parliamentary group and part of the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38107	Thank you. If any political party, such as the SPS in this House works, is conducting dialogue. Respecting that we were with someone in the coalition or not is absolutely inappropriate when it comes to the SPS, because anyone when we were in the coalition, we made a maximum contribution to doing quality things. That's why we're probably 23 years in power, I hope we'll be that many times as many. As far as access to the law is concerned, we have here an unnecessary discussion about whether we are for forest potential whether someone else is against it or vice versa. There is a completely unique view here that forest potential must be protected. We only have one conflicting fact about which we obviously cannot take the same attitude, which is that the amendment promoter only has one focused point, and these are forests with a short period of observation. We say that this focused point is also covered by the bill and only in Article 33, but the whole law also covers the complete matter of which, therefore, the complete forest potential. So, about that fact, we can't have a dilemma and we can't honor each other for being against each other and for being against each other. It is a unique interest to us, but not to us but to the citizens of Serbia to protect the forest potential. I don't see any reason for anyone to be angry because we've defined ourselves to support the law as it is, because we think there are standards in the law that protect forest potential enough, including that Corps that applies to the amendment of the promoter. In the end, since I said that forest care should have existed before, it should have been in the coalition with the SPS and in the coalition outside the SPS, because even then what is happening now could have happened, and these are suggestions that contribute to the specific parts of the forest potential of protection with a higher degree of protection. I "Green" want an affirmation, in any case, not five years, but much more, but I'm also happy that we weren't in power during that period that was the most devastating part and time spent to bridge the state, which is the period after the five-octobaric changes. So I'm happy that the SPS in that period, for our great pleasure, did not share, participated in anyone's power, especially in that period that has contributed that we now have to change for the better everything that was done badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38108	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38109	I'm just gonna get one thing straight here. Obviously, we all feel that we should encourage forest cultivation. Well, the government is doing it now through the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forest Administration. And now they're dividing trees for people who want to plant, whether it's half, depending on the area in which the forest is grown, and now it can be achieved through the Ministry of Agriculture and the Forest Administration. Therefore, there is no dispute. It's obvious that this is all stated in the law. So I don't see why this debate is now about something that exists already in the law and why all this talk. I think this is what you should have thought about, i.e. about the forests in the previous period, when hundreds of acres of forest were destroyed. Then no one answered to say – people, let's protect it. Now we've all suddenly become conceits, please, whether we plant or not. Well, there's a law, you know, it's already done, people. Get out on the field for a while, plant the cannons of the forest. In my municipality, the forest cannons are planted. There's a quarter on Tara. So depending on the area where the plants are taken are seedlings that correspond to that climate. So, people, I don't see the need for what we're discussing anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38110	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm simply touched by the concern of a party of the former forest regime and renewable energy sources. As one of them said, only renewables. I thought they were renewable, but he might even convince me that they were just renewables. How are they only going to be renewable, I don't know, but I know of renewable sources because they're being restored, but if they can rebuild themselves, it's a little harder. Serbia has five million hectares of agricultural land. During the rule of the former regime's party, we burned out four million and 150 thousand hectares to three million and 300 thousand, as much as we can process. So 800,000 hectares remain unprocessed, and this land is ideal for renewable energy sources, for biomass, even more favourable than forests. Because it's a land that was once processed, which has access roads, this atar infrastructure, and which makes it easier to use machines both for sowing and for the exploitation of biomass, and I'm going to talk, say, about the Chico, the Chinese cane, the miscantus that on one hectare planting a year can give energy that replaces nine thousand liters of diesel. Now imagine the economic damage of 800,000 hectares if each of these hectares can produce energy potential, or biomass that changes nine thousand gallons of diesel per hectare. If we take only half of it, we can easily calculate that at 400,000 hectares, because someone didn't plan on producing biomass in time on those surfaces, someone who allowed those surfaces to leave, not to be processed anymore, that villages are extinct, that there aren't even valuable hands that can process it, only on those 400 thousand hectares per half of the abandoned agricultural land is the energy potential that changes 360 million liters of diesel. Now look at how much less we would need money for imports of various energy sources that in the previous period the former regime did not allow their agriculture and other land policies and other policies to put that land which was supposed to bring income at a certain cost, i.e. now we need a lot of money to renovate this land and to be processed again. As they shared the pain for the dead presidents, as they shared once power with someone, it doesn't matter at this point. As they now value fast-growing trees, say by the trees, etc., who is not cut because it is cut, which can't protect us from the wind, so when it doesn't protect us from the wind, then in winter, we have snow like that, and when someone tries to help in that snow, they make fun of it. Most of the time, for everything they've done wrong, for all those wind parks they've lightly given permission, and not thinking about biomass, but the wind is the best, it doesn't raise agriculture, you take the breeze, given to the former energy ministers and their relatives' licenses, papers, then you give to the financial director of the former regime, you give him permission, and, behold, Miodrag Kostic got a wind farm. These permits have not been issued by the local authorities, these papers, and location, etc., it is a founding state. That's what I was talking about on October 31st, 2012. I asked the Minister of Energy what are we going to do about it? Our fault and guilt of the government was that they didn't take my discussion seriously at the time and realized that wind energy should be paid three times as much as we sell it to the citizens. So if we sell it for four or five euro cents to wind energy producers, those who want to light up Serbia, which is why they raised wind parks, we have to pay them 15-16 euros. Instead, when they had already advocated biomass, if these papers had been issued for the production of biogas energy, from biomass, and in such a way as to withdraw agricultural production, and then from that agricultural production, let's say, china, it could also be used for the production of energy and for the feeding of livestock, then it would be used to raise livestock, if it produced energy from biomass, the processing industry and some other activity, so on the salary tax, VAT, etc. any money to pay that kind of renewable energy, because it also produced a tax from where we can touch the privileged price of electricity. No, they didn't want to pull the farm, they wanted to light up Serbia, pull the wind parks, wave here with their hands, make a difference. They're going to kill the pensioners in the back, so they're waving their hands that they're producing it in the hall. And they're talking about renewable energy now. Since they loved biomass and agriculture so much, what did the permits give exclusively for solar energy and wind parks? If I were to show it to you, it means this way, that only the problem paper they call listening, in order to let me do it to the end now, we would have to do it every year with 100 million euros from the manufacturer of that wind energy, if we would allow it to be done on a shortcut. Therefore, their intention was not to prove an affair about listening, but rather to pressure them to issue permits for their predetermined commitments to someone who wanted their time from the wind to produce money, without producing biomass, and thus to make fast-track shortcuts. That was why they made such a noise, because otherwise they would have to pay back the money. So I'm surprised someone who didn't want biomass energy was just trying to get wind of it, so much for the dead presidents and some former coalitions to mention it. I will support them in all the pursuits of fast-growing trees, for the restoration of belts around the roads, for the restoration of forests, for the production of biomass, for the rapidly growing trees I will support them always, but I fear they are a rapidly falling party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38112	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. Mr. Bradiche, you have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: I don't have any. How I was not mentioned by my dear colleague. I don't see any pensioners behind you that I can think of thinking of you. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: No, that's not the reason. Please, you're giving me a line to explain. I can't interpret it like that. I have to respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Braddick. I know you're sorry now that you don't belong to another member of Parliament who has more time at his disposal, but there's nothing I can do about it. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38113	Just for a little while. Since this amendment, which has been written, is completely unnecessary, and in the interpretation it is spoken of, among other things, as it stands for greater investment, for investments, for subsidies, etc. I must, only all colleagues who call for some experience and work in parliament to inform that this law is not at all a matter of concern. When the Budget Law comes, then you deal with it, and then you talk about it, but always be ready to talk about what you need to invest in, and why does the budget need to allocate some funds, you should always be ready to say where it will shrink, in which area? Do you, in education, do you in health care, do you in social giving, have to be prepared to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38114	Please, Mr. Braddick, don't throw it away. It's not like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38115	I don't mind having anyone throw anyone away, I'm louder anyway, and the people always hear me better. They don't want to throw them away, so I don't have that problem. So all of this has to be prepared and explained. No more, when we pass the Budget Law, and soon a new budget will come to us, to talk about it, we need it here, we need it here, so of course, we need it everywhere. That's why there's a budget to be deployed. When you say – you need to do this, then tell us where we'll find the money for it and from which items we'll take it off. I'm telling you now, about what she was saying, and I'm going to say a deliberate name, a distinguished colleague of Gordana Komic, because I agree with a lot of things she said here, let's say in French law, and I think I also talked to the director of the Forest Administration once, about agricultural land, and that's not about this law, and let's say that she thinks about the Ministry of Agriculture as a possibility, but there must be another subsidy that you're talking about as an opportunity to do it. In French law because of the less forest, the worse habitat, the environment is projected to be 2% of the agricultural land on each hectare, 2% to be forested or remized or done. For what? And because of the environment, and also because of a savage who has nowhere to hide. There's a disaster in Vojvodina about that, because we also have usurperers who can catch up with guns. When we talk about windscreens, when she was president of the Kovin municipality, she planted several windscreens, but it hasn't been a few days, some usurpers have modeled it and haven't been punished. It's done in Vojvodina, there's local self-government that does it, but for nothing, it's not controlled properly, because it controls under the old law market inspection. Then someone goes through there, role models. No one controls whether the plot is in the right way or not, and we don't have wind protection belts. That's a fact. So we have to regulate it in some other way. My suggestion is that maybe the Ministry would consider passing a lex specialis law. The Wind Belt Act and him to predict everything. Right? (Gordana Comić, from the place: That's right. Here you go. The coworker, lex specialis agrees, and to solve this issue, that we no longer have the hummus, that we do not have these blizzard problems winter with miracles that occur and that Vojvodina remains fertile. Those who care about profit can probably give up 100% profit, 2% to have a better environment situation and save that country so that we can process it a lot longer, not that the whole of Vojvodina becomes a Deliblat pedestrian, one day, which is a tendency. So let's think about it. Let's get a lex specialis. These are concrete things, and don't give me that demagogue here to subsidize, you let us subsidize there. Say, specifically what, when, how, what should be removed from, or do not submit to such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38116	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr Gordana Zoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38117	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members of Parliament, we have been discussing this amendment for quite some time now, and I think it is really unnecessary because I would simply like, for the sake of MPs who may not know and for the sake of the public, to say what these forests mean with a brief watch and what should be introduced into the law in a translated sense. Forests with a short period of observation with us are white heat and black domestic heat and willows. That would mean if we had adopted this amendment, translated into law, that special forests were cannons, domestic poplars, white and black and willows. I have consulted with the profession and I have been told that the cultivation of domestic white poplars and willows and black poplars is economically invaluable, so there are clones that have some industrial value in addition to biomass production, because they are derived from the hulls, and there is also a biomass that can be used for those needs, for energy needs. So I don't think there's really any need to discuss this anymore. The wild forests fall into economic activity. Therefore, if the forest is used for energy needs, whether it suits someone or not, it is an economic activity. Thus, the exploitation of the forest for energy needs is an economic activity. Whether it will be used rawly or as a pellets or otherwise, it is completely irrelevant. All of this has been implemented in law, so I don't think there's really any need to discuss this anymore, that the law is given in the proposal, or in Article 2 of the law in the proposal, is quite acceptable and I think it is necessary to adopt it that way. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly vote in favour of such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38118	The word has a folk MP, Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would refer to what these are, in fact, economic forests. Industrial forests are forests primarily used for permanent wood production and other forest products. Thus, in the very definition of the commercial forest, forests with a short period of observation as well as others are covered. At 2,252,000 hectares in Serbia is under the forests, of which 1,700,000 hectares of forest are commercial forests, which means that they have planned documents for them, i.e. The basics and annual master plans from which of course you can see what is planned and what production. Whether it's a wooden mass from a forest with a short watch or some other. Thank you. I'm sorry, I just want to add, so I don't get unspeakable. In my presentation just before I said that I had not seen in this amendment and addition of the law anywhere limiting the factor for the owners and users of the forest not to produce forests with a short period of observation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38120	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38121	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, with this amendment, our intention was not to allow clean cutting not to be done if it does not exist in the forest's master plan. It also provides that the consent of the competent ministry of forestry affairs is sufficient, and we believe that clean cutting, approved by the ministry for the installation of electricity pipelines, pipelines, PTT pipelines, pipelines, cableways and other similar works, as well as cutting on ash dumps, is not considered to be a change in the purpose of the forest, which is inadmissible. It's all these cuttings that change the purpose of the forest, and I don't see any public interest in that tomorrow, you like to speak in that future time, which tomorrow some company that deals with electricity will be private, I don't see any public interest here, pipeline, some company that builds lifts now in Kopalnik, on the Old Mountain, built wire, and because of that, it's from that time when you were wrong and you were right, but some others were in power and allowed, but you loved that minister to drag him into power, because he destroyed the Old Mountain by the tried capitalist method. You know who he means, the one who destroyed the nature of Serbia, him and his party through the Nature Protection Institute. We really don't have them here, unfortunately, in the O.R., or fortunately. And indeed, we, in our amendments, have one focused point of trying to fix the law, but the law has all the points defiled and not clear enough. There will be suggestions here from the position in the amendments that we accept, which worry, unlike the interpretation of some of my colleagues, care about the woods, or in another's backyard, or in our backyard, not the woods, but the trees, I apologize. At least I speak for myself, the Greens will accept a few of these amendments, although the government has accepted them in a good way, but the arguments that are heard here are so conservative and unorganic, that it looks more like early capitalism in the 19th and 20th centuries than the 21st century. There is no "Z" here from the green economy, there is no "C" from the circular economy, there is no "Z" from environmental protection. These laws that come to the Assembly are the paradigms of an anti-ecological policy that has been conducted for four years and an anti-ecological policy that we have, let me say, whose witnesses we have been to for 25 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38122	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38123	I thank the chairman. I'm just listening, now we're only on the fourth amendment, third unaccepted, but what I'm worried about is that the applicant of the amendment seems to have the only focused point, which is how to change the purpose of the forest. And I saw it in the first amendment, and here it is now. So, what's it like to change as soon as possible. It is required in the amendment to change the purpose of the forest only because it will carry out clean cutting, so far, building certain objects. And here it is clearly mentioned what kind of objects it is. And I will, for the sake of the public to mention, these are objects of public interest, not private. So, with the ministry's consent, it means geodetic works, geological research, scientific research and, of course, on the condition that priority forest functions are not compromised, and priority forest functions are known. Then, the opening of fire lines, i.e. the corridor against the forest fire, then, the suppression of plant diseases and pests and eco-accessants, the reuse of spears and the disposal of ash on the surfaces that have previously been recultivated. What is very important to say is that, in some places, in these mentioned objects, when the corridor is opened, it later becomes more, if there is no need for it to continue to be there, such as the opening, for example. The fire corridor, it can be closed later. Why would we change the purpose of the forest for that? So, the proposer simply wants to change the purpose of the forest and completely, so somewhere I find your motives why you're looking for this, because, and the other thing, in the case of exploitation, when the reclusive terrains are, if it's already a bit larger surface, these other, PTT waters, they're corridors. So, the recultivated land is mostly no longer used in the economy because it realizes that on deeper layers there is waste, so that in principle, it can later and can again serve in the largest number of cases again for the same purpose. So I just don't see why this amendment would be adopted and not well-intentioned and I'm sorry about that. I think the government and the Ministry are still guarding the interests of the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38124	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38125	Not to repeat what the colleague said, but really this amendment, I think that when we look at everything of public interest, ski resorts of course can't get into something that we can call public interest, but if we talk about PTT lines, corridors, like the colleague said, for energy, for electricity transmission, which doesn't matter whether the distributor is private or not. That's completely, I don't understand why you said that. Whether the distributor is private or not, that's completely irrelevant. The market economy is represented here, the real sector is probably equal to the public sector, that's all, we're going to the EU. So the argument doesn't exactly fit you. Some private will make power lines, or set up, to transmit, so he can't do it without the state's permission, without the plans. But again, we're talking about something about, first of all, the rural environment. And we want to keep the people there too. Well, that people must have the same things as in the city, they must have asphalt, they must have gas, they must have electricity, they must have an Internet connection, and the young must have everything the same as in the city, maybe even better, to stay there to live because we need them. To take care of these forests, to take care of this ecology there, to develop eco tourism, so that they can live off livestock farming on those mountains, to beg to live off eco tourism, we have to provide them with everything. It's all the same. Which side of the tourist will come to you on the Old Mountain that you mentioned, you spoke of Mr Dinkic, I understood, and a lot of it is, when someone goes along with their plan and doesn't take care of all the details, of course, that damage is done in one part to the Stara Planina, but if we want some foreign tourist German, English, we talk about tourism, to our mountains, so we don't expect that there is no electricity, because neither does he, nor do we expect that there is no Wi-Fi connection, a network, to be in the process of his business, with his relatives, with his friends, etc. Internet connection of any kind. All that's necessary. And the law makes it clear – if it's more public interest than the fee we get for, only if it's more public interest. I guess we all count on ourselves to be responsible enough to respect, when we write the law, to respect our standards. I know someone will say – Well, it's not always like that; but we change our society, we open chapters, we negotiate, we enter the EU quickly thanks to the government of Mr. Alexander Vukic. And that's why this is well planned, and we're making a responsible society and it's very clear. I'm not going to say it's not a well-intentioned proposal, especially as someone who belongs to the Greens. I think you think well, but at this point you haven't measured what it is, you want it well, but you haven't measured what the value of public service is and what the value of the compensation for the cut-off forest is in that case. So, the public interest if it's bigger then no problem, it says clearly in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38126	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38127	I thank you, Your Honor. Just a very short one. My colleagues mostly listened, obviously they didn't read the last paragraph. The proposer of this amendment, namely Green Serbia, and together with the SDS and the ULS, means the proposings of this amendment demand and suggest that the work in the above areas be marked as pure cutting resulting in a change in the purpose of the forest. So, no one advocates no work and no one advocates changing purpose, but if you do it, it's a change in purpose of the forest and it's mandatory to pay the compensation that is used to raise new forests. And whether someone is going to determine whether it's a greater public interest or a smaller public interest, in any case, if there's a public interest, pay a fee, raise new forests and go wherever you want, but you can't destroy natural resources without compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38128	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38129	Thank you, Chairman. I'd just like to answer my colleagues. It's just that there's no need to change the purpose of the forest, this is about small areas. It's mostly corridors, averages through forests that don't change the basic function of the forest. And if we changed the purpose of the forest, we would have more serious consequences than compensation. Simply, the compensation for such a small area for the cut and for the purpose, the change in the purpose of the forest is insignificant compared to the public interest and how important it is to keep its purpose and its basic functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38130	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38131	I thank you, Chairman. Just because the small surfaces pay the fees and raise some also small areas, but don't destroy the woods, and the former minister said that the old mountain just destroyed the old mountain with these small averages, it absolutely led to erosion and degradation that can't be stopped, and believe that it can be done with both the power lines and the lines. So go wherever you want, but pay for what you took from nature.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38132	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Boskovic Bogosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38133	The point is, it doesn't change the purpose of forest land. So this is about a clean cut in a narrow belt for special infrastructure facilities that are in the general public interest whose interest is greater than compensation. If we took a fee for such a small area, if we determined it, right, that would mean that we translate this land into another category, into construction, agricultural, etc. But it's not going to happen and it's not happening with this proposal because it remains forest land. So it's about the narrow belt, the line objects, the clean cut, and you know well that, let's say, under the power line, we have forest land and we can grow four-quarters. I just want you to know that the essence of the amendment is that we don't want any compensation, because we don't want to change the purpose of forest land.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38134	I thank you, Madam Minister. The 8th Amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38135	Thank you, Mr. Becic. It is my turn to declare another victory for us from the opposition, as this is another accepted amendment to our People's MPs of the New Party. Dear gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Bečić, the distinguished Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the honored guests and guests of the Ministry, Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic certainly doesn't know it, she didn't follow the session yesterday, she's our guest today, we had a difficult debate here about the second law. We remained almost by midnight, respected Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, so I only suggest that you understand perhaps a little absence of concentration, first of all, MPs from the ruling coalition, but we are absolutely focused on the debate on the content of this bill, gentlemen. And as is the order of these occasions, firstly to remind the MPs about certain statistics on our amendment to Article 9, respected Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted a total of seven amendments to this bill, gentlemen. Of these seven amendments submitted, and indeed how does this number compare to the number of amendments that we have submitted to some other bill proposals, such as yesterday, that is a small number of amendments. It certainly speaks little of the content of the bill. Of these seven amendments submitted, gentlemen, four of our amendments and amendments to Article 9 have been accepted is one of these four amendments accepted. Dear gentlemen, it is important here to mention as well as a kind of summary of our work so far for these years and a half, not only this week, that we are the People's MPs of the New Party, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, champions of the amendments, but also in accepting the amendments. We have submitted 1602 amendments for this year and a half, to remind the MPs here. Of these 1602 amendments, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic was accepted, including these four amendments that you accepted 128 amendments. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when this number of amendments adopted is transferred to percentages, it is 7.99% of the amendments accepted. I, on these occasions, usually follow one analogy and this percent of 7.99% of the amendments accepted by the support link that the New Party currently has in the electoral body of our Republic. I conclude this, gentlemen, we, the People's MPs of the New Party, have had enough years and a half to ensure that the next snap parliamentary elections are supported by a 7.99% voter body. I am pleased, honored gentlemen and I now understand, it is fine, of course, now I understand why the Prime Minister does not tolerate that resignation, although it has been announced, because 7.99% only the New Party as the starting position in the snap elections, so of course the threat is to this ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38136	But Mr. Pavicevic, why didn't you say, I expected you to say that four amendments of seven were accepted and that that is 57.14% and that you now have 57.14% in the electoral body.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38137	I'm a real man, Mr. Vienna. I live in reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38138	I think it's a better indicator, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38139	Mr. Becic, I'm not in the imagination right now. I'm realistically looking at and telling. Seven-pointed ninety-nine is reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38140	But Mr. Pavicevic, when we talk fairy tales, let's talk them out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38141	Mr. Wolf tells me fairy tales, he's famous for that. I'm realistic, Mr. Becic. But here I am now to show the MPs, in the case of this amendment, what our interventions have been and what our interventions have been about these four amendments that have been accepted. Here are the honored gentlemen I am here to show and to tell Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic that I appreciate one careful reading and this amendment, the respect of our reasoning, and now I will say what this is for which I greatly appreciate it. For example, we noticed that in Article 9 concerning the previous law of Article 16 that there was one mistake in one word, and we felt it necessary that when we saw that error, we responded to the observed error. One word that read “in which ” should be replaced with the word“ in which. ” We explained why this is important, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic accepted it. Why do I appreciate this careful reading of the reasons and acceptance of this amendment? Because, gentlemen, one dot, one dot, any sign of interplication, one letter, word or sentence, all that does is what we do here, and we do here, respected gentlemen, by legislative work. Legislative work implies that we have to be so precise that we treat the laws almost as beluts, to thoroughly investigate, study, prepare, write, so that in any segment, gentlemen, any draft law has any inaccuracies. So our draft laws that are passed here in the end as laws must be absolutely accurate. Mrs Bošković Bogosavljevic, I treat this orientation towards precision as a focus towards respecting one of the greatest principles of our constitutional system, our Republic, respected gentlemen, and that is the principle, Mr Becic, which is recorded in Article 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads, I believe that after a year and a half of a reminder of this principle, there are no more guests, no guests, no MPs and no MPs who know no more of this principle. It's a great principle of rule of law, gentlemen. What's my idea? Based on this idea, I suggest something to Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic. Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, my proposal is to prevent even a debate that will affect this kind of change of law in the future. That's what we'll do if the bill's proposals are both the language and the substance most accurate. Here, that's my suggestion. I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38142	You've spent your seven minutes. I would point out that what the Prime Minister is saying with respect and attention is being listened to both in the European Union and in America, and what you say is not relevant in this case at all. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38143	Here, just one sentence, because I don't know these arguments we've been listening to all along, 7%, 50%. No problem, we'll have local elections, county elections. We are prepared to lose to the New Party, but to go to the polls alone and win 50% or 7% of the vote, alone without a coalition. We are not so strong, we will continue to coalition with our coalition partners and friends, but you yourselves, so beat Mr. Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38144	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ( b) Replica to the New Party? I apologize, Madam Minister, just one explanation to Mr Pavicevic. I'm sorry, but you're not a parliamentary group to have the right to replication when the New Party is mentioned. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. It's one wish that, unfortunately, we can't help you, never come true and will never be realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38145	I would just like to say that the amendments that have been accepted are really amendments relating to literal errors or even fallout errors, but the mistakes that are the result of your lack of understanding, and yet I would like to say that every law after the adoption of the assembly procedure goes to work. These are the legal-technical editorials before being published in "The Official Messenger", so my gratitude to you is on behalf of those who should do so after us. So, you've helped them well anyway, you've helped them a lot, they don't have to be so awake, because you really find each point where it's not there. In that sense, I want to say the essence of your amendments. I thank you once again on behalf of those you make things easier for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38146	Mr. Pavicevic, this is just gratitude for your efforts, in your technical order, so you have no right to reply. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: In the name of the rule of law, in the name of the technical newspaper. That's funny. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38147	Just two sentences. On the occasion of this amendment, at one of the previous sessions of the Assembly, I suggested that the amendment's amendment change its place of work, since it did not prove to be a good MP, in the sense of the substance of the amendment, that the National Assembly assigns him a second job – a lecturer. However, I am withdrawing this proposal, because I have seen today that many amendments have shown no grammar-language, so here, not in technical, except in one part, but I suggest that he return to the university for a professor, not more for a doctor, but for a librarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38148	Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic, you have the right to a replica, since this has moved your vanity a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38149	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice-President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the Honorable Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I am informing first of all Mr. Mark Atlagic's MP that in March of this year I took a standstill at the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Belgrade because, gentlemen, unlike many people who perform a number of public functions, I have concluded that here I, with my modest capacities, abilities and capabilities, can't do two jobs, responsible jobs, to perform at the same time. I've been thinking about how to define myself here and I've chosen to do this job in the National Assembly now. I think, gentlemen, and I believe that it is now and an impression, not only of the impression, but of the court of most MPs here that I am doing this job in the National Assembly with maximum commitment and responsibility, and this direction towards preparing the amendment is one of the proofs of it. I don't think there's any dilemma about it. Also, I'm saying here, it should be on behalf of the executive authority, for example. Someone to tell us – thank you for such action in the National Assembly, but not on behalf of the legal-technical order, gentlemen, but, Mr. Atlagic, on behalf of this great principle of rule of law. As a MP, I cannot rely most on anyone else when it is my duty to do this job. And as for participating in the elections, in coalitions and on its own, the New Party is the only party that has such a programme of political institutions reform, which treats an increase in the price for coalitions. Well, why don't we talk about that proposal, so let's not adopt it, Mr. Shormaz, but we'll go in columns of ten, like your party does? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38150	Thank you. Now you've really disappointed me, Mr. Pavicevic. Are you criticizing the Honorable professor of the Prime Minister over more functions and professorial functions? Well, you're still on that list chosen, please don't. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaže Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38151	I was afraid you wouldn't read me, so I had no right. I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, this amendment, our wish was that in one part of the owner of the forest, which are natural persons, up to a surface of 30 hectares, and for those in underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Serbia up to 50 hectares, we in some way stimulate or release the other part, that the recovery of areas that are damaged by the fact of natural disasters and the creation and adoption of a recovery plan in case the owners of the forest are natural persons, to be carried out on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the AP. We have seen an argument, in Article 45, as you say, really treat this area in a very similar way. But you understand the intensity of this amendment. We thought these measures could be financed from the budget. The good part is provided for in this Article 45. We thought we might be able to clarify the position of the owners of the physical faces. Let me put it this way, the draftr of the law usually provides for funds in the budget for these purposes. It seemed to us that it remained unclear what was going on with the financing of the measure when it came to the owners of the category of owners for which development programmes are being adopted, not the basics of development and for which services are provided by public undertakings that manage forests in the state property. I have explained this amendment, but I agree with Article 45, and the reason for the rejection of the amendment is quite acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38152	The 9th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Thank you. On the 12th amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Marko Djurisic, academicist Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karić and joint MPs Gordana Comić, Boris Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Marković and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38153	I thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, here, indeed for Article 12(2), our amendment says it "is deleted" with the desire for a programme of forest development to be adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is what we're talking about, let's say, several times already in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as Green Serbia is concerned, we've been talking about this for three and a half years. It seems to us that the bad practice that was in force in this House years ago and decades ago is that only draft laws come without sublegal acts. Yes, we think it is bad practice and that programmes for the development of certain areas and agriculture and forestry and water and the environment, sustainable development are only being considered in the government or in some crazy or isolated public debates. There have been cases like this. It is our desire that by eradicating this amendment, i.e. By erasing Article 2, we are in fact paying attention to the need for the development programmes, in this case the forest development programme, to adopt, to consider the National Assembly. Maybe it's defined by some other laws differently. That's not a good definition, it's better for parliamentism and democracy, it's better for this Parliament and our government to have laws, sublegal acts discussed in the same package, that we know what sublegal acts that come out of the law, which would be rules or something else, that it's better, better and stronger, let's say, democracy, than what we have 20 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38154	The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38155	Your Honor, I appreciate your thinking, and I think you have the right to be convinced that your proposal is better than ours, but what led us to do when we proposed this provision to a member of the law, the bill, is that the government is implementing politics in different sectors. So the government is also implementing politics in the forestry sector. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that it is a single strategic document, a document that is closely specialized, I would like to say that the profession is the one that recommends it and proposes it to the government. So, the Strategic Document with the Action Plan, I think our solution in this case is more comprehensive, and yet I say that I appreciate your opinion, but we simply stayed in this belief that for a practical solution, it is much better and more cellular.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38156	The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Thank you. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Thank you. The 18th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38157	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman of today's session, Mr. Bečić, the distinguished Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the honored guests from the ministry, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 26. The amendment suggested adding one stuck after the word "arms" was added." Mrs Bošković Bogosavljevic replied that she could not accept this amendment and explained it and we accept the explanation sent by Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, but with just maybe another precision. When we already have the opportunity to discuss precisely the laws, words and sentences, perhaps for citizens, who may be following this, for the accuracy of Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, I don't know why he now resents, and I, for the sake of precision, the amendment is not accepted because it is part of the sentence, etc. used as a provision of foresight i.e. as a group of words that make a syntaxal continent with a fore dictation. That's right. It's usually called a predicate rally. I have specifically consulted on these issues and with Mrs. Jerkov, who has otherwise finished Serbian and linguistics, who knows this matter very much, and we have concluded that this is one opportunity that something that has been told precisely is further precise for the additional educational function that we can have here. So, gentlemen, what's very nicely explained, not to accept our amendment, is called a predicate rally. I think it is very good that we use these opportunities for this kind of precision and reference to how seriously we are dealing with legislative work in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38158	If I may say so, you had more inspiration yesterday. The word has a folk emissary, Marjana Maraš.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38159	I would only like on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to thank MP Pavicevic for accepting an explanation for the refusal of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38160	The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Thank you. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Thank you. The 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic submitted to the 28th amendment. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38161	I thank you, Your Honor. I thought you said Article 28. Article 38, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38162	I'm sorry, Article 38.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38163	In this amendment, we wanted to introduce that modern spirit of legislation and the legislation that comes from the EU to us. This modern spirit has something to do with protecting the environment, with a green economy, with a circular economy. In that sense, it is proposed this amendment of ours. We wanted to say that forests in state property can be managed by public enterprises, institutions and companies whose founders of the Republic, i.e. the AP and local self-government, regardless of whether or not they have managed to pass this law. So our desire is to expand the circle of those who can boss in the state forests that already exist. The management of newly built forests, not only in protective belts, introduces the possibility that private companies, investment funds, cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives that invest in shaming based on public competition and the base of forest management, manage forests raised on unprocessed and abandoned forest land in state property. We understand your argument that this amendment is not accepted for the reason why a new concept of mastering state forests is proposed, but we are just not satisfied with the basic text of the law. As Green Serbia, we think that this law must be changed systematically, that you have to do it as soon as possible and that it is not good enough and that it is not good enough, that the system approach to forest management, environmental protection and the concept of the economy must change in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38164	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38165	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, another, as you have characterized, the system amendment. We really think that what we said in the principle debate, that there is not a good enough relationship to protect the environment and natural resources, that we have to change that, that one part of that situation you inherited, especially when working in the area of natural resources. We here really advocate national mandatory insurance and reassurance of forests from the risk of damage resulting from natural disasters in all forms of property. We saw this problem during the 2014 flood. We need to show, prove, convince our citizens that they are different to private property, to property, but also to the general good and to the natural goods. As a result, we think that the system and its relationship with natural resources must be changed and our intention is to ensure for forests in all forms of property mandatory national insurance and reinsurance from damage caused by natural or environmental disasters, and the beneficiary of the insurance compensation would be the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the AP, depending on whether funds are allocated in the budgets of the Republic or the Autonomous Province. I repeat, there must be systematic approaches to changes to the Law in the management of natural resources and to the protection of the environment. It would be good to introduce mandatory national security and reassurance of the damage caused by natural and ecological disasters and disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38166	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38167	I just want to explain for a little while. What you're proposing to these amendments, truth be told, you're already in one piece and you're also proposing a new concept of governance and a new financing concept. These are really major changes, systemic changes, changes that, in order to be proposed, must be the subject of a broad analysis, intersectoral analysis, where politics and economies should be involved. For the time being, we have not had enough time, so we have also proposed a law on amendments and additions to the current 2010 Forest Act. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate. So we wanted to create a legal framework for resolution as quickly as possible, otherwise, we have to admit that we have all agreed together, burning problems in the area of forestry. With all due respect to all your proposals, be assured that they will certainly be analysed in the next period and certainly, when circumstances are acquired, or when agreement is reached with all relevant factors in society, and as I said, above all I think of the Ministry of Finance, that is, the economy, and politics, we will certainly have a new bill that will respect your recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38168	Thank you. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38169	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Can you just tell me how much time there is from an authorised representative? Five. Thank you. To SDS 43rd parliamentary group, the following amendment was tabled for Serbia and Green Serbia: "Article 82(1) after point 2) adds a new point 3) which reads: "A fee for improving the general useful functions of the forest". “ We return here to the debate in principle, where we mentioned a forest fund, where we mentioned an investment forest fund, and these were in the principle debate of basic grudges. The previous amendment, this amendment, is system amendments and we think, above all, that we do not have time, if we want to join the EU, that we must not delay the adoption of system laws that alter the core and essence of these previous bad, largely insufficiently advanced, I cannot find another word, no offense, really insufficiently advanced laws, insufficiently modern laws. We can't fix something whose logic is in the 20th century. It's 2015. Make sure you convince other government members that the laws have to change from the root, that Serbia has no time to adapt, because we will soon get to the chapters, very soon we will be on our way to the European Union and we need to be ready. There is no patching of holes, as our people say, and it seems to me and a respected fellow minister, the former who destroyed the banks and then destroyed the natural goods, he destroyed this fee, and we feel it is necessary to return to the financing system the compensation for improving the general useful functions of the forest, in addition to the compensation for the use of the forest and the compensation for changing the purpose of forest and forest land, which are already provided for by this bill. Serbian citizens need new forest plantings and faster shaming of larger areas. No mitigation is possible, and you know that, probably and better than me, easing the consequences and adapting to climate change without speeding up noise, and it has to be strategic. The law needs to be changed systemically. Cleaner air, rainfall regulation and mid- and longer-term floods are not possible with the current investment volume and the current logic in protecting the environment. I hope that the Honorable colleague and I in the Hunting Law will propose an amendment together. Here, I'm offering to propose together the amendment you've been talking about -- 100 acres of two acres or 2%, or maybe 5%. To show that opposition and position can, when amendments are to the benefit of citizens, make common amendments. We've been talking, and it seems to me that hunters can also help improve the forest and control the forest. What is most important – strategic laws, system laws, unfortunately, in the protection of the environment, in the management of natural goods, we do not have those laws. I return to why we are denying support – this is one of these amendments and the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia will not vote for this legislative proposal. We don't have a clearly defined forest fund, the investment forest fund doesn't exist, no matter what the explanation is that we change the essence of the law. We may do this very quickly, but here we are holding you to the word and what the previous amendment certainly lacks, so that citizens, so that the owners can manage the forest in a better, more certain and safer way. We also said in the principle debate, Serbia is not the worst and nobody said Serbia was the worst. We are in the middle of a scale of European countries where the forests are illegally cut down. There are also serious countries where forests are illegally cut down, etc. But just because we're not the worst, that doesn't mean we shouldn't be the best. Green Serbia is proposing amendments to ensure that the state of Serbia lives well, that the state is the best and that Serbian citizens have a healthy and perspective life, and that Green Serbia believes that our policy can bring it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38170	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38171	I don't think we got along very well for a while. I didn't want to say this law wasn't systematic and it wasn't good. On the contrary, it is systemic, but only for those solutions within the two amendments that you propose I said that it is not systemically enough, that it is not ready enough to analyse them without a longer period of time and a larger number of participants in that analysis. What did you suggest? You've proposed new entities operating the woods. We did not want to do this by this law for the simple reason that this law should have recognised the situation on the ground, which means that the state of Serbia has formed public enterprises for the management of state forests, that there are also public undertakings in many cities, which care for forests in the territory of these cities. And we recognized that, it didn't exist in the previous law. Of course, we also recognized scientific institutions and colleges that also manage certain areas of forest in state property, and now they are recognized as the ones they will manage. This is about one of your proposals, which I said we couldn't go to at this point because we don't know what Serbian citizens are going to say. Also, one of your proposals was insurance and reinsurance. And for that, I said that should be analysed in the next period with several aspects. It's the only thing you're suggesting, and I'm saying it has a basis for analysis and consideration in the next period. I don't know what the profession would say or what the citizens of Serbia would say. As for the system laws in the environment, we need them, we miss them, you say. You know, I've recently been and I've announced environmental laws, but you should also know that environmental directives change very quickly at EU level and that laws require a dynamic change. So, there are no system laws that will have one lifetime indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38172	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38173	Just for a little while, the chairman, about addressing my colleagues. I would really suggest that the Ministry of Agriculture consider what we're talking about. There is a huge problem and we will have opportunities to talk about it, but there is a huge problem throughout Serbia, especially in Vojvodina. We've got to get a piece of agricultural land in the forest or with that little seremise. It's not about this law, but it's about everything that has to do with our environment, our forests, etc. So let's think about the model. And yet, my colleague, now that you say so, you support it. You support it, but such a model can only be supported with subsidies. Again we must find where, from where to subsidize. Because if one part of the agricultural land is determined by the law that it must be forested, those owners of that land must be subsidized, compensated for what they lose. I hope in the future that we will succeed, and this which we don't subsidize a lot, these companies that haven't done anything in 20 years, that part of the money we all try to bring back to the Ministry of Agriculture together, instead of in some other items, to think about maybe this budget and start doing it, because that's the only solution. I don't see any other solution. So look when we travel, when we look at other countries, it really is. So, it's not just to see it working, it's to see that there are forests, there's a forester, there's everything and everything, even on a flat surface. In both our neighbouring Hungary and other countries, that's the way it is. So let's try to get something back into that situation that we used to have, and we lost, not now, but many, many years back and decades, because we didn't really take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38174	Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Aleksandar Senic, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 44th amendment. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38175	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, another in a series of system laws. I didn't want to question your reasoning in your earlier address, I understood you well, but I still think we must continue to change the laws and fix Serbia. This amendment applies to fees for the use of forests and forest land and compensation for improving the general useful functions of the forest. We predicted here and of course this proposal should go through some debate, if it would be accepted. We feel as Green Serbia that bad things must be taxed. In Serbia and most of the world, unfortunately, good things are mainly taxed, so one example is heating wood and pellets. VAT is 8% and VAT is 20%. In the beginning, the product is 12% more expensive and you bring it into an unequal position. We have to change and there's a way we can't get out of the budget without subsidizing or helping. Therefore, we propose that the applicants, the basics and the amounts of compensation for improving the general useful functions of the forest to be referred to the forest budget fund with a view to improving the general useful functions of the forest. We all need these functions. They once abolished this fee with an explanation - why do the Belgraders pay even useful functions of the forest? So the Belgraders most should pay for the general useful functions of the forest because they spend the most oxygen and produce the most carbon dioxide per capita, and that demagogue minister then abolished it. The largest air pollutants or product manufacturers that contribute to maximum air pollution would be the largest CO2 emitters obliged to pay this compensation for raising new forests. So if we were to enter that, which is a circular economy, a circle of transportation from planting, transport, production of carbon dioxide, we would see, if we were to introduce eco-innovation, if we were to bring in green innovation, to achieve substantial savings in both money and money, and what, unfortunately, liberal economists do not count, saving in quality air, saving in quality water, saving in the quality health of citizens and citizens of Serbia. We have often addressed you with proposals, with parliamentary questions. We brought you 11,000 signatures for the Sabbath without dangerous waste, so you reacted. We expect you to sometimes invite us to tell you how you can infuse some law before it enters the procedure. I am sorry that this division between the position and the opposition is so great that even when I address the ministries and the Prime Minister with a request to bring seven European MPs to the Green European Party in Belgrade, I am not fit for 15 days. It's a tragedy for me of this society and it's a fundamental misunderstanding between the position and the opposition. Was that before? It probably is, but when you have seven European MPs coming to Serbia, and you're not answering a single ministry, that's the defeat of this society for me, and I'm sorry to have to say this in public. The first letter I sent to ministers to receive European MPs has been over two weeks, and I am sorry that no one is responding. I didn't send you because it's not a topic, it's not a topic of the environment, it's migration, refugees, European integration, etc. The ministers in charge of these areas have not yet checked in. If they're watching this, maybe they'll call me back. I am bringing these European MPs on a beautiful mission to the state of Serbia to help Serbia's European integration, to assist Green in the European Parliament, a policy that is currently very good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38176	Mr. Karic, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38177	Let me just finish my sentence. I think the policy of the Serbian state towards refugees is very good, that the government's policy towards integration is very good. The European MPs are coming on this mission and we can help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38178	Thank you. Replica, Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38179	When you mention fees I just want to remind you we talked about them two days ago and for your sake, but also for the public to tell me with this bill we didn't edit the question of compensation, only what we were dealing with, and when it comes to fees is the basis for determining the fees for using wood for economic or other purposes. So far, the basis has been the income from forest management, and we are now proposing revenue from the use of forests, and we appreciate the fact that bossing is one broader concept and that the income that is based on it is made bigger than the income from the use of forests. As for all other things relating to compensation, they will be governed by special system law, the law on fees for the use of natural goods, natural resources, and then you will have the opportunity to maybe some of what you said today when you say the law on procedure, because then you may have a sense, and for us now it really doesn't make sense, because we simply don't edit those questions. Moreover, for the sake of truth and for the sake of the public, it is that we have no intention of imposing these solutions on our foresters, our owners, our users, any major imposition, or any major obligation in terms of money, or giving. Thank you for mentioning Capca, it is true that you have obtained the signatures, but I must remind you that before you obtained the signatures, last year at this time, we addressed the government and the finance minister with the desire to define the means to address the issue of the disposal of dangerous industrial waste. No one's ever done that waste before. So, what I'm saying is we've come to an understanding. The funds were allocated when you sent us a petition if it hadn't been for this previous operation of ours, previous activities, certainly so we couldn't finish the job this year. This is how we ended up in Capco, and we ended up in ten other locations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38180	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Bečić, the Honorable Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic and, of course, honored guests and guests from the Ministry, Mr. Zivkovic and I have submitted one amendment to Article 53, which we propose to amend points 12, 16, 17, 18, 27 and 37 in Article 53 of the amended Article 111, gentlemen. Our proposals for all these changes have been accepted. And, of course, Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, that is always the reason for a national MP who is committed to his legislative work in the National Assembly to declare a small victory in this dialogue. And, gentlemen, not only the victory of one MP or two MPs, but the victory of parliamentaryism which, I hope, we want to build here. I consider it very appropriate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and when Mrs Marash, for example, answers the word for not accepting our amendment, but directs one card to the opposition MPs, when we opposition MPs here announce that perhaps for the first time in this conference we have received a very clear, precisely formulated explanation of why something is not accepted, and that this reasoning concerns the rules of the Serbian language. It wasn't really a situation until now. I'm right to tell you surprised, but my expectation is also. I consider it appropriate, gentlemen, that, for example, Mrs Miladinović or Mrs Maras or Mr Neđo Jovanovic or Mr Dragojevic also now rise up, report to the word and say – bravo opposition MPs when our two amendments were accepted, when Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic said here – we accept the amendments, because of the arguments given. That would also be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38182	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a national message, Mariana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38183	Dear People's MP Pavicevic, I will certainly take the opportunity to thank you for these amendments that have been accepted by the ministry and the government. Of course, that's the role the opposition should play, to have constructive proposals. It also shows the honourable minister, because when the proposals are justified and beneficial, they will always accept the legal solution. It is a control role that the opposition have to perform and in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38184	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38185	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am simply surprised, yesterday was also an attempt to be offended. Parliamentism is told by a person who yesterday felt that I had no right to comment on amendments, or amendments submitted by other MPs. In fact, he probably thought he was some elite, especially a valuable person. A person who is exclusively worthy of attention, and that all other MPs with their own quality, of course, are not just verbally good enough for his academic personality. Today, a person of such parliamentary potential who has challenged other MPs to comment not only on the laws but on the comment of the amendments, saying – so to you, this and that defends the law, and it is an exclusive obligation for MPs to pass laws, other regulations, to debate, as he says at the sanctuary of democracy, and then thinks that there are MPs who are less valuable, less valuable than he is and are not worthy to comment on amendments that he and his fellow Members submit to other laws. He declares victory. In a parliamentary debate, I don't believe there's a winner, but I will allow that kind of victory to be declared. It's almost amazing to get out of it and ratings in future elections and so on. I think it's finally time for the commentator of these amendments, his academic highness, to wake up, to return to reality, to add two zeros below those seven, seven and that it's time that, if he can't wake up, to pinch and touch reality, to establish his own party rating, his rating, and that in the future if he wants to declare the victory of parliamentaryism, he doesn't dispute other MPs to do his job, because I don't believe he's a particularly valuable person in this society because he's only a language from the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38186	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38187	I thank the chairman. Given that the SPS parliamentary group has also been mentioned, a number of SPS MPs, I must note that the affirmation of democracy by MP Pavicevic, by those who advocate to put dialogue on pedestal, the sanctuary of democracy and everything else, no doubt enjoys the support of the position, or the government to which the SPS belongs. We have recognized that the actions of the honourable MP Pavicevic, today represents one as a constructive dimension, which is why what he said is respected, unlike, not very constructive, I will not say destructive, but in any case obstructive methods of action when the amendments are submitted - is deleted, deleted. But in any case, today we have an evolutionary step forward, by MP Pavicevic, evolutionary in every sense of the words that implies his progress in accepting dialogue in the way we want to realise and as part of the government, and especially the SPS, because this dialogue is finally recognised as something that implies the quality of lawmaking. As long as Honorable counterpart Pavicevic participates in the adoption of quality laws, it is doubtless that, as our distinguished colleague, Parliamentarian Maraš Marijana, has said, will be accepted with support and will always have support as it works. Otherwise, of course, the SPS cannot accept any way of working that involves obstruction and government and the adoption of quality laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38188	I thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Pavicevic, what you asked for, you do not have the right to reply to Mr. Risticevic's presentation, but Mr. Jovanovic felt that you cared terribly about you now, and mentioned you in his presentation, although you cannot get two replicas, since he mentioned you twice, but you will get one replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Bečić, the esteemed Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the honored guests and guests of the Ministry, Mr. Neđo Jovanovic has now mentioned several words, obstruction, destruction, but the key word, Mr. Jovanovic, for my actions, is destruction. I have to tell you here now, when you, for example, are. You're suggesting, for example. and to me, that it might be destructive if we focused our actions on the amendments - it is deleted, that Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic today accepts as the first amendment, Mr Petric's amendment, Mr Jovanovic, which reads - is deleted. Does this mean to Mr Jovanovic, that Mrs Boskovic Bogosavljevic, a member of your party, is destructively acting in this National Assembly. Well, it doesn't, Mr. Jovanovic. That is why I recommend to you, Mr Jovanovic, that you accept, that in my actions and us MPs of the New Party, when we submit the amendments - it is deleted, that it means that we have a strong reason that it is usually an irreparable law and that we amendments, Mr Jovanovic, want to cancel what is the meaning and value of this poor bill. That's why I think it's good to agree and to respect the argument of our New Party MPs when we submit amendments is deleted, now it wasn't because it's not about destruction, but about what I think is very precise, appropriate, consensual and the Serbian language dictionary, and action in politics can be called, Mr. Jovanvic, by destructing someone who performs in the name of the executive government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38190	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38191	Thank you, Chairman. We in the SPS parliamentary group do not normally lead the controversy and do not want to lead the polemics especially in a way that implies a significantly reduced level of dialogue and that democratic dialogue that merits this parliament. But when I said that participation in law-making through action, as Mr Pavicevic often says, the amendments are deleted, then I meant only if everything that through this alleged destructure indicated by Mr Pavicevic's amendments were accepted, then we would come into an absurd situation not to adopt any single law for the simple reason that the amendments proposed by fellow Members of Parliament are, in principle, amendments that are submitted to all members of the system laws. Then how do we get to one quality if we literally delete everything that's been suggested? Of course I will no longer appear in this way to conduct such a dialogue because MPs of the SPS are neither required nor wanted in any case. We want to participate in the work of this Parliament in the way that it deserves, above all, Parliament and democracy in this Parliament, on the other hand, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia expects us to help the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a way that obliges every MP, that citizens experience what they expect from us, and these are quality laws. I also expect it from Mr Pavicevic, and I am confident that through this evolution of his work in the future, he will reach that level to agree with us that this is the only way of doing it in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38192	Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, since your colleague has even mentioned your name and last name three times, you have the right to reply. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the distinguished Mrs. Boskovic Bogosavljevic, the honored guests and guests from the ministry, are the two remarks I would like to make in this replica to announce to Mr. Neđa Jovanovic, Mr. Bečić. First, Mr. Nejko Jovanovic said the following thing, that to follow this example of submitting amendments is deleted, then the situation would happen if we never adopted any draft laws. But, dear gentlemen, that would be true if we had submitted amendments to each bill, and we had not submitted amendments to every draft law to delete, here's an example, an example of a bill on forests that today defends the minister of the SPS member, where we have submitted seven amendments none of which reads - is deleted, gentlemen. So it would now be appropriate, I think, in the spirit of our parlamometerism, for example. Mr Jovanovic, though he said he would no longer appear, because it is not appropriate to continue this dialogue to report on the word now, Mr Becic, and to say that he was wrong in one piece and that he respects what my efforts as an opposition MP are also as well when we talk about acting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When a law deserves amendments, such as "lex specialis", in my court, about "Belgrade on Water" we had a day and night debate. Was it so, Mr. Jovanovic? Would there have been a debate if it hadn't been for our approach? No, Mr. Jovanovic. The same thing was yesterday when we almost stayed till midnight. Was it worth it? It was worth it, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38194	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I understand that you enjoy this area, but we need to get back to the agenda, Mr. Pavicevic, to talk a little bit about the agenda of interest for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38195	I want to thank you at the end of today's debate with all the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38196	I apologize, Madam Minister, so we have more amendments. I apologize, this debate has confused you, we have another number of amendments. I asked you to lick the amendment after you were reported. Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 54th amendment. Thank you. The 54th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 55th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. On Article 55 of the amendment, with correction, submitted by the people sent by Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Prof. Jankov Veselinović submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. In section 28 of the List of Forests and Forest Lands of Forest Areas, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. In section 28 of the list of forests and forest land in forest areas, the amendment was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38197	Dear People's MPs, I would like to thank you for a very constructive debate and for the discussion of the law in principle and today's debate in particular, that is, according to amendments. I'm glad this law has caused this much attention to yours. I believe that we have all managed together to present to our citizens what it is that everything carries with it the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Forests. I am convinced that this is a good law, a law that will significantly improve the current situation in the forestry of the Republic of Serbia. With previous laws passed just over two weeks ago by the National Parks Act and three laws confirming international agreements in the area of agriculture, this is another law addressing systemic issues in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. I also want to invite you to prepare for a new set of laws in the area of agriculture. We delivered the National Assembly, or the Government, to the National Assembly, the Law on Strong Alcoholic Drinks, the Law on Land, I expect them to be in this procedure of our public debate and discussion, in just a few days, perhaps in these less than two weeks. Very soon they will arrive in the assembly procedure, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, so that we continue our association in the Assembly Hall, and at the same time I call on you to participate in the public debate, i.e. in the public presentation of the three laws that have been prepared and sent to obtain consent and opinions, and this is about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Waste Management and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Public listening to these three laws will be organised here in the Serbian Parliament on 28 and 30 October and in this public hearing in the organization have helped us greatly, i.e. the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. I invite you all to participate so that we can be as prepared as possible when this debate is held within the Assembly. Once again, I thank you all until we see each other again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-23-0.u38198	I thank you, Madam Minister. Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in particular. I'm taking a break now. Until 13:45, it's the session's sequel. I would like to thank the Minister and the members of the government for their participation in this part of the session. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Proposal for a new item to be placed on the agenda. I remind you that the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government is based on Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session should be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to terminate the act of a member of the High Council of Justice from the Orders of the Faculty of Law, which submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2015. In accordance with Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure on the Proposal for a Agenda for the selection, appointment, resolution and termination of the emergency procedure during the sitting may be decided by the National Assembly on the condition that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of Members of Parliaments. Therefore, before we move to a decision on this proposal, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. I am putting on the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the High Council of Justice from the ranks of the professors of the Faculty of Law. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the 140 MPs present. I find that most of the votes of the assembly have accepted this proposal. We continue our work and move on to a unique search of the new, 7th item of the agenda - A PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION TO STOP THE FUNCTION OF THE MEMBER STATE OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURT OF COURSE You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the Committee for Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Before the search opens, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does National MP Peter Petrovic, president of the Committee, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since we do not have a list of elected MPs for the floor, I am concluding a single search into the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 23 October 2015 starting at 13.57 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if the session is attended by most of the total number of MPs. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 134 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF IMPLEMENTATION After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting on a vote on the investment bill, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – five, abstentions – none, one of the 145 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments of the People's MPs Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Vojislav Vujic, Katarina Rakić, Milisava Milojevic, Aleksandra Tomic, Vladimir Marinković, Aleksandr Senić to members 3, 6, 10, 15, 17 and 20; Aleksandre Tomić, Zoran Babić to members 5, 16, 18 and 41; Protector of citizens, MPs Marko Đurić, Aleksandra Senić, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Home, Blaža Bradić and National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurić, Milena Bircanin, Ivana Bauer, Vesna Karadić, Branka Karavidić, Branko Home, Slobodan Home, Blažijko Bradić and Mirović, and Mr Mirović. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of six MPs from the group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Corovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia submitted to the 3rd amendment, with a correction. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was filed by a group of nine MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 141 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group and a group of five MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 7th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic in the same text. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava III, the title of Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Vesna Martinović, Aida Ćorović and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 11th amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted for 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the BORIS TADIC group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 146 of the total attendance of the 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League and a group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who voted 146 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 12th amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Corovic and Jovanovic Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the BORIS TADIC group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 146 of the total attendance of the 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – 147 of the total attendance of the 151 People's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted 151 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Corovic and Jovanovic submitted the 13th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the BORIS TADIC group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who voted 146 out of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – 146 out of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic submitted the amendments together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment during the examination of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – one, with abstention – there are no votes, eight of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the BORIS TADIC group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 146 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 146 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava IV, the name above the members and Article 15 of the amendment was filed by a group of five MPs from the BORIS TADIĆ group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 146 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the BORIS TADIC group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 16th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Martinovic, Aida Ćorovic and Jovanovic together submitted the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs from the BORIS TADIC group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Suzanne Spasojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the Democratic Party group and the MP of the academicist Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 11 of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs from the Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 21st amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that no one, against anyone who is abstentioned, has voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-Party parliamentary group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Suzanne Spasojevic, submitted to the 21st Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 134 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 22nd amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vesna Martivović, Aida Corovic, Jovana Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 23rd amendment, a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-Party parliamentary group for democratic action. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 23rd amendment. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment during the review of the draft law in particular. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted eight of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. A group of nine MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia group tabled an amendment proposing that a title and a new member of 23a be added after article 23. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Martivović, Aida Ćorovic, Jovana Jovanovic, submitted to the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the Social Democratic Party of Vojvodina submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Under the name of Glava V and Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Vladimir Pavicevic and a group of six MPs from Boris Tadic-Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by the MP of the academics, Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by National MP Adrian Anastasov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 26th amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 26th amendment in the same text, MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragana Sutanovac and a group of six MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS-ZZS-ZS submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none, with abstentions – did not vote 144 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted to the nations by an academic MP, Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Glava VI, the name of the member and member of the 27th amendment in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 146 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by the peoples of MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 28th amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 146 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 29th amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 30th amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 31st amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the peoples by academic MP Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 146 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by the peoples by MP Adrian Anastasov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MP Milorad Stosic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 32nd amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentioned ones voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 33rd amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentioned ones voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 33rd Amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the name of the member and member of the 34th amendment in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 35th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 36th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by a group of seven MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the MP of the academics Ninoslav Stojadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 37th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 145 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 37th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 38th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 144 out of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 out of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 39th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the member and member of the 40th amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and a group of six MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia -- submitted to the 41st amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Suzanne Spasojevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 45 of the amendment, in the same text, a group of six MPs from the Social Democrats League of the League and a group of nine MPs of the SPS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 47 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Zivkovic and MP Vladimir Pavicevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the investment bill, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – four abstentions – there are no, no three votes, of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on investment. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Agency for LICENCE OF VALENTIFICATE GOVERNMENTS Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Accountants, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, six of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 which was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 out of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 out of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak Group – Party for Democratic Action – submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted for 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, against – four abstentions – there are no votes, six out of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers. We are moving to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON CONTRACTIONAL FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURE I am putting to the vote the draft law on contractual financial restructuring, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not eight of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become amendments submitted by MP Milan Petrovic as member of the 17th and group of seven MPs from the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia to Article 23. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted for 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted for 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted for 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, abstention – has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of seven MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs to the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs from the LSV group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS-ZZS-ZS-ZS and National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of seven MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am voting on the draft law on contractual financial restructuring, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – four abstentions – there are no votes, three of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law on contractual financial restructuring. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Development Partnership, bearing in mind that, pursuant to Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on development co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one with abstention – has voted three of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON COURSES Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Forests, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – two abstentions – there are no votes, nine of the total 148 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the MPs: Milan Petric, member 1, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, member 9, Zoran Babic, member. 36, 51, 54 and 55, Vladimir Pavjevic on members 53 and 54 and Zoran Zivkovic on member 53. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – four against – 143 out of the total of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS-ZZS-ZS, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDS-ZZ-ZS-ZS and a group of 10 MPs from the DS, submitted to the 12th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 141 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 out of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 10 MPs from the DS Group submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Mladen Lukic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by a group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -no one, against-no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic -- SDP, the ZZS, Green Serbia, submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDP, the ZZS, the Green Serbia -- submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of five MPs from the SDA Sandzak-PD submitted to the amendment 42nd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Boris Tadic group -- the SDP, the ZZS, the Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the parliamentary group, Boris Tadic – SDP, the ZZS, Green Serbia, submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the LSV group submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 54, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - two, abstentions - there is no, 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To Section 28. The list of forests and forest land in the forest areas of the amendments was submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 137, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. To Section 28. The list of forests and forest land in the forest areas was submitted by MP Mladen Lukic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 148 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Forests, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 139, v - five, abstentions – there are no, five of the total of the 149 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. We move to item 6 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the People's General Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS Group. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – has voted five of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by most of all the MPs. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION on the termination of a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary from the Order of Professors of Legal Faculty. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, and before we move on to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105, paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the termination of the post of member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of a member of the High Council of the Judiciary of the Law School Professors. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by most of all the MPs. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 20 October 2015, at 18 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 134 of the 134 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 22 October 2015, at 20 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 133 of the total of 133 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 22 October 2015, at 22 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the three abstentions, voted 129 of the total attendance of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
