ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43149	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the amendments to the Health Insurance Act that are before you today are proposed to extend the rights of insurance companies referred to abroad, as well as members of their family, so that the certificate of use of health care abroad is issued for a period for which the insurance company has been sent to work abroad, and until now that certificate has been limited to 12 months, or 90 days. The proposed amendments allow the insurance and family members referred to abroad not to have to return to the country every year to issue a certificate of use of health care abroad, which is the case under applicable rules. This amendment has been proposed on the basis of the Foreign Ministry's initiative, given that, according to current regulations, these persons have to return to the country for 12 months to issue a new certificate on the use of health care abroad, and this presents a problem and additional costs especially in the event that those persons are addressed to work outside Europe. Also, the proposed solutions do not require additional funding. Referring to the above, we have proposed an amendment which implies that the certificate of use of health care abroad for an insurance undertaking which is addressed to work abroad, or a member of the insurance family, which has been issued until the date of entry into force of this law and any proposed amendments, also applies for the period for which the insurance undertaking is addressed to work abroad. In this way, the insurance company, as well as their family member, has been granted a health protection certificate until the date of entry into force of this law, its validity for the period referred to abroad and not for 12 months as applicable. Also, this solution does not require additional material resources. The following changes relate to the fact that, at 35% of the basis for the remuneration of earnings in case of temporary prevention for disease or complications related to the maintenance of pregnancy, which is provided from the Republic's budget, it pays to the employer rather than to the insurance company, i.e. pregnant women, as it has been so far, as this has led to problems with the billing of payment of this ex post profit insurance company. In fact, according to a valid solution for the amount of 100% of the income from the basis for the remuneration on which the insurance company is entitled in case of temporary prevention due to illness or complications related to maintenance of pregnancy, double forms are filled especially for 65%, especially for 35% and 65% of employers, for 35% of RFZO and accordingly, no simultaneous payment is made. We believe that the proposed changes of a pregnant woman will be in a better position because in practice, the payment of a pregnant woman's fee has created practical problems which, among other things, led to a late payment. Also, the proposed solutions do not require additional funding, since they are already covered by the RSO's annual financial plan, i.e. the Republic's budget. The proposed amendments to the Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health are examined in that an extension of the time limit is proposed for the submission of sublegal acts for the implementation of this law from 12 months to 24 months from the date of entry into force of the law and in order to create a legal precondition for the practical application of the law. Namely, the Health Documentation and Registration Act in the area of health has established a period of 12 months from the date of entry into force of this law on the adoption of rules implementing the law. Since the public procurement procedure for the integration of the health information system was also carried out during this period, which was only recently completed, as complaints had been lodged, it was not possible to pass within the prescribed time limit for the law to be implemented. In this connection, the next amendment is viewed as proposing to postpone the application of this law by applying it from 1 January 2017 instead of 1 January 2016. In view of the proposal to extend the time limit for the adoption of sublaws in accordance with the proposed postponement of the application of the law. Otherwise, a smooth system of work of health institutions and health systems in general will be disrupted, in the light of Article 60 of the Law, which stipulates that the date of application of this law ceases to apply, as well as the Law on health records in the field of health care, the functioning of the health system in the field of records and reporting will be seriously compromised, and thus the health system in general, which can result in adverse consequences for human health. The passing of this law creates a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the health system. The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act provides for the acquisition of the founding rights at the city clinical-patient centres in the Republic, which implies a precise regulation of the founding rights of the Republic in relation to the clinical and hospital centres. The existing legal solution found that the founder of the city’s clinical and hospital centre, given that the clinical hospital centre, in addition to the conditions provided for by the Law on the implementation of secondary and health care, also performs highly specialised health care activities, which also implies a high level of equipment of the health institution for the performance of health care activities, created conditions for the establishment of this type of health institution by the Republic. The Health Protection Act found that the founder of a health institution, at the primary level of health care of municipalities or cities, and that the founder of a health institution at the secondary and territorial level of health care of the Republic and on the territory of the AP. Since the Clinical and Hospital Centre is a stationary health institution that performs health work at secondary and therapeutic level of health care, which is of particular importance for the Republic, given the other provisions of the law, we believe that the founding rights to clinical and hospital centres should be exercised by the Republic. Through the acquisition of founding rights by the Republic at clinical and hospital centres, it is primarily achieved that the establishment of a legal basis for capital investment by the Republic, thereby improving the conditions for performing health care, given that the clinical hospital centre is a stationary health institution that performs health care at secondary and therapeutic level of health care, of particular importance for the Republic. The proposed legal solutions are reorganised by the Institute of Supplemental Work in the Health System. Namely, it is predicted that a healthcare professional, a health associate, as well as another person employed in a health institution, or private practice in another legal person who performs health work in accordance with a full-time law, may carry out certain tasks from his profession with another employer, outside of regular working hours by concluding a supplemental contract with another employer and a total duration of one-third of full-time work. It is necessary to inform the Director of the Health Institute or the Founder of the private practice and of the other legal person who performs the health work, in accordance with the law, who works full-time. The health care institution or private practice shall keep records of the contracts and of the supplementary work they have completed. One copy of the original contract on supplementary work of a healthcare professional, a health associate and another employee delivers a health inspection within 15 days of the date of completion of the contract. This creates conditions for the monitoring and control of the application of supplementary work institutes in the field of health care. The proposed solutions to the law will not generate additional costs for patients or citizens as well as for businesses or small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the implementation of this law will create additional costs for the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which are already provided for the work and performance of healthcare activities in health institutions under the health care system plan. Namely, by assuming founding rights to clinical and hospital centres by the Republic, funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget should be provided, since this type of health institution, in addition to secondary healthcare, carries out a highly specialised health care activity that implies a high level of equipment of a health institution. It is also necessary to provide funds for investment investment. Through capital investment to build and equip health institutions in state property, conditions for the operation of health institutions and the provision of adequate space and necessary equipment are improved, thus ensuring a higher level of quality of health institutions for citizens of the Republic and greater availability to patients. In view of the above estimates, it is necessary for these purposes to provide funding in the budget of the Republic of Serbia of 150 million dinars, which are defined for 2016, given that that provision relating to the founding rights over clinical centres will enter into force from 1 January 2016. The other solutions provided for by this law already exist in the healthcare system, i.e. only the changed entities which are the bearers of these transactions. In view of the above, it can be concluded that the costs foreseen are justified, given the positive effect they will have on the organisation and operation of the healthcare service. In the long term, the resources needed to provide are minimal in relation to the positive effects that will primarily affect the quality of providing health care to Serbian citizens. This draft law creates opportunities to further improve the work of health institutions and private practices, as well as other legal persons performing health care. The solutions proposed by this law are the result of the co-operation and consultation of the Ministry of Health, the competent authorities of the City of Belgrade and representatives of the health unions who agreed that this proposed legislative solution would affect the organisation and quality of the work of these health institutions that are in the interest of providing health care to the citizens of the Republic. The draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act sets out the possibility for foreign citizens who do not carry out health work in the Republic of Serbia, based on the approval of the Ministry of Health of the State from which they enroll specialisation and narrow specialisation directly to one of the colleges of health professions in the Republic of Serbia. In fact, the legal solution so far is not complete because the specialisation of foreign citizens who have graduated from the university of health professions does not carry out health work in the Republic of Serbia should not be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia. The more comprehensive and efficient solution is that the Ministry of Health in a country where a stranger performs health work as a profession can approve specialisation, i.e. narrow specialisation in accordance with the law and instruct the candidate to enroll directly on some of the schools of health professions in the Republic of Serbia. The conditions, the way and procedure of enrolment would regulate mutual agreements. The proposed amendments to the Health Protection Act allow healthcare professionals to be licensed in competent chambers or associations. The issue, renewal and withdrawal of the licence is a procedure carried out by the competent chamber in order to determine the professional competence of healthcare professionals for independent work. The decision on the issued, renewed or withdrawn licence shall be made by the Director of the Competent Chamber. Since health associates from different areas are employed in health care institutions, the Health Care Professionals Act does not prescribe the licensing of health associates. Medical associates should be licensed in competent chambers, or associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43150	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has a folk letter from Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43151	President, esteemed ministers and associates of Minister Loncar, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, whenever we talk about the laws of the field of health we think of a man, we think of a person who is in a position to apply some medical measure from advice to those of the most subtle, most serious and professionally demanding interventions that mean the treatment of our most difficult patients. With these amendments and additions these three laws, the Government of the Republic of Serbia actually proposes that once again on the legislative plan, we do what is important, related to founding rights, what is important for insurance companies, or potential patients and what is important for the regulation of our laws, so that in some segments we gradually create better conditions for prevention, good diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of Serbian citizens. It is three laws that we are discussing today, amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which are the basis of health legislation and amendments to the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. This latest amendment to the Health Documents and Records Act in the field of health is just a seemingly technical nature, because the essence of this change is that on the principles of modern technology and the application of the information system, and with the sublegal act to be done while the information system for every healthcare entity in the country is being supplied, conditions are created to raise health care services to a higher level and that a large part of the administrative elements that are largely suffocating the treatment process in health care are reduced to a minimum. In that sense, moving the deadline of one year and the law will start to apply on 1 January 2017, I say only seemingly is of a technical nature. We have talked a lot about this law and it is very likely that MPs will not focus much attention on this technical change, but also behind that change is something that is important. Modern technology, so-called IT and one literacy in the electronic system in health will allow our patients to spend much more time in what is called contact, making a partner relationship, introducing patients in a commitment to participate in their treatment themselves, and thus modern technologies will very much support what is the essence of all of us sitting in these benches, raising the quality of health care. Of course, I would also like to focus my attention and your attention first and foremost on the amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, and in that sense I would like to say that the extension of health insurance rights, and these changes and additions are exactly what they do, we are again focusing our attention on the fact that the Republic Health Insurance Fund is not and should not be just a bank, only an institution that collects contributions to health care that we all pay out of our salaries, pensions, receipts. The Republic Health Insurance Fund certainly supports the health system by proper distribution of financial resources in a good way, but we must agree that some categories of insurance really are in need of special care. The need for persons sent as a country abroad to work to come under the current law each year and those and members of their family who are provided through them to extend only the need to have all health insurance rights was indeed a new treatment for people, it was indeed embossed with the financial costs of these people and it is indeed a step forward in achieving the rights of people with as little administrative difficulties as possible to bring about the realisation of health insurance rights. I think this proposal is more than logical and I think it's an extremely good example of the co-operation of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Republic Health Insurance Fund. In that sense, this activity of the Ministry of Health could serve as a model for other ministries, as something that took years... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43152	Mrs. Dejanovic, time's up, please. Just finish your sentence. Time's up as a reporter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43153	And you gave me as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43154	No, I gave it to you as a committee reporter, but if you want to be authorized, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43155	I'm sorry, I didn't want to use law as a committee reporter, because there was no debate, just accepted everything. Thank you. I'll continue...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43156	Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, it's not a problem. As a rule, you speak at the end of the debate of authorised representatives, but if you don't want to lose your senses, you can continue, if you don't, I'll give you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43157	If you don't mind if I continue and use my right as an authorised representative?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43158	Whatever you want. You can continue to finish all 20 minutes, and you can call again and have all 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43159	Thank you. I simply did not report as a representative of the Health Committee, because all the proposals without some discussion were accepted on the text itself and I have nothing to report. As an authorised representative of the SPS, I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43160	Yes, but you can use your five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43161	Thank you. Well, I don't think we have to be formalists, especially on such important topics as health care, and thank you for having me, I haven't really been...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43162	I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43163	Okay. Thank you. So I'm continuing as an authorised representative. Thank you. So, I just wanted to say that the model of complementarity in the work of a joint co-operation of a larger number of subjects that something that was indeed a formal disturbance to a huge number of people, which we sent abroad as a state, and who had to come once a year to just extend the confirmation that they could achieve insurance rights, has been resolved by the compromise that we are talking about today in the form of a draft amending the law. What is further important is that the particularly sensitive population of our citizens, the citizens, are the insurance families. All health disorders during pregnancy, all the reasons for their illness and how they draw attention to all family members and we are all sensitive to the subject of natality. However, we must be objective. A small number of ministries that are very specific about the position of maternity and from the aspect of the exercise of their rights do something concrete. Our Ministry of Health has made this change, adding that the financial resources that the RFO from the budget will deliver to the employer in a certain way made it necessary for the employer to pay the maternity payments to be regular and regular. The benefits they receive, which are really necessary first of all for their existence, for planning the future, for the life of the child, and which means one of the countries in the period in which each man is most sensitive, find the outcome in the proposal of this law, and I have no doubt that all MPs of the opposition will indeed respond to this amendment and the addition of the law in the style of one absolute support, because it is the right insurance companies, which are certainly the most sensitive in terms of health in the period when they have a health problem, must be on sick leave during the maintenance of pregnancy, and the uncertainty of their fees has knocked on the door on several occasions. Thirty-five percent of the budget, which the RFO will now deliver to the employer, and not to the family itself, will be required to keep the full sum of 100% actually within regular time limits and in continuity paid to the family and we will not be able to come into the situation to wonder why the total deficit of paying for the families is accumulated and why they actually have to pay even taxes sometimes, pay a certain amount of money because it accumulates an incomparably larger amount of money than they actually have a monthly fee. In that sense, I think it is very important that this Parliament demonstrates its relationship to maternity families by supporting such a change of law that has great sensitivity for those who are most needed to this society, not only from the aspect of their own existence and the realization of motherhood, as one of the strongest needs and impulses of women, but from the politics of the birth that is thus guided in quality. Let me refer only to certain changes and additions, not all of them, to the Law on Supplements to the Health Protection Act. Additional work is simply an anthemized category, especially when it comes to healthcare professionals. The amendment of the law, which is proposed, regulates the control mechanism of the supplementary work of health workers, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the Health Protection Act is agreed with the Labour Act. Healthcare professionals are workers like everyone else, co-workers, employed in health institutions, who work full-time at any health care facility. In their spare time, therefore, outside of regular working hours, they may be engaged in the form of supplementary work, but they must make a contract with the employer, inform the director of the institution or the founder of private practice or another entity in which they work full-time and within 15 days of the proposal of this law they must also inform the health inspector. What does that actually accomplish? The ability to control the quality of work of people in the morning is achieved, for example. They work in a health institution, and they do the same work in the afternoon, for example. in private practice or any other health institution from a network of health care institutions in the state health care sector because this sensitivity gives someone highly responsible, perhaps the most responsible job, for example. The doctor or medical associate may work not six, seven hours, but 10 hours a day up to 30% can be of course this supplemental work until full-time and indeed requires the control of the health inspection regarding the professionality of the work that the person performs. Of course, this does not solve all the corruption problems that are somehow focused on supplemental work. When perceptions were analysed, the huge perception of health corruption that citizens have, it was found that procurement, employment and additional work are the most sensitive points of corruption. Centralized supply is actually a response to purchases. The fact that there was a lot of corruption or suspicion of corruption and greater than there was in real life in employment can certainly be solved by correct competitions, and we talked about it on several occasions and by the minister and we had information here and talked about it. When it comes to supplemental work, it was simply considered that health workers, health workers, should not, in some ways, be entitled to additional work. I am convinced that this substance in the legislative plan will be promoted and resolved and in the future, but now a big step has been taken. In the health ministry's management, only work expertise and cannot be expected from the health ministry to monitor financial flows. If he suspects, it is up to everyone to report suspicions of financial flows to certain institutions of the system. The financial inspection is the one that will monitor the financial flows of money in payment, in various financial transactions for persons working in supplementary work, and the quality of work is actually in the control of the Health Ministry inspection services. We are now asking for the first time that someone in the supplemental work be personally responsible for the information of the inspection services, that within 15 days from the moment he made up the supplemental work contract, that contract be forwarded to health inspectors, or health inspectors, who will certainly take care of the insurance company again, of the patient. Because the quality of the work provided by that person in the supplemental work must certainly be more incomparably controlled because we are really in the process when it comes to private practice and some other forms of work. Although this is also an opportunity to say that quality people of course have both in state and private health and division of private and state health care is not good. On the contrary, the complementarity of the functioning of one and the other with certain conditions for quality work provides an incomparably higher level of quality health care. In that sense, I think we should absolutely support this proposal. I'll say one more thing about founding rights. There is no man who, if he is not of the domain of health and has no higher education, does not ask us MPs - what is your primary, secondary and tertiary health care? Primary health care, which citizens generally experience as homes of health, a pharmacy at the level of units of local self-government, is actually the door to health care. What happens in organised countries and health systems is that 75% of citizens, even up to 80%, achieve their health needs in primary health care. In secondary and tertiary health care, therefore in hospitals, especially in tertiary institutions where high-tech equipment again, the most professional in providing health services, only those patients who cannot achieve their need and protection of health at lower levels should come. It was not logical for the city of Belgrade to have several clinical and hospital centres and be the founder, because I think in recent years these clinical and hospital centres have been impoverished for high-tech equipment, which is more than expensive, because the Belgrade city budget was unable to meet that need. While there are a lot of experts in Belgrade's clinical and hospital centres, the organisation of Belgrade's health institutions was largely such that everything urgent had to go to the clinic's emergency centre. It is quite logical that the professional division of work within Belgrade's clinical and hospital centres is complemented by the Clinical Centre of Serbia and that in fact a single paper can allow one clinical hospital centre in the perspective in particular to develop pulmology, another cardiology, and that they will have to help each other in the interests of citizens who will seek help in Belgrade. Therefore, the highest level of justification for this change of founding rights from the city of Belgrade to the Republic is seen in the fact that the clinical-patient centres will have the opportunity to be supplied with more adequate equipment because of the tertiary health institutions, which will allow citizens to find what is needed on the diagnostics, therapy and rehabilitation plan at the highest level and that Belgrade as a city will be the highest instance for providing health services, and not a single centre in one year will be allocated much less or much more funds for equipment and investment maintenance. It would be good, because we all love and we're all interested in health care, to remind ourselves that RFO provides salaries, provides medications, sanity material, provides utility to health institutions, but that equipment can only be sent to an institution by the founders. So, only Belgrade as a city could buy certain equipment and deliver it to the clinical hospital centres, and since the level of terrarity is indeed more than represented in them, it is logical that the Republic of Serbia assumes this obligation, assumes these founding rights and that in another way we show that it is more than important that health is not divided by wire fences, but rather by spilling from primary health care, through secondary to tertiary to go according to the needs of citizens. Of course, this will certainly be a reason to think again about the founding rights of the lowest level, but this is not in terms of the low level of health care, but of the first level of primary health care that is certainly in many ways missing from the aspect of the space of equipment and personnel. In order to remind the citizens of Serbia once again that these amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, the Health Protection Act and documentation in Serbia, are indeed in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, I thank all those who, together with us from these parliamentary benches, will vote in favour of this proposal, confident that our next activities on the legislative agenda when it comes to healthcare as well as in the Health Committee, will indeed, with maximum respect for the profession and the needs of man to get as much as possible from health care at each level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43164	I thank you, Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. The word is by MP Anamaria Vicek, authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43165	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I will present the position of the SVM parliamentary group on these three draft laws that are before us today. At first, I would like to point out that our parliamentary group will support these laws in the voting day. As for the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, two changes should be highlighted. One change refers to the exercise of the right to health insurance, i.e. the right to use health care during stay abroad for insurance and family members of insurance companies referring to work abroad. It's important that this change be made. In fact, a few weeks ago, in October-November, we talked about the Law on Conditions for sending employees to temporary work abroad and their protection, which was adopted on 3 November of this year and which is precise, among other things, that employees may be referred to temporary work abroad for the longest period of 90 days. The amendment of Article 66 of this Law harmonizes the health law with the social resolute law, which we think is extremely important to stress that it happened now within a very short period of time. It is certainly commendable that the ministries are working to bring the laws of various resolutions into line, so that there is no conflict. The change suggests that confirmation of the use of health care abroad is issued for the same period as the insurance company was sent to work abroad, thus removing the current problem that employees must return to Serbia for extension of healthcare, which could have created problems. It is also to praise the solution provided by Article 2. The draft law, which concerns the amendment of Article 96(5), proposes a better solution to the compensation for temporary prevention of work due to diseases or complications related to the maintenance of pregnancy. According to the current law, in the case of each payment for a given month, double forms were to be filled in, since the employer was the payer of 65% of the cash prize and the RFZO 35%, which all resulted in a late payment. The proposed change in the amount of 35% of the profit base, as we also heard from Mr. Minister, which is transferred from the budget account to the employer, the Fund is transferred to the account of the insurance company. We hope that this amendment of the law will at least reduce the complexity, as well as the repayment, or delay in payment during pregnancy. I am pleased that Professor Djukić Dejanovic has mentioned the problem that we are facing more and more often these days because the mothers who are on leave for child care appear to our parliamentary group with a problem practically threaten them, the tax administration threatens the perpetrators precisely because of the call for payments that are due to late payment on their accounts and we consider that it is not in health care. However, we believe that it should be stressed that at least now with this law which is in the health care portfolio it is the fact that there is no delay in payments when it comes to maintaining pregnancy. The draft Law amending the Law on Health Documentation and Records in the field of health care is also a significant law regarding this because amendments to the applicable Law delay the time limit for the adoption of sublegal acts, as well as the start of the application of the law because the public procurement procedure for the integrated health information system has not been carried out because of the complaints lodged. In short, the Integrated Health Information System project is funded by the European Union with 2.5m euros in pre-accession IPA funds and the project envisions the introduction of a hospital information system in 19 health institutions in Serbia, as well as the development of an electronic health file. It should certainly be stressed that the Integrated Health Information System will support the establishment of a sustainable IT base for Serbia's health system. However, it is important to extend the deadline for the establishment of an Integrated Health Information System for another year, i.e. the time limit for the application of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health on 1 January 2017, so that this amendment should certainly be supported. Third, which is the draft law on amendments to the Health Protection Act, I would like to highlight four extremely important changes. The first amendment is the takeover of founding rights by the Republic over clinical and hospital centres, i.e. on the territory of autonomous provinces. An important legal solution has defined that the founder of a health institution at the primary level of health care - municipality, or city, and in this category of health care facility was also a clinical hospital centre, that the founder of a health care facility at secondary and territorial levels of health care - the Republic, i.e. on the territory of the autonomous province - the provinces, include general hospitals, special hospitals, clinics, institutes and clinical centres. Amendments, i.e. additions to the relevant members of this Act, propose the acquisition of founding rights by the Republic, i.e. an autonomous province over the clinical-patient centres, and thereby achieves, above all, the creation of a legal basis for capital investment by the Republic, i.e. an autonomous province, and thus indirectly, the improvement of the conditions for performing health work. It is important to point out that these changes are not reduced to the powers of the AP Vojvodina, prescribed by the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina in the field of health, this is Article 47, to remind ourselves, in which, among other things, it is prescribed that the AP Vojvodina, through its bodies, establish health institutions in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in accordance with the plan of a network of health institutions adopted by the Government, including: General Hospital, Special Hospital, Clinic, Institute, Clinical Centre, Public Health Institute, Institute of Blood Transfusion and Antibaric Protection, and the proposed amendments to the Health Protection Act are now being added. In point 7 of the same member, AP Vojvodina, appoints and relieves directors, deputy directors, members of the Management and Supervisory Board of the health institutions of which he is the founder, and this provision will also refer to the appointment and discharge of directors, deputy directors, members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board of Clinical and Hospital Centres. The second amendment of the law newly regulates the carrying out of supplementary work in the field of health care. Namely, a healthcare professional, a health associate, as well as another employed person in a health institution, i.e. private practice and another legal person who performs health work in accordance with the law, who does full-time work, can carry out certain tasks from his profession with another employer outside of regular working hours by concluding a supplemental contract with another employer, for a total duration of one-third of full-time work hours. The proposed amendments stipulate that an employee is required to inform the Director of the Health Institute in writing, in which he works full-time on the completion of the supplemental contract with another employer and on the contracts for the supplementary work he has completed, the health institution is obliged to keep records. The proposed amendments are prescribed to provide a copy of the original contract for supplementary work by an employee within 15 days of the date of completion of the health inspection contract in order to control the performance of supplementary work in the field of health care, which certainly makes it a more transparent way and the scope of the supplementary work of healthcare professionals. The third amendment provides for eradicating the position of 2nd Article 185 of the current law, which is regulated to authorise a foreign citizen who has graduated from the university of health profession, and does not carry out health work as a profession in the Republic of Serbia, the minister may approve a specialisation, or narrow specialisation, which is a little confusing. Namely, how can a minister in charge of the health care area of the Republic of Serbia approve a specialisation or narrow specialisation of a foreign citizen, without taking into account the laws and regulations of a given country where that foreign citizen will conduct a specialisation or narrow specialisation? This ultimate non-professional solution should by no means be the power of the minister and it is a good thing that these changes are abolished. A more cellular and efficient solution is that the Ministry of Health, which is a foreigner, performs health work as a profession, approves specialisation, or narrow specialisation in accordance with their law, and directs candidates to enroll directly in some of the schools of health professions in the Republic of Serbia and to specialize or narrow specialisation, and the conditions and conditions and procedures of enrolment of the university should be regulated by mutual agreement. The fourth amendment proposes to delete Article 198(a) and (b) the applicable law relating to the issue, renewal and withdrawal of the licence, which is carried out by the competent chamber in order to determine the professional competence of healthcare professionals for independent work. Since health associates from different areas are employed in health institutions, and the Health Care Professionals Act does not prescribe the licensing of health associates, healthcare associates should be licensed in competent chambers, or associations, and that is the reason for erasing those members. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the SVM parliamentary group will support all three draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43166	Thank you, Mrs. Vicek. The word has Dr Ljiljana Kosorić. Here you go, Mrs. Kosoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43167	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vekic with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, three health laws have been amended in front of the MPs. The SPO MPs will support these laws in the voting day because they create a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the health system, and the ultimate effect is more effective health care and care for the patient. The first of these laws is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. What are the proposed solutions to this law? I would firstly point out that the Health Protection Act established clear founding rights in health institutions, so that, when it comes to institutions at the primary level of health care, the founder of municipalities, i.e. The city, and when it comes to institutions on secondary or territorial level, is the founder of the Republic. But what's been going on so far? For example, there was an existing legal solution that the founder of a clinical hospital centre was a city, although it was a highly specialised institution, and there were problems. First of all, if we have data, and some data tells us that so far at local level, less than 1% of the local budget has been allocated, right for health care, more specifically about 0.8%, which is a really negligible figure compared to the needs that exist, and the problem has been both investment maintenance without talking about expanding capacity or purchasing new equipment or repairing existing ones. Clinical and hospital centres receive and care and patients not only in the city where they were founded but also from all over Serbia, and most of the patients were also frequency when it comes to scanners, magnetic resonances, and service and maintenance of these appliances and similar appliances is quite expensive, and cities had to make their own funds available and manage in some ways. Just as an example, I would say that a helium measurement probe for a magnetic resonance costs about 20,000 euros, which is certainly a major burden for local self-government. With today's proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act, the founding rights of clinical and hospital centres are passed into the jurisdiction of the Republic, thus achieving the creation of a legal basis for capital investments by the Republic and improving the conditions for performing health activities. As far as this law is concerned, the second solution to this bill is to edit additional work. With the existing legal solution, healthcare professionals, health associates and other employees were able to carry out additional work with the employer with which they concluded a full-time contract with another employer. Complementary work in institutions where an employee health care worker has been the basis for a number of types of corruption that has been demonstrated in the past, and the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the law, now a health worker, a health worker and other full-time workers can carry out certain tasks from their profession with another employer outside of regular working time to include a supplemental contract with another employer for up to one third of full-time working hours, and they are obliged to inform the director of an institution where they work full-time, i.e. the founder of private practice, and the health institution is obliged to keep records of supplementary work. The healthcare professional who concludes the supplemental work contract shall be obliged to deliver one copy of the original contract to the health inspection within 15 days. Others on the agenda are the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act and these amendments concern the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance, i.e. Extending the validity of certificates for the use of health care during stay abroad insurance and insurance family members referring to work abroad and valid for the period for which the insurance undertaking is referred to work abroad. So far, these insurance companies have had an obligation to extend the importance of certification every year, which really created unnecessary problems. The third draft law is amending and supplementing the Law on Health Documentation and Records, the law proposed to postpone the application of the law so that the law would start to apply from 1 January 2017. The delay is justified due to the public procurement procedure for an integrated health information system which is not completed due to the complaints lodged and is optimal for an extension of one year to complete the necessary actions and to move the deadlines will create conditions for the smooth functioning of the health system. Once again, to point out that in the voting day, the SPI will accept the proposed legislative solutions and vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43168	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43169	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues from the ministry and fellow MPs, I am sorry that the health minister is not here, but I hope he will return as I speak. Well, here I am, on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, who, of course, will support this set of laws today in front of us. I'm going to refer specifically to Article 2. Health insurance laws. These days, yesterday in the papers, we're talking in the media at all about some misunderstandings that have occurred in law enforcement, and somehow everything always breaks down on women. We have a problem with accumulated payments to pregnant women and maternity mothers who are now being paid that solidarity tax because someone interpreted it that way. Few of them were punished not to receive funds when they needed to, but now we've come into a situation where when they get them to get some of them rejected. Indeed, I mean, I heard that Minister Vujovic is trying to find a solution, but it definitely needs to be found and should definitely stop breaking everything down on women. I'd like to have this Article 2. The law that speaks of these 35% compensations that will now be directly paid to the employer so he to women who, for some reason, are something that we are in 2012, the PUPS parliamentary group on the initiative of our President Milan Krkobbić and that is the experience we wanted to pass on from the city where this training is, that is, where the punishment of women for maintaining pregnancy is corrected in 2010. Women in Belgrade had full pay as if they were working. Unfortunately, in 2011, we did not find understanding here even though we were part of the majority at the time and we had greater support for the opposition forces. I must thank Dr Milosavljevic again, who was the greatest defender of my position, that is, our position, but what we were able to do then is to implement in December the amendments to the Health Insurance Act and to introduce that training, to make up for those 35% of pregnant women to maintain their pregnancy from 1 January 2014. Unfortunately, it's been a year. We know that statistics say that 4%, every fourth woman in Serbia maintains pregnancy, and our mouths are full of birthrights. We're constantly talking about how to increase the birth rate, statistics say that there are more people over 65 than there are in 15 years. Statistics say that if we continue this way in 2030, the Serbs will be 50% in this country. Statistics also tell us that it's necessary for 2.1 children to be born, and we don't have that. All eight towns in Serbia are of which two municipalities of Belgrade have a positive birth rate. If I'm not mistaken there are Novi Pazar, Bujanovac, Sjenica, Tutin, Presevo and only Novi Sad and Belgrade Zvezda and if I'm not mistaken for Surcin, something slightly above zero. If we want to, and that will lead to a major economic problem, we already have a problem, if this trend continues this way it will only be very tragic for this country. The fact is, something in this country has to be fixed. One of the things is this law that we have in front of us today, that is, changing this member, but I don't think that's enough, and I think that we all need to think together about what else we could do and make young women experience this present, which is difficult for all of us. We have between 150 and 200,000 abortions a year. Which is also tragic. We have one Jagodina that disappears every year, but that's why in Kosovo we always have one small town to make, because it's very different from ours. I'd like to just, simply, draw attention that maybe it's a way to get women, to first improve their compensation in any way, from children's supplements, which should be bigger. I know there's no money, but the fact is that there's money for various stands, there's money for different panels, there's money for various analyses. I think that if we had reduced it a little bit and focused more on the direct help of pregnant women and young women, that we would have much better results and that our births would come back to us. We in Belgrade, in some period when we were there from 2008 to 2011, really had a very responsible social policy, including that protection of pregnant women, but there was also support for women who went into artificial insemination, meaning greater, because Belgrade had more money than the republic at the time, but I think maybe we should think about, let's say, introducing mandatory amniocentesis. Come on, I mean it is expensive at one point, as one analysis, but on the other hand it would really lead us to a very healthy population that would be born. So, of course, we're going to give support to all these laws and of course they're going towards improving the lives of all of us and the quality of health services, but we should think a little bit about what else we can do to make young women start having children. I have three children, and I really feel completely responsible for saying this, which I'm saying, but I have the impression that something is moving there, at least in my environment, somehow giving birth to more children. And there are more and more young couples who have, at least two children, somehow I already have no one in my area with one child and that's something that gives us hope and I think that simply, there's little to all the joint powers we could help these women even more. The PUPS Group will, of course, support this proposal, our president always has some new idea of what might be, so let's, let's do this and the great effort has been made, but we've managed to change this law, we've succeeded in being late for a year, but well, we've started to apply that law too. Let's try something new, so if it takes a year, a year. But let's still make another move. Anyway, we'll support this proposal and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43170	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the NS Group Mr Zlata Djeric. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43171	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected co-workers of Mr. Minister and respected citizens of Serbia, we have three laws today that are being amended and complemented by the Health Security Act, the Health Insurance Act and the Health Documentation Act, the records and the area of health care. So, at first glance, these are small changes and additions, but they are very important, very essential for the further everyday life and organisation of the health system, because the health system is looking at every moment for the total mobilisation of society and all resources in order to achieve quality, public health. Health care is a mirror of society, human principles, solidarity and ethics. If we look at what health care is, then we know it's a set of measures, prevention, treatment and disease management, injuries carried out by doctors and other professionals. It covers the implementation of measures to preserve and improve the health of citizens, prevent the prevention and early detection of diseases, injuries and other health disorders and timely and effective treatment of rehabilitation. Quality health care is the one that enables the organisation of resources in the most efficient way, in order to meet the health needs of users for prevention and treatment in a safe way, without unnecessary losses and at a high level of their demands. However, in order to implement those six basic principles of health care, the fairness of healthcare, the accessibility of health care, the continuity of health care, the comprehensiveness of health care, the effectiveness of health care, and the continuous improvement of quality of health care and the need for a truly serious budgetary inflow. We are as a society, faced with poverty and very difficult to achieve all the qualities that health care in modern society requires in everyday life to make citizens feel the safety they need and need. A solidarity and human society is viewed and qualified too much, through those who are unable to make all these needs of health care and pay. We will certainly support these changes and additions in the voting day, because we see support for insurance and Natalie policy, which my colleagues spoke about earlier, but we also see the possibility that the state will solve health care policies in the everyday lives of citizens, which is why the Ministry exists and is organising itself. So what we consider to be a serious shift in these legal changes is that the founding rights of clinical hospital centres will be taken over by the Republic, which will also have the obligation and responsibility and the ability to invest more, to invest more quality, and most importantly, quality equipment, and the most modern equipment of the clinical hospital centres that are responsible for secondary and territorial levels of health care. As for changes and additions, as regards supplemental work, this legal solution is considered to be a more quality solution because it will establish significant supervision of this activity, as regards the amendment and addition of the health insurance law, we believe that insurance companies will be better, more adequate and quality care, feel more secure and exercise their legal rights, as well as members of a narrow family. As for the birth rate and the funds paid to pregnant women, that's the problem with us, which society needs to deal with in particular, and not just to look for a cause in how compensation is paid and how we stimulate birth. We have a much more serious problem in society, and this is the death of solidarity, the awakening of a specific self-centered personality, and it has been raised over a long period of years, and it involves certainly the overall community, and above all, education. So we have to train ourselves to have children, not to be selfish and to acquire only status symbols and to be our only status symbols, and to be our material and main goal in life, which is currently a very current society, but we never talk about it. So it's not the only cause of having children, the lack of funds for pregnant women. Many young families decide on three and more children, and that is what we should welcome, and that they are an example to those who opt for a different life choice. New Serbia will support all three legislative projects in the voting day. We have not proposed any amendments, and we believe that this is enough and very correct by the ministry, and perhaps I would only suggest something that a fellow MP from the parliamentary group said, from the opposition group and what I supported and what I voted for, colleague Blagoja Bradic, suggested that the level of health be made more accessible to all Serbian citizens, not to be this expensive, because dental health is very important in overall health. I think the ministry should consider that the proposal is really good and that it is in one of our next discussions and this proposal, to help the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43172	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Dr Branko Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43173	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of Health, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have here today according to the plan and programme of a set of health laws, i.e. three proposals. The first proposal is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. The second proposal is the Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act and the third proposal is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medical Documentation and Health Records. The first draft law has eight members. The first member speaks of being a clinical hospital center, and what are these clinical hospital centers? This is primarily thought of four clinical centres in Belgrade – Starar, Zemun, Bezanjska Kosa and the Clinical Hospital Centre "Dragisa Misovic" which were under, in some ways, under the city's patronage, or the city of Belgrade, had founding rights. This is based on the proposal of this first member, the city's founding rights are being transferred to a republican level. What's this about? These clinical centres except, as has been mentioned many times so far, that they perform alongside secondary and therapeutic health services, are at the same time the bases of the Medical and Dental Faculty of the University of Belgrade. Based on this article's proposal, we are now getting the formal-legal framework for capital investment from the republican level to enter these call-patient centres. The following two members, also in the draft of this law, i.e. this member of the law, sees the modality for the next 2016 that a certain value of 150 million dinars will be practically available to these clinical and hospital centres. I expect that these investments will be more and more practically next year. The next two members practically define the harmonisation of this process, so Article 2 says the executive body of the clinical hospital centre, which is the director, deputy director, board members and members of the supervisory board, are elected on the basis of a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The third member is talking about not being able to implement the clinic statutes, now this is a new clinical hospital centre, the clinic institutes and the Health Protection Institute, employees of the Ministry of Health, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, cannot come to the implementation of these statutes unless they have previously received the approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The fourth member gives harmonisation of practical relations. Foreign citizens who specialize or specialise in a university of health professions in our country must get the consent of the Ministry of Health of their dominant state, and then the Ministry of Health of their dominant state to make a working agreement with one of the colleges, from our colleges of health professions. So far, how has that been solved? Our Ministry of Health, or our Minister of Health, has granted permission for their specialization, or a license for narrow specialization. The next member, Article 6, deletes two members of the Health Protection Act, those are members of 198a and 198b, where we practically simplify our health everyday life. According to the proposal of this member, healthcare associates working in different health institutions have the possibility of licensing, relicencing, or in a small percentage of the withdrawal of their licences within their chambers, or associations, and not as a fact so far being carried out by the Ministry of Health, or the Minister of Health. The next article gives an interesting way, a more quality way, a new definition of the supplemental work instrument. For the first time now, we have one proposal for a roof law. What does this proposal say? Healthcare professionals, health associates or healthcare professionals in an appropriate health care facility, in an appropriate private health institution or in another legal person involved in full-time health care, are now given the opportunity to sign a supplemental contract with another employer, then the proposal for this law states that this contract must be stored with both employers. And within 15 days of the signing of this contract, that person who practically requires, or requests the possibility of additional work, should be informed of the appropriate health inspection. This is just the beginning, this is an extremely sensitive question. One of our cumulative past experiences suggests that there has been a lot of abuse of supplemental work. This is just the beginning. This is the roof law. What's ahead of us? Let's first define what every doctor of medicine, specialist, sub-specialist must do as part of our regular working hours, it's not easy. Our Montenegrins, i.e. in Montenegro, there is one instinct to define what this should do as part of regular working time. For internal medical branches, whether it's the number of patients examined, for surgical medical branches, whether it's the number of operations, but surgery isn't just a manual, a certain system of manual operations in the operating block, it's surgical patients, a review, it's an indication. Exactly, the number of operations, then post-operative follow-up, so that in the course of the Republic of Serbia's health ministry will have no easy work through sublegal acts to define these further relations. The next member of the proposal for this law, Article 7, represents practically this definition, a new definition of the instrument for complementary work, by matching it with the Labour Act. The last eight members are talking about the implementation of this law starting on the eighth day since the publication in "The Official Messenger". The next bill is a bill on health insurance changes, and it has four members. The first member speaks of the confirmation of the use of health care for insurance companies who refer to work abroad, which primarily means our diplomats and family members, not as long as 12 months, so they came back to extend the certificate, but practically as long as it lasts and this work abroad. The whole procedure is simplified. Another member of the proposal for this law speaks of 35% of the basis for remuneration from the Republic Fund being transferred to the Republic Health Insurance Fund due to temporary prevention due to disease or complications during pregnancy, and then the RFZO transfers those 35% not to the insurance company, pregnant woman, but to the employer. Here we just have to explain something, this is for the first 30 days of sick leave when the employer is obliged to provide 65% of the profit base, and in this case this bill says that these 35% will practically be transferred to the employer's account, so that within the first 30 days, he transfers 100% of the basic income from the pregnant woman, or insurance. This way we save our pregnant women from excess paperwork and at the same time allow them to receive their income in time. The third member of the bill speaks about the fact that insurance companies have already gone abroad, the duration of this health care certificate is as long as their stay abroad is. The fourth law of technical nature. The adoption of this law begins on the eighth day since the publication in the “Official Messenger”. The third draft law is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medical Documentation and Health Records. And this law has three members. The first member speaks of an integrated health information system with 12 months compared to the basic law, its implementation being moved by 24 months. It is a technical problem, so that this duration of implementation, the central information system, should be the heart of our future health system, the heart that will open up the health system, which will show the public, not only between certain levels of health institutions at the primary, secondary, territorial level, but in this way it will be open to patients, so that our patients, if they have an internal or surgical problem, will be able to simulate the story through the internet to enter the appropriate hospital, to enter the Neurosurgery clinic of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, to see how many clinics there are annual operations, which the doctor, the neurosurgeon, has the highest number of operations in certain pathology, whether there are empty beds. In this way we will correct something that has been warned by the European Health Consumer Index European Health Consumer Index, when it rated us. Based on six groups of indicators, this European Health Consumer Index values Europe's health systems and the first group of indicators, what is it called? The real and the information of the patients. With regard to the introduction, or implementation of this integrated health information system, relevant sublegal acts are also bound. All this together is practically moving and is due to start from January 1, 2016, but 2017. The next member, i.e. the last member of the proposal for this law, says that the implementation of this system starts immediately the next day after the publication of the "Official Messenger". The Social Democratic Party of Serbia MP club will be pleased to support the three draft laws in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43174	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43175	Dear President, Mr. Loncar, Mr. Vekic, guests from the Ministry of Health, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, before the very beginning of my speech, I would like to thank my colleague Miri Petrovic, MPs of the PUPS, for the beautiful words she made to some of our joint co-operation that we have in Parliament, and I think we should do exactly that in the months and years that have been before Serbian democracy, especially parliamentary, because the ugly words, insult, demeaning one another, I think that in those last 20 and a few years of working Parliament have brought us here where we are. So, once again, thank you, and I hope that in the future we will work together on some good things that are in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Today we have several amendments to the members of the law – the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Health Administration. I would first like to draw attention to this change that regulates private sector work. I think this is the beginning of a fight against one unsolved substance in Serbia, where we have the possibility of corruption that is definitely occurring in some hospitals, some homes of health, where the right to work in the private sector is used, that abuse of the situation practically leads the patient to the private point of that doctor or director of the health institution, with an explanation – here are the waiting lists of large, with an explanation – our instruments are not sterile, with an explanation that there is a much better care and much better treatment option. So, this is the beginning of a solution to one substance that has been tried in Serbian health legislation in some years when Minister Tomica Milosavljevic was allowed to regulate, and then he banned the work in the private sector of state doctors, and then after that, I don't know how many months were allowed again and there was no legal good solution that would regulate it and in a transparent way he showed the citizens who work, how he works, and how the citizens have no harm from it. I believe that the final solution to this multi-year problem in Serbia is equalising state and private protection. It is difficult, especially in Serbia, given that we are a poor country, that every reform needs a little more money than it is for health care in Serbia. This is something that awaits us in the years to come, because the private sector is definitely developing, there is a private sector, the private and health sector has good appliances, good doctors working, and this private sector should have practical support and the state itself should be involved. He is involved, but he is involved so that when a patient goes into the private health care sector, he has to pay for that healthcare service, and on the other hand we pay for some health insurance that allows us under the Constitution to have the right to treatment. This is one issue that is strong and large, which requires one answer, because what bothers the citizens is when they come into contact with a health care institution, with healthcare professionals, when they get information – well, the doctor can't see you now, or the doctor can see you that day, or the waiting lists for cataract surgery are so much and so much, that you will be able to receive you in June 2016 or for hip surgery at the end of 2016, etc. On the other hand, you have a private sector that has it all, and then, when some health is threatened, when it comes to a sick child, each will take away from their mouths to practically enable their loved ones to have the opportunity to heal themselves. This attempt to limit the legal work of a doctor to 30% in the private sector, I personally welcome. I think that the DS parliamentary group has no objection to it being regulated legally, and that is one way to the final solution to this problem, to further health inspection to be notified of the work of the doctor. I think you also need to use it. What my colleague used to say before me is that practical work is normalized, the work of a doctor is seen, what is this doctor who works in a private hospital also doing in a state hospital. I have also personally witnessed through my professional practice that many doctors, who do business and private work, are avoiding determining that one norm that should be applied to them and that many patients, many diagnosiss, many operations are practically trying to shift to the private sector. Yes, a colleague said that's what Montenegro does. To make a plan for a doctor's work in a month or a year what it takes to do in your clinic, so if you do it at your clinic, you have the right to work in the afternoon, if you're not tired and if you've done 40 and some examinations during the day at the infirmary, or if you've done three surgeries or if you've done consultations on an oncology consulate, which lasted four to five hours, with patients, if you have so much power, certainly, that the state won't deny you work and private, but you have to do that, where your work book is, practically complete your obligations and to approach your patient with a lot of kindness, not by sharing your cards and favouring a certain private surgery, but that with a lot of conscience, as we have learned, at least I've learned from my teachers and love for medicine, the most manly profession and practical love of the patient, it should be... We need this all the time, and at this political level, to remind all of us that the role of a health profession, the role of a doctor and sisters right now cares about a patient, and that's the center of our health policy, and that's how it has to be. Health corruption is highly favored by the media, and there's a lot of talk about it. One way to regulate this corruption is to regulate the work of a doctor. What I would like to give you as a proposal, that is, on the Health and Family Committee, to comment on, that health inspection, officially as a MP, I have the right to ask, check all waiting lists in Serbia that are large, which have not been reduced in the past few years, to check whether the directors of these state clinics have their own private offices or their own private clinics, because I can't help thinking that some directors are successful, that they have reduced waiting lists, that they have successfully renovated or successfully reviewed the work on their establishment, that patients are satisfied with some clinics, and in some they are not. I think we should all look ourselves in the eye and say that patients can't stand and that we can't allow certain people who run certain clinics, because I can suspect, as a folk MP, as long as I have immunity, that's what I'm going to say, that some tenders even by some of the directors of health care institutions themselves may be sloppyly done to make them fail, and in order for their private clinic, their private practice to do and to have justification in front of a collective or in front of patients to say, well, we don't do that, let's focus it on this or that office. It is a kind of potential corruption that needs to be resolved, which practically changes the laws of the states, i.e. by this member of the law. We as a parliament are trying to introduce in some streams that, in my opinion, are normal. The second topic dealing with today's debate on amending the health profession law is the unification of clinical centres in Serbia. We in Serbia have five university clinical centres. So, from these clinical centres, we have additional clinical centres in Belgrade. The unification of these clinical centres and clinical hospital centres and putting under the authority of the state, the republic, in my opinion, as a worker of the Clinical Centre from Nis, makes sense, because the state has to unify the work of its most relevant institutions, to implement its policy at this territorial level and to have, despite the poor economic situation, the best doctors and to have the best equipment that would give our citizens a chance to treat in the process of treatment. I think that, as I mentioned, we are in the clinical centres of Novi Sad and Nis buried and some things that aren't ours, and that's one problem that exists since there's a clinical center in Nis and Novi Sad, which is that our primary health care homes in Novi Sad and Nis are rerouting patients that aren't from the tertiary domain, where we, as far as ORL clinic is concerned, are covered with some sore throats, nose inflammations, middle ear inflammations, which should be done by the city hospital, which should be doing primary health care and ORL speciality in the homes of health. We don't bring anyone back, but Novi Sad and Nis should have city hospitals, and that's my practically cry. I also mentioned it to Mr. Sutanovac, while he was Minister of the Army, Mr. Vukic, while he was Minister of the Army, Mr. Gasic now. In parliament there are stenographic notes where I have prayed to consider whether a military hospital from Novi Sad and Nis could be fully opened and to be the city hospitals of Nis and Novi Sad. The reasons are that the military wants to accept these patients and our citizens, that they are open, but, in my opinion, it's not open in the way that the city hospital should be, because it's being paid extra from the budget. If we're a poor country, we are, we're a small country. So, we should make all the resources that health care has available to citizens and realize that military hospitals are made for the former Yugoslavia's army that was significantly higher than the current Serbian Army, and in the military hospitals in Nis and Novi Sad, we have good machines and should make it available to the citizens of Serbia. So, as far as unification is concerned, it is very important that we have uniform treatment methods, that there is no need for someone from Novi Sad to be sent to Belgrade for additional treatment, for additional diagnostics. This is the goal of every leadership that has plans for some stronger reforms. It takes time. It's not normal, if you have a professor of otorinolaringology, for example, in Nis, that he doesn't know how to perform an operation, that he has to send his patient to Belgrade. There are opportunities when we're not equipped with the same equipment, but when the clinics of clinical centres in Nis, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac are the same, then it's a whole other topic, then you'll see if someone's doing their job well or not. This is a topic I've always found interesting. Now I have a chance to talk about it, as an MP, and that we have to have a unique apparatus, not to differ by machine, that there is something Belgrade has, and that Novi Sad does not have or that Kragujevac does not have, and that Nis has. We need to have all the same machines, have the same doctrine, as far as surgical techniques are concerned. With a lot of pride, I always say that I spent some two years in Zurich, where I had a scholarship from the Swiss government. I've met their surgical work. They also do the dissection of the door from Lucerne to Geneva, the same for abdominal surgery, the same for all operations, no matter if it's in the smaller or larger center. We, unfortunately, do different methods. Everyone says this one's smarter than the other. With us, diagnostic methods made in Nis or Novi Sad are not respected in Belgrade, so they are further worked. The analyses that are done in the private sector don't respect, we say they have no idea, so we'll do it again. We spend a lot of money. We are very poor, rather than some much richer countries, so the unification of clinical centres is good, as far as the state is concerned, because it now has the opportunity to implement that national policy, health policy, because when you have united clinical centres, then you have to uniquely equip them and have the same doctrine of treatment on them. As for the third amendment to the Health Administration Act, medical documentation, as regards the extension of the deadline, I personally think that electronic health books, the introduction of an information system, the practical records of our patients, diseases, diagnostic methods is a good thing. It is not good that the administration could not clear this legal deadline and that some electronic health books, which have been issued, could not be read, because these readers, which have been obtained in some clinics, could not be read. We're a little late for some new stuff here, but good. I hope that in the months that we come to master and that the people who work with these machines, who do factoring these examinations, will be able to be better equipped and dressed. Of course, and we talked about it in some previous sessions, so we need to have a clear record that the patient has his own electronic health records, that he has his own health book that will be valid everywhere in Serbia, which will be easy to read, and that will make it easier for both the patient and the insurance company, but we will make it easier, certainly, for RFZO to see clearly at the moment what is determined from the analysis, what could be saved, where it can be saved, what should be invested. So the introduction of this information programme in the health sector is good, but unfortunately it's been waiting a long time. I am a witness that is also talked about by Tomica Milosavljevic, the ministers after him talked about it, and I hope that in this term of this assembly parliament and this government we will end it, because it is something that forms a serious state. We talk a lot, and we didn't do what was good. So, here, I'm finishing my exposure with another finding. It's a subject that I feel responsible for opening it here as one question to you, to open up a number of humanitarian actions abroad on social networks and in public. Prof. Miljko Ristic spoke publicly two days ago. I think we should tell the citizens of Serbia, that Serbian citizens have the right to treatment in the state of Serbia and that all the diseases being treated in the state of Serbia, the state will allow free treatment. Some disease not being treated in Serbia, RFZO, has the means to send such a patient abroad, but you need to have a doctor's decision, a decision by a doctor who says the operation can't be done in Serbia, then the Fund will pay it and will practically transfer those funds to treatment abroad. It is important that citizens know who has the right to treatment, and it is important that they know that only when it is refused by RFZO that the fund that exists at the Ministry of Health is almost established here, just means that it is necessary for every humanitarian action to be welcomed by humanitarian actions, but I want to say that in many situations some abuses can occur and that it is important that the ministry, that the health sector, the Republic Fund, and the prosecution reacts quickly, to say in which situations can and in which our human citizens who are poor, but despite being one of the poorest, will separate from the mouth and support the treatment of someone abroad. I think this is a subject that requires both a clear answer and a forwarding ministry to say on certain topics, i.e. more health inspections to say - there's a basis here to support it or not. By doing so, we are practically protecting the citizens of Serbia from some potential fraud, but we are also protecting the health system of Serbia that we must strengthen, not as in some times before that even some ministers have been treated abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43176	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43177	Thank you. I think there's a lot more to be done and there's less to talk about, and there's nothing that's been done, here, I don't know which way we're already here, but we've already got an appointment, and I don't know until they change all those things that weren't good and what are the preconditions for getting rid of something and for something to be seen. Regarding what you've been commenting on, the private sector, the state sector, what we insist on, we're not making a reason, you know that we first asked the private sector to come out with their own ID card, because that's a condition that you know what someone has to do to include it in the system. Now, it's going to be a year before they're seriously late to bring in what's fundamental, where we've changed the law to be unique to everyone and to the state and to be private, and only under these conditions come out, what we're looking for for for state, we're looking for private, come out with those parameters that you have in private so we can see you, we can recognize you, and we know what we can count on with you, now that part of the job is on them. Here, not to tell you the percentages, but that's a small percentage of the ones that came. I'll tell you in particular, to this day, 1,300 privates only 400 of them came out with this data that we call a ID card, and everyone took it and said -- here we are, it's right for us to be recognized. What we're looking for, let's just make it transparent, so we don't have any problem. Here's what we do, we complain all the time that we can't just follow who's working and who's doing what. I think every one of us said, so we don't even know where he works anymore, or how much he works, or how much he makes, or anything? I think this is the first step, that we have the exact contracts where he works and how much he works, that he needs to know the inspection, that everyone has to know that. Tomorrow, if anything happens, let's see if that doctor had a contract in that office, whether it's covered legally or how it's going to be extremely transparent, because you can't work every day in the second office, on weekends in the fifth or I don't know where. I don't think anyone who wants good has anything against this. I don't know what the problem is that we all know and that the state knows who works? Next thing you know, I'm telling you, if you don't mind just say it right now. We'll go with a suggestion that all payments go into one account. No problem working at a state institution, doing a third of your time, you signed a contract with a private institution, but the state has the right to know how much you earn and you need to pay taxes and I don't see anything controversial that a private institution doesn't directly pay you, but they pay the state institution where you're being kept busy and it's a guarantee. You'll get your income, but you'll pay your taxes and we have exactly what you've earned in a month, in a year. I don't see how that should bother anyone, and the state has an insight into what reason, so the state needs to know how much it spends on health care, whether it's state, whether it's private. If you want to even it out, so we need to have an insight into how much real money it takes, because we now have no idea how much money is spent in private practices this afternoon and who's working there, and we can't figure out what reality is ours. What's the problem? Here, I'll tell you in advance, if you don't mind telling me right now. I think it needs to be unique, to be transparent and to know who, how much and where he makes, to go into one account, I say – so they know and to pay taxes to the state. That would be our next step and, of course, the most important thing for all of this is this information system. The information system, you know, should have been done long ago, couldn't have been finished. If you remember, the proposal was, or estimated, that information system should cost six million euros, we eventually recalculated that it could cost three million euros. We ended it for three million euros, but those who wanted six million euros to be, they were having a hard time dealing with it, they were complaining, appeal of appeal, appeal of appeal, and we were barely able to comply with the whole procedure of the commission, I don't know what it was and it ended for three million euros, which was supposed to be for six million euros. For this reason, we move from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2017, so that we can network everything and that it all exists. The system is running, I'll tell you, you already have the pilot projects that are in the largest health home in Nis. People are there, they're working. They work here in New Belgrade, they work more hospitals. It's binding, people have to go to training, and what I'm appealing to all people right now, gentlemen, this is binding, from the hospital health care home, don't answer when you're invited to come to training for this system. This system has to work. It won't be tolerated that you like not to come, you won't bother, you won't apply the system. That won't be tolerated, here, I'm telling you now. The calls are binding to work on it and that's what's going to get us kicked out and what's going to be seen in our health care and when you can schedule a review, and how many reviews have been done, and when we're going to have that system to see how much you've done in the state sector, so you went out this afternoon to work without any coercion, without any norms. We'll have transparent what you've done for that day in the state sector, and what you've done this afternoon in the private sector, because you're asking them to even it out, so let's even it out. Accept all systems that are transparent and show where you are and how long you've worked. I don't see any problem if we're trying to do it, if we don't want any fog, or if we don't know what we're doing. Here, it's unique, but out of 1,300, just 400, it's not up to us, so we can't give our ticket to a private hospital or private practice. This system has finally passed and that we have a few months to half a year to implement it, to live everywhere and be extremely transparent. He's the basis for all these things he does. The system exists in the countries of the region. He did those good things. It's an electronic recipe. You're here not to go to the doctor every day to change your prescription. You can extend the prescription for a year if you are a chronic patient. So, the electronic schedule, you have your appointment, you come in there, you can't get in, you can't say there wasn't a break, because it has to type in that he didn't take you in and come out right away. Let's not talk about the savings, the use of the material, the condition you have, how much the material is paid and so on. It's all shown here. These are things, of course, djj which is attached to it. It's all the things that go. I absolutely agree that Kragujevac, that Nis, Novi Sad should have a city hospital. We're working on it. We're not talking, but we're working to exploit military capacity for that. And not just for that, but for the palitative. We're looking for money and for the Karaburm military center to turn into a serious piece for the palitative part. We're not making a difference between civilian, military security and private. We don't want to, there's no reason. We're in such a situation that we can't afford it. All capacities must be exploited, although it is cheaper to train the hospital that was already intended for it, if there is less investment than to build a new one, of course we will go to it. We work, we don't talk until we find it, until we do it all. These problems, you said, the director is absolutely agreed to examine everything and insist, not that I'm in agreement, but I insist that we examine the waiting list. What's happening to us, my lords, so you know. There's a magnetic resonance in Uzic. The magnetic resonance has been broken seven times this year. The last time we gave four million dinars was to fix it. She got better, worked three days, broke again. Do they really think we're that crazy? So the magnetic in Uzica can't work, because then the privates will suffer. You've had the same arrests in that radiology, that's all. Does he really think someone's crazy that a modern machine like that should be broken down seven, eight times in a year and we don't know that you can always spoil everything? The state-of-the-art machine, you can damage it to the heating system, the helium, this one, that one. You'll always find a way to spoil it so it goes private. What's a state? What's he supposed to do? It means that we meet the wishes that we'll get it from Uzica every five days, it's broken again, now they're asking for 14 million dinars. Who can take it? Where is it in the world? That's impossible. That's absolutely impossible. You know what I told them last night? By Monday, magnetic resonance, I don't care how it works. I'm absolutely not interested. The state paid for all the magnetic resonances. In Uzice, she gave as much money as she gave for all the magnetic resonances in Serbia. I have no doubt that every day they can corrupt her and go private, if that's not their interest. What are we supposed to say? Okay, we're powerless, we can't do anything about it. We wrote to the Ministry of Health to grant it to us, so when it gives us, we will conduct the tender, and we announce that the magnetic will not work for another two months. Guys, what's this all about? And we all keep our mouths shut, and we all keep our mouths shut and say, "Okay, now we've moved to the ministry, so whether the ministry has money now, whether it's left this year, whether they should wait for the next one, so they'll have great legalists to question the tender, so they'll think about what's going to happen, so God doesn't let anyone complain again, so they won't work magnetically for three months. A message for all citizens – don't count on the magnetic for the next three months, go to the private, take what you say, from the mouth to give for the child, to give for this to do the magnetic resonance can't wait. And they all say, "Well, that's all right." And we say, which the ministry did not give money. No one says – seven times the ministry gives money. Do you understand? So these are some things that are systemic and that need to be solved. Of course, maybe it doesn't interest someone, maybe it suits someone, it's not a big deal, but people need to know. Maybe people have better solutions, maybe they've dealt with it better before. There's no problem. As far as humanitarian action is concerned, I'm ashamed to say anything. There, I'm ashamed to say anything. When you say something, we do, we build a budget fund, we have a Republican fund, you don't pass any of those institutions. So, you don't go past them, not talk to them, so you go out and say, you know, we went to RFZO, they turned us down, the first commission rejected us, we were rejected by the second commission, we applied to the budget fund, we went to the budget fund, so they all turned us down, and now we're forced to raise money. No, you're raising money without talking to anyone. No one. You know you don't have to, but you collect money and make money out of the state what you make. In this budget fund you've got enough money for another two years of dynamics as it goes now, budget, where we've all given out of here, state money. That's exactly what we've given for it, but no one's talking about it, it's starting the action, like we're human now. To say anything, they say, this one is against humanity, this one is against this, this one is against that. When you say something third, then they say - he put out the data. We have to decide what we want. We've been moaning, the front pages, this, that, that, we've made a fund. The fund's working well. He doesn't have any grudges. You don't have any grudges in the fund. Two systems of control. Every penny knows where it goes, every hospital that's been paid, who's been cured, who's been diagnosed, what's been done. There's only one regret left, and that's not enough. Let's go make a human action, let's say - this system sucks. Who did you address? Who did you ask? You're no one to talk about diagnosis. I don't know who needs it. I don't understand. I'm embarrassed. You never know what to do in the end with that money. No one washes what's left of it. If I asked, they would say, "What do you care, it's not state money, it's money collected from voluntary donors?" You can't ask anything, you can't say anything. It goes to some of its own time. I don't know where it's gonna lead. We ask that procedures be followed. When you don't follow procedure, it doesn't matter, let's move on to something else. Everyone knows what's behind it. It's a thing that has to be solved together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43178	The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43179	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, we have been in discussion for two hours about three draft laws proposed by the Ministry of Health. Most of them were affirmative discussions. I'm going to try to look at the bill's proposals from another angle and share a few concerns with you. I hope I get the right answers. I will start with the draft law amending the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. I will remind you that this law was adopted on 8.11.2014 and on all our announcements and warnings that a very short period of one year of implementation of a software tender, implementation and application of the law, the assembly majority was categorical, supported by the government's proposal and the ministry, passed the law and one year after that you came before the National Assembly again with the same bill of law, which explained that, says – the Health Documentation and Records Act in the areas of health has been established within 12 months of the date of entry into force of that law for the law to be passed. Since a public procurement procedure for an integrated health information system is being implemented during that period, which has not yet been completed because the complaints lodged cannot be made within the prescribed time limit for the implementation of the law. I don't respect all of this to the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health must respect the Public Procurement Act and come to the famous Public Procurement Act, which we have said is not good, it is necessary, but it must be much better and more efficient. You've always spoken, spoken, and you'll probably say it's good now. Here, you see how it's not good, that those who want to comply with the law can't actually spend the budget for a given year, but have to transfer them to another year. Under circumstances, now, as our people say, the hunchbacks fell out of the ministry because they respected the law. We have proposed as a parliamentary group that this deadline is not a year, but two years. Why? Well, because we have an obligation to implement it through health institutions in the Republic of Serbia after buying that information system, as the minister says, and we need to implement electronic medical records, or popularly called health records, we need to enter into the functioning of an electronic prescription. And what no one's going to say is that we have serious problems in the functioning of the central register, applications, logouts, insurance. The central register is not the perfect system and it has to be updated. I'm not from the field of electronics, but what I know and based on what I saw while I was working in the Republic Fund, that system needs to be done to make it much more efficient. So, our proposal is to extend this deadline to two years, so we don't come back in a year to discuss the same subject. There's no need. Accept the amendment. He's not malicious, he's well-intentioned. If you end up in a year, it's good, it's not a problem, but let's just say that it has a deadline, so that for a year we don't honor each other here something that doesn't depend on the Ministry of Health, but depends on those who came up with, wrote, and who don't want to change the Law on Public Procurement. The second law I want to say a few words about is the Law amending the Health Insurance Act. It is good that workers working abroad are extended until the end of their work abroad. It's thought here of a country where we have a health insurance contract. For example, it is Montenegro, Austria, Germany, Italy, I don't know if we have with Bulgaria, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are interstate contracts signed and they either go on direct payments by the state or go on debt beatings, i.e. to reciprocity in treatment, depending on what contract is where it's signed. That's not even the subject of today's debate. That's good, and it's good that it applies to family members. Our only objection is to Section 3 which says – Confirmation of the use of healthcare during private stay abroad under Article 64 of this Act is issued to the insured person for a period of up to 90 days. I think that period should be as long as it takes over health clearances for security depositors, that it should be six months, because there's no need to unnecessarily administer and that someone checks for three months, if they have the right to six months to verify the health book. So, we'll reconsider that proposal when we discuss the laws in particular. Where we disagree with you, the Parliamentary Group Boris Tadic – the Social Democratic Party – Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, is Article 96th paragraph 5, where you say the word "security" is replaced by the word "employer". There's been a lot of talk today about this member. It's a famous pregnancy disease, where even a fellow MP said it's not right for cumulative payouts of a woman's residual pregnancy benefits to be subsequently taxed by a solidarity tax. Here's the thing. I'll try to get the citizens of Serbia, since you here in the O.R. you all know what this is all about, explain what the subject is. So, when pregnancy is paid, according to the Health Insurance Act and the Health Insurance Act, pregnant women are paid 65% of their earnings, and the state took off an additional 35% a few years ago to get 100% during pregnancy, because a lot more needs pregnant women money, i.e. It's due to the baby and the specific condition it's in and that it's not just a disease. It's just fine, and this year the state has set aside over a billion and 300 million dinars for those positions. The basic problem arises at the time when a profit calculation is carried out for each month that is required by each employer to hand over the RFO to those who are on sick leave. That's what every employer does, and for this 35%, because the state is paying the RFO, and the RFZO has been forwarding that money to pregnant women so far. Then the RFO was obliged to do the bidding for that 35%. Even at the end of the year he was obliged to work the M4 form for that 35%. The fact is that the Republic Fund does not have the capacity to carry out the calculation, nor is that his job description. That, given the circumstances, since the state is co-financed by pregnancy, it has become part of the Republic Fund. Now, with this amendment of the law, he wants it removed, that it's done by an employer instead of the Republic Fund, because I'm saying that the Republic Fund has neither people nor capacities for that additional job. So, what do we get? Well, we're going to get that solidarity tax bill not to be controversial, but to be a rule. What's this about? employers who do not pay their personal incomes properly, who do not make a proper calculation, are the ones who are the cause of the pile of money paid to pregnant women and then collect a solidarity tax. The point is that pregnancy is not late, and our proposal we propose to the Ministry is that the employer makes a profit calculation, and the Fund pays the pregnant directly to the employer's reckoning. Then we won't have a stalemate, because this delay that occurred in the payment of maternity leave is not a stalemate that's tied to the Republic Fund, but is a stalemate that's tied to the employer. That's what we need here to solve, to suggest to the Ministry. I hope you'll accept the proposal that the bill works, as you suggest the employer does, and that the Republic Fund directly pays the parents for the bill. The Republic Fund, whether it paid the family or paid the employer, they're paying for it, so they're paying for it. Only giro numbers differ. Then we won't have a problem with pregnant women getting late maternity leave, because the state has given these 35% to help, and that help at the end when they get down and when they start paying off by the employer is that no help was ever there. So I ask you, when we discuss the amendments, to consider this proposal and to accept it, or any other solution that you give, if you have better than this proposal. So, the bottom line is that we pass a bill that guarantees pregnant women a monthly payment. Someone will say that under the law employers have an obligation to have a parallel jury account to pay off their sick. Well, you've had till now, so you've got a delay. Let's not hide behind the law, colleagues. Let's help pregnant women have each month's privileges for which we all agreed and voted when it was voted a few years ago. It's about this bill. I am now going back to what opened many polemics, which is the bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. There is our parliamentary group, as I said, Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party-Together for Serbia-Green Serbia disagrees with you, because there is also a political difference. What is being voted on and what you will vote on is the further centralisation of everything in Serbia. We strongly oppose this and our political programme and way of thinking goes towards decentralisation of Serbia. The bigger, the better. The reason, as I've heard, is why they're exempt from local self-government at the clinical hospital center, it's financing what belongs to the founder, and it's an investment liquid maintenance, repair and painting of buildings. That's no reason for me. It is a problem for local budgets, and it is not a topic and it is not the Ministry adequately where we would talk about the local budget, how they are being filled, how the local budget is being filled and how the republican budget is being filled. The theme is that by centralizing health care, we create a system that is rigid, slow and inflexible. The same applies to the functioning of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. So those who are related to health care and who live daily in health institutions know how difficult it is to change something, no matter how urgent and urgent it is. And it's not because someone doesn't want to change, it's because the system is so conceived, it's waiting for a decision, which isn't there in the next room of the man who can make that decision, it's waiting for either the Republic Fund Directorate or the Ministry is waiting. I'm saying, that doesn't mean they're malicious, but one ministry can't solve the problem of Serbian health right now. This must be brought down to lower levels, to regions, to the province of Vojvodina, so that it needs to strengthen competences and powers, in order for the system to be more flexible and faster. Not to give examples of how it may seem to someone from a medical facility who needs something urgent, and you run a republican fund that has money, but you can't make a decision until you get consent and if that consent doesn't arrive in three days, the fourth day of free has arrived. Well, that's why the system has to be more flexible, it has to be more developed, in terms of downsizing, in order for everything to be satisfied by the users, i.e. Insurance, i.e. patients of a health care facility. And that I think is the right way and a solution to health care in the Republic of Serbia. What caused a lot of controversy, i.e. A lot of stories, it's the supplemental work of health care professionals, it's reconciliation, respected citizens, with the Labour Act, with little specificities of activity, because here we're talking about direct budget users, and the Labour Act involves factories, companies and direct budget users. And what's the matter so far? Many times various thoughts, various policies and visions solved this problem, and now, by voting this proposal, which was proposed by the Ministry, i.e. you, respected fellow assembly majority, we will abolish what is likely and was the reason for the adoption of this proposal, that is, Article 199(2), which says - the supplemental work of Article 1 of this article can be carried out by an employer with whom a healthcare worker, a health associate, or another employed person, has completed a full-time contract, i.e. with another employer only provided that the work of a healthcare professional, a healthcare professional, or another working person outside of the regular working time for which the supplemental work contract is concluded does not affect the organisation of the work of individual parts of a healthcare institution or health institution in general. Let me translate. That meant that whoever wants to deal with his work outside of work hours of eight hours in an institution from a network plan, means public health, he should have the Director's consent to do it. By this law, this article is removed, this attitude is removed. And then we will say, yes, a health care worker, a health associate, as well as another person employed in a health institution, or private practice, another legal person who performs health work in accordance with the law (hereinafter: another person employed), who does full-time work, can carry out certain tasks from his profession with another employer outside of working hours, by concluding a contract on supplementary work with other employers for a total duration of up to one third full-time. Since I'm a dentist by vocality, I've consulted a lawyer because here you have both the uniques and the plurals in this article that you're about to adopt. This means that a health worker, an associate, but is primarily thought of by doctors and medical staff, can, without the consent of the director of a health care institution, establish a working relationship with a private person and with him, think of a legitimately registered private person who has a registered health institution or an office, that he can work, by informing his director, only by informing him that he has a private engagement, and not by one, but by more. Because it says, for a total duration of up to one-third of the working time. I hope that the health ministry lawyers, I do not expect the minister to respond – why is it that more private workers are allowed to work here? Then we have one piece that I think is really extra. It's unnecessary administration. We have here made an amendment to, say, one copy of the original contract on supplementary work, within 15 days of the day of completion of the contract, a health worker, a health associate, as well as another employee delivers to a health inspection to control the performance of supplementary work in the field of health. I apologize to the lawyers who wrote this. I am a private. So when a health inspector comes to me, he's looking for contracts on the work of all those who work in my office, and I'm obliged to show him. I don't see why a doctor would have to go further into a medical inspection and give them a job contract. I don't think it's an obligation and it's an unnecessary administration for that doctor who works in the private sector. If anyone needs to, it should be done by the owner of that office or the director of a clinical center or a health care institution where a healthcare professional has already contracted to prove that he is involved in additional work. But it is good that this work will be taxed. I absolutely agree with the way they're going to be paid, that's fine, but I don't think there's any need, if you're letting healthcare professionals do this, that I can, without the Director's consent, work privately with a private person, and if you're letting more private people work, I don't know how, but he's got a legal option, up to one-third of the working time, why do you burden him with carrying that contract? It's not his job. He doesn't own a company, he doesn't run a health care facility, so I don't think there's any need to do that. A few more words when I said, here, I have very little time. No, let's not open another topic. I hope to get an answer to this, Mr. Minister. Our vote will depend on accepting our amendments to vote day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43180	Thank you. Minister Zlatibor Loncar wants a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43181	I'll be brief. About the family, we've done everything here to make it easier for them, so they don't fill in two forms, so they don't wait for each other to form. That's the only reason, because we think we're gonna speed this up and have a regular payoff. What I want to inform you about the solidarity tax, I heard from the finance minister this morning. I think that already today or tomorrow if she piles up and it is, that it will be regulated not to, that today or tomorrow she will go to the government's conclusion, so we don't have to talk about it anymore, it will be regulated. So this is where we do everything to help the families do it. We don't get along politically. You think it's centralization. This decision to cross the clinical-patient centres, we've already explained, agreed with all the people, the employees, the city administration, the unions, everyone who insisted on doing this, because of your functioning. What you said, the arguments don't stand, that something faster is happening there, that it's not happening here. If we don't move on, they can only work on one private, not any more. So it's not interpreted. If we have to, we'll further explain it and put it on. So there's no problem here, just one private. We'll figure it out. It's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43182	The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43183	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, guests from the Ministry, distinguished fellow MPs, I am truly pleased that, after more than a successful exchange of views and dialogue on the relevant resolution committees on the law and on health protection and health insurance and on documentation and records, we have practically come to the moment when the law was held in the debate in principle in the National Assembly. What I think is necessary is that through our joint thinking, through constructive dialogue, through a common discussion, we must come up with a quality solution, also through the possible amendment of the law. However, what I can see is that this proposed law and the proposed solutions are, in fact, the result of one recognition of the problem, on the one hand, within existing legal solutions, but also one high-level consciousness, that a certain legal solution and legal provisions found in the current law are not good enough, or possibly bad. What is also a fact, is that my personal impression, therefore, and my view that all of us as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as potential patients, will benefit from these amendments to the law. When I talk about a proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act, I can conclude that the problem that is related to the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights with persons who are referring to work abroad is recognised. I think that this proposal was more than valid, first of all, because these persons in some earlier period, during the already applicable law, were forced to return to the country during one calendar year, renew a health card that allowed them to use health care, while applying this law, by adopting and applying this law, is practically a solution that when a person is sent to work abroad, a health card that is valid for all time abroad. I think that in this way repairs the quality of health care, i.e. adequate use of health care for these persons, and I will remind you of one of my previous sessions, that the essence of the patient is precisely at the heart of the health system, therefore, the patient is a cruel, beak thing within the health care system. As regards the same proposal for an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, there is a proposal that in the event of the right to cash compensation during temporary prevention of work due to diseases or complications related to maintenance of pregnancy. In fact, 35% of the base, therefore, the salary has so far been paid directly to RFZ, and 65%, therefore, has been paid to the employer. In this way, the sum of 35% of the compensation base will also be paid directly to the employer. I think that this is a rational solution, rationally for the reason that, firstly, I think there will be one better option and a greater possibility of controlling the payout of pregnant women, and I personally think that pregnant women of the vulnarab group are the most vulnerable parts, the most vulnerable parts of one system, and that is why I think the proposed solution is valid and I think that it will, first of all, improve the efficiency and speed of the payout, precisely for the practical control of it, allow one more effective control of the payout of pregnant women. What is also important is that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, I think there is something that is already expected. It is, in fact, that the founding rights and the management of clinical and hospital centres return to the Republic. Thus far, the clinical and hospital centres in which secondary and highly specialised tertiary health care is conducted are practically located before the city's authority, i.e. local self-government. I am a supporter of a modern attitude, that there is no solution to the problem, that there is no rise in the quality of health care without participation, not only of all layers of society, but of all levels of government. Personally, I think that with one joint work of all levels of government, of all layers of society, of every individual, of every citizen of this country, we can improve the quality of health care. But I also believe that the management of health care facilities by the city, or local self-government, is not good for many reasons. First, because the Health Protection Act itself has already defined that health institutions providing primary health care have local self-governments. Therefore, those health institutions providing secondary and therapeutic health care are under the authority of the Republic. That's right, except in the case of clinical-patient centres. The second, no less significant reason is because it personally believes that the examination and understanding of the problem, which is currently at the level of clinical and hospital centres and these institutions, is far better, more adequate and more complete by the Ministry and the Republic, than this is the case by local self-government. The third reason is that there is a practical legal basis for capital investment, and I would not underestimate this reason. Also, this legislative proposal regulates this institution of complementary work. I think the essence of this proposal is the introduction into the legal framework, the introduction into the tax system, which is very important, which is what the minister was talking about. I absolutely agree with the proposal that a health worker or a health associate, who has full-time at the appropriate health care facility, can work up to 30%, therefore, with a solution that is in accordance with the Labour Act, which also interprets and defines this problem and not only think it is good, but I think it is only possible. So in this proposal, about the supplemental work, I wouldn't really discuss it anymore. As regards the amendment of the Law on Health Documentation and Records in the field of health, it primarily refers to the extension of deadlines for the adoption of the rules for the implementation of the law. The government's explanation here says that it is necessary for a public procurement procedure for a common integrated information health system to postpone this deadline. I believe that without the introduction of a single information system, it would really not be good to lay down regulations for the implementation of the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health, for several reasons. The essential thing, which is about this very law, is that I really show respect for getting the information system, not directly, but through public procurement, first. Second, it is necessary to respect the legal deadlines in that public procurement. This is something that has primate in relation to any deadlines for the adoption of certain acts, therefore, regulations, regulations, which will determine the implementation of the Health Documentation and Records Act. So, I think the legality is number one and something that we all have to respect together, so I really respect this proposal. What the conclusion as my presentation can say on my own behalf, therefore, is that I am more than satisfied with the proposed amendments to the law, but I am also proud of the presentation of all of my fellow advances on the Committees, who, by their constructive discussions, have, first and foremost, contributed to making one quality step and one very significant progress and progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43184	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43185	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, the health care of the population is one of the fundamental areas in the regulation of a single country concerning the entire population. According to health care and health insurance alone, we know whether and to what extent the state is democratic, health and social responsibility, modern, towards citizens, especially sensitive parts of the population. The system laws that define these issues are the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act that we are discussing today, and if we know that the first ones are governed by the general interest, the social care, the health care organisation, the rights and obligations of our patients and the treatment of our citizens abroad, but also the treatment of foreigners here in our country, then we know how important it is. We can see by definition that the state must be evenly, according to needs, of course and according to the possibilities of developing all levels of health care, primary, secondary and territorial, and this level is the highest, most sophisticated and humane and technological. Our country, or Yugoslavia where we lived, had a very developed system of health care, free, available to all citizens, whether in the city or in the village, in the factory and at school. We have unfortunately experienced its collapse and poverty, and the brutal privatisation of state and social capital has brought down a good health care system. Today, the responsible policy in this area needs to use and connect all resources, which the ministry does, and improve them. One such measure is to put it under direct control, and it is precisely all of the clinical centres that are the founder of local self-government, i.e. the city, which, as we have seen from previous years, has not been able, capacity, to develop these centres in accordance with the needs of citizens and modern medicine. In order to make maximum use of these resources and improve this, we consider it necessary. By raising clinical and hospital centres to a republican level, the Ministry is able to invest both new and larger funds, the equipment of this centre, elects and appoints the directors of the total and their bodies, but then directly influences their organisation, activity and business. All of this we can only welcome, support, vote for these changes beyond that to expect that tomorrow, these clinical and hospital centres are more developed, better equipped, humanised and improved in favour of all of us. But what is important, and now it remains out of focus, I believe that local self-government and health homes and pharmacies are in them. At the very Health Committee, we heard that on average, local communities say about 0.8% of their budget for health institutions that are founders and such small funds, with even less investment in the impoverished environments, have made health homes quite derelict, with reduced capacities, almost closed institutions, and also in poor condition all pharmacies, which are located in small centres. The danger is that all of them are increasingly closed, due to their unsustainability to the point of financing and economic viability. That's why I think the future step in the ministry's work is to put the accent on the primary level of health care. The health ministry must work together with local self-government to target more significant resources towards the primary level of health care. This is, I think, very important, if we know that the form of protection is closest to the population that has to provide the first and simplest level of diagnostics and treatment, but more importantly to develop all forms of prevention. The development of science, new knowledge, informed systems, wider knowledge of the importance of healthy lifestyle and nutrition, hygiene, harmful facts and various substances, the importance of preserving a healthy environment is important to be directly present and available to all citizens. In order to save money, treatment is needed, but we need to invest more significantly in preventing all types of early examinations, counselling centres, systematic annual reviews, but also the development of annual specialist campaigns, lung examinations, mammography and systematic child examinations, etc. About this, I'm only going to make one example and an illustration. While the health minister was Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, one of the measures that was taken were regular systematic mammography reviews. I was personally in a position to be offered such an examination at the health home. However, it happened that the health care home gave me notice that only after three months would I receive information about this review, that unfortunately it did not happen within a year. This is one detail that suggests that citizens lose, or all of us lose confidence in our health care, which I don't think is a problem to correct, and that it is very necessary to make in fact health homes respectable institutions in which we are going to address each other with confidence and very, very quickly get diagnostic results. Why is this important? Because as a nation, we're older, sicker, poorer, and finally all of us are less. Every year in Serbia, a city dies, but no new city is born. Every year, a city has moved out of Serbia, and doctors, engineers, professors, scientists, talented students leave. Here, in this case, the question arises as to what is the Serbian population today, how will be tomorrow, who is treating us tomorrow, and who will treat us tomorrow, which is why, at least it seems to me, the task of the Ministry of Health to project the development of the health care system, activate and connect all possible resources and capacities, material and human to develop them, to receive staff and train young doctors, enabling them both regular and complementary work, as already suggested to obtain and renew licences in the best possible way and in favour of the very level of health care, the knowledge that is being applied, or this service that we as citizens are getting. In this way, the ministry will establish a healthier health system important and in line with the request of your president, our president, that our work today must create a stable foundation for organised European Serbia. By the energy you have, by the energy and entrepreneurship that this Ministry of Health has today, you are at the level that you can respond to that answer and challenge, and thus you will ensure that in this very time, this Ministry of Health, or the whole of health, is best founded in the sense that citizens have confidence in it. Serbia's elite was created two centuries ago and worked for a new, modern, newly freed state of Serbia, and from that time we have Dosite, Vuk, Nikola Tesla, Milutin Milankovic, Mihajla Pupina. Today again, these generations, or all of us, are able to re-founded Serbia's state with its best traditional but modern values. I'm going to look back on this set of laws on the health insurance bill on women's insurance related to the maintenance of pregnancy. In fact, as we have heard in the future, women will receive the total salary from the employer, regardless of where these sources are from, whether from the PIO direct fund, or from the Republic budget, because, as proposed, the PIO Fund will directly pay the employer this other small part. In this way, the aim is to overcome the payout problems in order not to meet double forms, double paperwork and in general delays in the process. But, as far as I understand it, it's imagined that employers are paying women 100% of their earnings, but here the question of payment and dynamics of the PIO Fund on the first, or second basis, because the budget funds have been late for up to two, three months, so we even had, and I'm glad to hear that this problem is going to be talked about by the public, which women have been talking about having a problem paying and a solid tax on a part that is practically untaxable. But there may be part of the obligation here with the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Business, to regulate such a legal system that employers must not afford to be late for the payout of workers, which we have so far had the case, because let's not forget, the time in which we live today is capitalism. The capitalist, the private owner in our current practice, had this problem with paying off profits which in the coming period, I hope in building modern European Serbia in line with the accession negotiations we have, this problem, therefore, must be solved. Will the employer pay for the compensation in general, regardless of the time and when he received funds from the state? It may be further possible to make sure that, possibly by some sublaw act, or by some other act of the ministry, this issue is referred to employers. Anyway, it's a good idea. It is important that regular, timely, and full compensation be provided in these conditions and during the maintenance of pregnancy. To the soul, perhaps the Ministry, and who else, if not the Ministry of Health, could also propose some new, even small, stimulating measures that would really help a woman, a mother to encourage birth. It's not just cosmetics, it's encouragement, it's not pushing, it can't be a solution, it can't be the right way, but encourage something that you can base and root, that you can do, I think this Ministry can do, and it would really be a big demographic venture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43186	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. I'm sorry, Mr. Djurishic. You signed up, so I called you out of the blue, but it's not your turn. I'm sorry. The People's Messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Marijan Risticevic be prepared, and then you are Mr. Djurisic. Here you go, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43187	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill amending the Health Insurance Act is a real cause, Minister Loncar, I think an excellent cause for discussion of reforms in the health sector. Minister Loncar, the first question I am telling you here today is, why is there no reform in the health sector? In the opening letter, not one word was about reforms in the health sector. For example, I listened to Professor Djurovic, who spoke here, not a word about reforms in the health sector. I don't know, Mr. Djurovic, is Professor Arne still in Belgrade, or is he away? So, not a single word, I think of one of the most important issues for a political community. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Theme. Minister Loncar, if he has no idea how to reduce the fears of inability to treat with citizens, our Republic, Mr Martinovic, we have this idea... (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Theme. ) Mr Martinovic, the debate is on the bill on amendments to the Health Insurance Act. I'm talking about the subject, gentlemen. Minister Loncar, if you have no idea of reforming this sector, we have an idea, take it freely. Our idea is settled, and here is Mr. Martinovic to hear, in two words, the Beverly model. We will repeat that, gentlemen, from session to session, when Minister Loncar is here, especially when we are discussing a bill that directly concerns this idea of ours. Minister Lonchart. If that's not the case, you tell me. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: You need a little more to the left.) ) I have consulted, esteemed gentlemen, and with doctors from the Health Council, and Mr. Martinovic is obviously not, but as a lawyer here he throws here now and Mr. Giric and Mr. Laketic, I see, I don't know what it is, dear gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43188	Please, Mr Pavicevic, do not address the MPs directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43189	I'm telling you, I'm telling you, they're getting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43190	I'm begging you. Well, because you address them directly, that's why they earn. Please speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43191	Here, here, on the law, the Beverly model, Mr. Lonchart, what does it mean? This is where we agreed, that with our citizens the inability, the fear of inability to treat, is enormous. Almost, so let's say everything present. Well, should we keep that state, respected gentlemen or as bearers of responsible public functions, to influence that state to change? It is our idea, that there is not one person, not a single person, in our republic, who will have such fear, and for example, Minister Loncar, we would have provided every man here in the Parliament, from the Government, you are a member of the government, and that no person will be, whether or not a contribution has been paid, whether he is employed or not, who will not have free primary health care. From the budget to fund it directly, Mr. Lonchart. Is that a problem? If it's a problem, why is it a problem? We don't think it's a problem. Secondly, we have submitted three amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. Minister Loncar, they've given some 12-month deadlines. These deadlines, gentlemen, are not respected and are now proposed to extend the unrespected deadline by another 12 months. Two things are important, gentlemen. If the deadline is not respected, the minister responsible for this area, he had to tell us first in the opening statement this morning why the deadline was not respected. Who's responsible? Is the minister responsible? If someone else is responsible, who's the one that's taking that shift? It's not enough, I mean, just to say it, but some shifts have to fall for irresponsible action, gentlemen. If someone gave a deadline, and he didn't plan well, he didn't predict well, and he's responsible because he didn't predict well, because he didn't plan well. Mr. Lonchar, ethic of responsibility. When word is given, that word in politics must be respected, otherwise we have no responsibility here. We have tabled ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry, Minister Loncar, a total of seven amendments to these three draft laws. My expectation is also based on the evaluation of our efforts to improve the bill's proposals in this National Assembly, Mr. Loncar, to accept all seven amendments and to in some way suggest that you are aware of your responsibilities for an inactive, respected Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43192	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43193	Just to get used to my ears from this noise a little bit... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You were shouting a little bit. And for that? That's the answer to that, okay. Now, we have to, since you're supposed to have good consultants and there's no way to get to the point, but it doesn't matter, reform. I don't know how you do this, you can call these things whatever you want, this is all part of one reform, and since you're already, here's to let you know. In order for some law to do reform, it takes a lot of things to agree. One of the things is that we get the permits of the European Commission for the laws we want to do. Here, I say quite nicely that you mentioned, we got the consent of the European Commission a few days ago for three roof laws, which is the Transfusion Act, the Law on Out-of-body Insemination, the Law on Public Health and Infectious Diseases. It was a prerequisite for them to do this to me. There is a public debate going on and these are the things that are important and in the first quarter of next year it will be in the Assembly and hopefully if we are satisfied, it will be adopted. The second thing, we have laws for the second quarter, health care, health insurance and medical supplies and I've said it twice, but I'll say it the third time, we broke this deadline for reasons of public procurement that we had to comply with by law. And I explained. The problem was that the tender wasn't on six million. If he'd been at six million, he'd have finished it real quick. He was double the size of three million. We had a complaint against the appeal, so it's over and it's in progress, so that's only when you're advised to pay attention to facts and the truth. ............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43194	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43195	I thank the chairman. The minister explained what the previous speaker made remarks, however, the chairman, I warn you, is a violation of Article 106, it is a agenda. So on the agenda of this set of three laws, we have the law, or amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act, and now we talk, this is not on the agenda of the new Health Insurance Act and the models proposed by the gentleman who spoke before the minister, when it's on the agenda we'll talk about it. Now let me get back to this. This is reform law and it regulates this part of the story of health insurance, and it concerns insurance workers who go to temporary work and, of course, concerns the most important categories, complications of pregnancy and people who are sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43196	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Ninoslav Giric: No. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43197	Thank you. Mr. Minister, these three laws that we are discussing today are the image and opportunity of your work in more than a year and a half of your term of office. This is the third time you have brought to the Assembly a proposal to amend and supplement the Health and Health Insurance Act. So, just changing and supplementing the law on two three members. So much for reform. The only law you've been defending here for a year and a half is the Health Documentation Act. And there you praised that law as it would lead to numerous savings, how it would raise the quality of work, raise the quality of work and all that, to come here today and say – sorry, a year ago, that deadline that I set for myself here from a year and two months ago cannot be fulfilled, we need another year. The only explanation you gave us is – you know, the Law on Public Procurement is no good. Not good, but it was adopted by this congregation majority as the best law in the world to eradicate corruption, which will speed up all procedures, honey and milk will flow. Where is it now? You're guilty of the Public Procurement Act, that's what you wrote in your explanation, that's what you said here at the beginning of this debate. Then you said we'd pay three million instead of six. Great. Is he gonna do it for three million? I doubt it. There's a problem. There's a problem, your Minister, at that place of the ministry, not that you're complaining and that you're coming here to the Assembly to ask for an extension of the deadline that you've set for yourself. It wasn't someone else who did it. You said here on November 4th last year – we'll finish this job so it can start with the electronic health books on January 1st 2016. Now you're looking for another year. Why should we trust you? We don't have a single reason. You didn't convince us in this debate that you would do it in the next year. The next law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, two things change there, we've heard that many times, these arguments. The supplemental work is now regulated in a slightly different way. First, let us read what is in the law – it is possible outside of working hours by concluding a contract on supplementary work with other employers. So, employers, plural. If it's a mistake, you fix it. I read what it says. You are here, as it says, predicting that additional work can be done in several places. You say you'll make it right. We'll see, there'll be amendments in two, three days, I don't know when, so we'll see what happens eventually. But why is there even additional work in Serbia? Why does it exist? Because health workers can't, when they're doing their part-time job with a full-time employer, they can't make decent money. Why do they spend another two, three hours a day working somewhere else? Because they can't make money there, because the government cut their salaries 10%, because years ago, the health system collapses. I'm talking about it, and we talked about when there was a budget debate and on other occasions, how doctors ask the Chamber to confirm that they can leave the country, and your answer is that this number is growing every year, a thousand and something last year, in this year we'll see what that number is going to be, but it's not going to be smaller, I'm sure. You say – how many are left in the end, that is your answer. I'm sure he's gone, if he's looking for a thousand last year, and he asked for 250 in 2012, so many more to go. Probably doesn't go all thousand, but there's more. You nod, I know you don't. I was talking about my friend who, when you were here the last time, went to Germany for the first time, the doctor of medical science, first went away, from the new year he got a job and left permanently, the doctor of medical science, because he doesn't want to play here dance, do a little private, do a little work like this, do a little work like that, hide from the inspection or don't hide. What did you force people in health care to do? Instead of seeing how you'll allow them to work decently, that in eight hours they're making money so they can live decently, that's not here. You've been yelling at me about how someone's spoiling the magnet in Uzic. So, who's working on that private magnet? Someone who works extra, probably. Who's working? It's just that extra work is something where people see space for corruption. How many stories have you heard, the doctor tells you – you come to my office this afternoon, and we'll finish? They've been talking for years. That didn't happen in this term, but you won't stop anything from happening. There's no deal with corruption in these bill proposals, absolutely nothing. Furthermore, in this law, centralization, you say – we all agreed, everyone accepts that management, or that the founder of the clinical and hospital centres becomes the Republic instead of the city. Okay, I'm principled against it. I believe that the state of Serbia is too centralised and that decentralisation should be allowed in every place. But what's completely frantic to me? In the light of the law, you said so too, it says – it is foreseen by the 2016 budget for capital investment and equipment worth 150 million dinars. So 150 million dinars for four clinics in Belgrade, which are now being transferred to the Republic. What are you going to do for 150 million dinars, excuse me, to invest capitally or to equip? That's a funny number. I'm interested, Minister, are you going to sit in the government in 2016 to make a decision to invest 150m euros in something called a national stadium? You, as Minister of Health, will you vote 150m euros in government, 122 times more money to invest in a national stadium instead of equipment and capital investment in the clinic? It's an amazing piece of information, that you think you're going to do something capital with 150 million dinars. I can't find the words without them sound insulting to that amount. Did the city invest less? If so, it is a shame for Belgrade and for those who lead it, shame. If so, then perhaps it is the only good thing that the Republic will take over, because if those incompetent leaders of Belgrade could not find more money, shame, shame for them. The last law is the Health Insurance Act. We've heard big stories here about how it's going to be better for women who are pregnant if they have any problems with pregnancy or even get sick, because now they're going to have fewer administrations, because that part of the 35% of the money that was being paid directly to them will be paid to the employer through the budget and how it's helping them. It wasn't exactly going to solve the demographic birth problem in Serbia, but there was a story about it. Now I'm asking you, we have a situation that because employers, so the ministry says they didn't transfer, they didn't pay women on maternity leave on a regular basis, but they were late, this situation happened with a solid tax, that they were being charged a solid tax, that the state was being charged. You just said-- I heard from the minister this morning, we'll sort it out. Well, there's been a problem for over a year. Was it supposed to be in the paper for three, four days for you to react? There was this situation, a year ago they started to come up with these tax solutions. The citizen's protector reacted. Nothing was enough for you, but now a few days in the paper, and you just said we'll figure it out. I doubt it, to be honest. When it disappears from the news page, it will disappear and your desire to solve it, because that's how this government reacts. So, only if you get a little pressurised by someone in public. Here we are waiting to see what happens to your colleague, Gasic. He said the prime minister ten days ago that he didn't belong in the government. No resignations, no resolutions, nothing. He's waiting to forget. We won't forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43198	I'm asking you to get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43199	We'll remind you, too. And you listen, Chairman, don't talk on the phone, so you'll hear that I'm talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43200	And how do I speak on the phone, Mr. Djurish?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43201	You talk on the phone all the time. So, I expect you, Minister, to come here, here, have now announced some laws, roof laws, that you will bring here into procedure. In two years your score is one whole law, three times after the changes of two laws, and that's your result of the ministry. And the change of that one whole law that you've passed, with an explanation that we're not good with the Public Procurement Act, you know, someone's complaining. You can't solve a solid tax for more than a year. Now you assure us here that everything will be fine. The doctors leave and you nod your head – no, it's not true. It's true. It's true, Minister. And it's always someone else's fault. The majority of four years run Serbia, four years. I don't know where the end is to say someone else is to blame. Here you like to say – don't use health care for politics. That sounds nice, but let's act responsible here when we talk about health care and see what you've done or haven't done. I expect you to look at our amendments. We find these laws, as proposed, totally unacceptable both because of what is written in the law and because of what you said in the principle debate, by rejecting any responsibility for what has not been done or for what has been wrongly done. I call on you, Minister, not only to think in the future about what it looks like on the front page of the daily newspaper, but to have a little further look at the future how this health system, which is not right, we will all agree on it in Serbia, to fix it. If your only answer is – which is not you, as you are, I am absolutely not interested in this kind of debate, because it does not lead us anywhere, anywhere. We can spend time on this, but nothing better will be, people will not be treated better, we won't have more doctors and health workers in Serbia, but less and I think what you've been doing for this year and nine months, eight, how much, absolutely doesn't deserve a transitional grade, as well as these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43202	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43203	Mr. Chairman, except that the MP, Article 107, Mr. Djurisic insulted you by talking on the phone all the time and not following him, and there is a public service and transfer, so you can see what anyone in this room is doing. I think the other thing that you hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you should have interrupted it, is that the effect of the minister is measured by the number of laws adopted in the National Assembly, the effect of the minister is measured by what... (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: is he replicating to me? )......................................................................................................... The effect of the minister, I explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43204	Mr. Djurishic, don't throw it away. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43205	... It is also measured by the fact that there is no new Kamenica and spent 18, plus 15m euros, not yet completed, and everything under the leadership of Bojan Pajtic and DS. The effect of the minister is such... What does this have to do with my discussion? )......................................................................................................... Which doesn't have an affair vaccine, like it was...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43206	Mr. Djurishic, don't throw it away. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Stop him if you dare. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43207	... The minister's effect is like that, no matter how much he throws...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43208	I don't fulfill your wishes here, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43209	... I will be louder, which the minister was not treated abroad, but in a country he believes in the health system. It's all an effect. If you think this effect is more important, affairs, embezzlements, a poor health system that you have complemented in the way that there are a number of legislative proposals in the Assembly, then you are wrong, but this government, the Minister of Health, these affairs are not followed, and they will never follow it, and before anyone in this room directs criticism to the Minister of Health and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, must first give a response to Kamenica, to the vaccines, to the unique IT sector for which money has been spent, and yet...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43210	Mr Babić, since I have heard your remarks that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, I believe I have not violated the Rules of Procedure and have tried to warn Mr Djurisic not to speak about the agenda, but you can see for yourself how Mr Djurisic responded. Do you think the Assembly should declare itself in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43211	The Chair, the violation of the Rules of Procedure - Article 103, which speaks of how an MP may ordinarily point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. So here he became a manipulative that the MPs of the majority, when they did not like some discussion, reported by the Rules of Procedure, said - a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then said - the Assembly did not have to declare itself and then directly abuse the Rules of Procedure as defined by Rule 103 as it was said about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or the right to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, replicating the one who spoke before. Every time you're doing it, it's like you're doing it all the time. Every time and, of course, always maximum two minutes. The maximum of two minutes, which you make impossible for me and my colleagues, rather than for you, when you think we've said enough, you interrupt us. I, the chairman, warn you that this Rules of Procedure applies to all of you and to all MPs. He does not recognise MPs who support the government and MPs of the opposition. If you want to do that job, you have to learn it first. Every time you don't act in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, I'll answer and talk about how you hurt him. I will not abuse him, and replicate him, and answer to what the previous speaker said, and that has nothing to do with pointing to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but with a replica of my exposure, which he has no right to and cannot wait, to be patient to tell me. I sometimes, by respecting this Rules of Procedure, sit here for ten hours so I can tell someone something within the time I have in my Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43212	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43213	You tolerate every time someone lifts up and says it's an insult to dignity because someone before him discussed how he discussed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43214	Time, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43215	There was no offense there, and this was a clear abuse of the Rules of Procedure that you were supposed to punish by seizing two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43216	Mr. Djurisic, you say you have no right, and you spoke for two minutes and 20 seconds, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure takes two minutes. Also, Mr. Djurisic, I am pleased that you have finally decided not to abuse the Rules of Procedure, because I can prove to you that you are many times in this assembly in the same way as you think Mr. Babic, you did, reported to the Rules of Procedure, and then replicated. You've broken the Rules of Procedure so many times in your statement that I've had to listen to Mr. Babic for the rest of my life. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, of course.) I thank you. The word has Minister Zlatibor Lončar at your exhibition, and then Mr Branko Djurovic at Mr Pavicevic's exhibition. You have a two-minute line, but before that, the minister has the advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43217	I absolutely have an understanding for you and that's perfectly fine, and that's perfectly normal, because you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not, you're not. You didn't say one thing you did, I didn't hear. Maybe I didn't hear it right, I don't know. You're telling a story that's not founded, it's not on the fact, it's not on anything. Okay, you're okay with that story and that's fine. Again I tell you there are citizens, there are patients and there are health employees who see it, who know it. Over 2,000 specializations, 1,000 staff doctors, nurses. So, everything that you've blocked that didn't work out and that's why we came into this situation. Eighty ambulances. With your car, you remember what happened, paid for, no car, no money. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Which one? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43218	Please, Mr. Djurishich, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43219	Gamma knife, IT passed, changed the Public Procurement Act, gamma knife already over 50, 60, 70 patients we paid for earlier. The budget fund for children for rare diseases works without any objections. There's also Cuban vaccines. The equipment is restored, done, opened. It started cardiosurgery, it's done in Nis, I don't know what reason it was. The day-to-day neurosurgery hospital opened the other day, here's only one piece, but I haven't heard any results from you. That's why I understand you. I don't have any problem talking, but I'd like you to say one fact, one result that's been done in the past, unfortunately this is all going for people of a known reason, when you're destroying something over a decade, it's not easy to do. But people see it's working and it's gonna get better and they feel it. But I can't stop you from telling people it's worse. We were the last in Europe, first, we couldn't even qualify to be on the scale, we climbed three places. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It is not true. That's not true? So they lie from the EU, from this index 100%, if it's not true, then they lie and people need to know, that you say they know. (Marko Djurisic, from place: Three new countries. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43220	Please, Mr. Djurishic, listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43221	Now there's going to be a new result, so it's official. So it's not mine or anything... (Marko Djurisic, from place: Three new countries. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43222	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, it's hard to talk when Mr. Djurisic keeps throwing away. It's not worth it, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43223	The word has a folk MP Dr Branko Djurovic, a replica of Mr Pavic's presentation. Here you go, Mr. Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43224	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister of Health, representatives of the Ministry of Health, respected colleagues and colleagues, asked me a question here, and where is Mr. Anre Bjornberg. Who's Mr. Arne Bjornberg? Two thousand the fourth year, the European Commission launched a project called the "European Health Consumer Index" or "European Health Consumer Index". This project, whose executive director is Mr. Arne Bjornberg, started its implementation next year, and is worth 35 European countries' health systems from 2005 to this last year. What's it worth? Based on state public statistics, based on surveys among the patients of all these European countries, and the third source on which European countries are being graduated is an independent survey by an firm called "Health consumer Powerhouse", a private firm based in Sweden. The president of this private company is Johan Herkvist. What the health minister said earlier in 2013 on the ranking list, the Republic of Serbia is the 35th last. Did we hide something? We didn't. Are we going to reform? We're on our way. This year we are no longer the last, the three countries are below us, these are official statistics and official information. Where's Mr. Arne Bjornberg? He was there, he helped, he guided us. If Mr. Chairman allows, just one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43225	Finish your sentence, please. Time's up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43226	Regarding humanitarian actions, several days ago on the front pages of a daily newspaper, a neurosurgery patient who was operated at my home health facility, at the Neurosurgery Clinic of the Clinical Center of Serbia appears. An operation has been done, we've received a pathological report and everything medical postulates can do about this patient or here or in any other country of Europe or the world are done. But besides that, we had on the front page of the daily newspaper a few days ago a request to collect money aid through Facebook was collected a certain quantity of these funds to send the patient to another country. I owe it to a neurosurgery clinic in the Serbian Clinical Center and my name to say...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43227	Mr. Djurovic, you must complete the exhibition. What you've exceeded will be taken away from your time by an authorized parliamentary group. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43228	I forgot to say one important piece of information, one important fact. At the time of the DS and Belgrade City's leadership, more than 50 million dinars have never been allocated annually to all clinical hospitals.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43229	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. The word is Dr Milan Latkovic. Let the MP Jovana Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43230	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister with Sardniks, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the health of the people represents the general social interest and the most important resource for the development of society. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry, the Ministry of Health, are making a significant contribution to making this general social interest more successful. The proposed amendments and additions of the Health Protection Act in a more elastic and rational way are regulated by several legal issues, which are the transfer of the founding rights of clinical centres from the city to the Republic, and in a more comprehensive way, the issue of specialisation of foreign citizens who have graduated from the university of health professions, which do not carry out health work in the Republic of Serbia, is regulated by the issue of licensing of health associates and, finally, in a new more flexible and operational manner, the institution of supplementary work in health care. Amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act shall be subject to the takeover of founding rights by the Republic over clinical hospital centres whose founders were cities. What's the big deal? It is important that this solution creates a legal basis and an obligation to invest capital in facilities and high-medical equipment by the Republic. The proposal for amending the law sets out the financial obligation to provide in the Republic's budget for these purposes in 2016 the funds of 150 million dinars. These are significant funds that will improve and improve the conditions and level of health care provision in these health institutions. The proposed amendments and additions to the law also determine that in clinical hospital centres, management bodies and management bodies, these are management and supervisory committees, the director and his deputy appoints and resolves the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Given the need and need of further professional, scientific and technical technological development, clinical hospital centres, the proposed solutions represent health institutions at the same level as the clinic institutes. By amending Article 185. The health care law regulates the issues already mentioned specialisation of foreign citizens. They have graduated from the university of health professions, but are not in a position to perform specialization in their republic. In order to allow this possibility for these specialists to come forward, it is necessary to make changes to the solution so far that has been irrational and I think that this will now help to make it much simpler to implement this need to perfect young forces from our environment. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law exclude the issue of these specialisations from the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and a more comprehensive solution is established, so that the issue is placed in the jurisdiction of the health ministry of the country in which the stranger performs health care. This country approves a foreigner of specialization and narrow specialisation and directs the candidate to enrol in the relevant university of health professions in our Republic. In this regard, the conditions, the way and procedure of enrolment are governed by the university in the mutual agreement. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the licensing of health associates has not been legally regulated in the current law. In fact, the Law on the chambers of health workers does not address the issue of health associates. This bill regulates this issue and provides that the issue, renewal and withdrawal of the licence shall be carried out by a competent chamber, i.e. professional associations belonging to health associates by their profession. Also, on the issued, renewed and withdrawn licence, the decision shall be made by the Director of the Competent Chamber. The amendment of Article 199 regulates the performance of supplementary work in health care. In this respect, it is possible for a healthcare professional, as well as for other healthcare workers and private practice, who are doing full-time work to be able to perform certain tasks from their profession with another employer outside of working hours and up to one third full-time. This is how the alignment with Article 202 is done. The Labour Act, which defines the Institute of Complementary Work. According to a new solution, the worker is not obliged to seek consent from his manager, or director of the institution. However, the healthcare professional is required to inform the director of a health care institution, i.e. the founder of a private practice in which he works very happily. A copy of the contract is required to be delivered within 15 days of the work inspection in order to control and supplemental work in health care. This solution is in line with our market system which implies free movement of capital and goods, labour, services in all areas. In the context of my presentation, I will also talk about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, in which two key changes and additions are made, and these are – the amendment of Article 66 on health insurance is being made and a certificate on the use of health care for insurance companies referred to abroad is proposed. The importance of this certificate shall be brought to the time period for which the insurance undertaking is referred to work abroad. This is about our diplomats, diplomatic staff and members of their families, as well as employees of our economic and trade organisations abroad. So far, the law has obliged them to verify and confirm themselves in Serbia for 12 months, requiring unnecessary costs. The second, but no less important change relates to the most sensitive category of citizens, and these are pregnant women. Everyone knows the delay in the compensation for pregnant women who are suffering from illness or complications in terms of maintenance of pregnancy. These delays are a few months apart. According to the applicable law of pregnant women, compensation for the same month is paid in two parts, 65% through the employer's account, and 35% of the fund is paid at the insurance company's expense. This way of paying the fees has proved to lead to the prolonging of the payment of part of the compensation for the pregnancy. The new proposal stipulates that the transfer of funds to employed women during the maintenance of pregnancy is paid entirely through the employer's account, and we believe that this will solve the current problem at the expense. Due to all the above-mentioned quality solutions, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed legislation in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43231	Thank you, Mr. Lakovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43232	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished ministers and respected guests, this is certainly the biggest problem for the citizens of Serbia and this topic certainly gathers their attention and since the inability to treat today is one of the biggest fears facing RS citizens. How many families in Serbia can confirm on personal examples how inappropriate it is and how over-sufficient it is, and somewhere a system that cannot respond to those basic needs when it comes to new trends, but also when it comes to growth and various diseases among Serbian citizens, or when it comes to a level of mortality that is certainly greater than it was in decades ago. The fight against corruption is also one of the basics regarding this particular topic. Equality of the private and public sector is one proposal that we have had several times the opportunity to face and debate about it, but we have certainly never heard the arguments until the end without these arguments being based on this difficult or it is not possible to do so within a short period of time. Transferring responsibilities from the public to the private sector is also one of the solutions and I certainly think there are very good indicators, even analyses that have found that this is one of the key solutions to this major problem. Pressure reduction, also from the public sector, public expectations is something that every state hospital today faces. Somewhere this reduction of pressure would also contribute to a much better solution to such major problems facing Serbia's health system, not only when it comes to the primary sector, but also when it comes to secondary levels, excuse me, health care, it is also possible to at least talk about the subject, and certainly in a situation where there are not enough resources and in a situation where we may not have a strong enough will that it is actually difficult to even talk about, let alone some of the things implemented in the work. The reform of Serbia's health system is overly necessary. It is both necessary and you know it and what is very important is that I personally agree with that famous theory of yours – let us remove all of this from the policy sector and this should not be part of the day-to-day political accusations or collecting some points. For this reason, I am telling you that after 2003 the document of Serbia's health policy was completed and when it was presented to the public, not much has been done and it's completely something from someone, let me say, the recognition that I don't want to deal with this issue personally. But by 2003, there was an intention, even in a political sense, to end things. Who ran the health system in Serbia, and who managed all this sector within the government of the Republic of Serbia? That, of course, can be seen every day on the Internet, who has forgotten, but today absolutely is not and should not be a topic. Serbia's health policy at the time is created in line with some European and global trends in the development of health systems and recommendations in fact of the health insurance system. If we just compare the data that Serbia today has twice the mortality rate for all causes of death, or three times the mortality rate due to the disease of blood and blood vessels, then it is quite clear why so much fear is in the public eye and why Serbian citizens with great anxiety talk about this problem. Perhaps the biggest causes of this situation are inadequate management within the health care system, i.e. inconsistency of health capacities and, of course, the age structure of the population and non-inclusion of the private sector, which we believe is also one of the most significant problems in this case, in the health care system, and ultimately insurance. To avoid too much debt, it is precisely the backbone and essence of the DS pre-election programme, which speaks of involving the private sector, to reduce healthcare corruption on the one hand. You can say -- no affair, no since I was a minister, but in any case, citizens face some kind of corruption every day. It doesn't have to be exact and it doesn't have to be just about putting money directly in someone's pocket, but in any case it is present in different ways and visions when it comes to the health care system, especially in Serbia. We not only believe that fighting corruption is what is very important when it comes to the health system, but also when it comes to equating the private and public sectors, not only on the primary but also on the secondary level. It is also a kind of discharge from expectations when it comes to the public towards the public sector, and when it comes to hospitals that do not have enough resources, and when it comes to clinical and hospital centres, and at different levels. So primary health care is also highly neglected in Serbia. That's also what's part of the problem somewhere, but one small part given the overall picture on this subject. Just let me have another sentence. I had just had a chance to hear that the City of Belgrade had not been used enough or that it had not stood up for investment in the health system and in the Belgrade City area. That's not true. You just said one thing, I assume from a lack of information, without any intention of influencing and interfering politics on this subject. So, not only when it comes to investing the city, when it comes to business, but also when it comes to equipment or when it comes to capital investments, those funds have exceeded what was somewhat the obligation of the City of Belgrade. For a simple reason, we had the opportunity to reconstruct many hospitals from 2008 to 2013, even before, and not just homes of health, which has done more or less every municipality in Belgrade and for ourselves, but also when it comes to clinical and hospital centres. So, from reconstruction, enlargement, completion of not only rough works, but also acquisitions of equipment, many million euros have been allocated from Belgrade City and the city's budget. It's a fact somewhere that's irrefutable and you can ask that at the end and the DRI, it can tell you whether it was or not. In any case, I don't want to be too long, this is a matter that represents a particular solution, and we believe that, despite the lack of funds and whatever the situation in the country today is more difficult than it was in previous years, I think it is very important to include the private sector in solving the problem or eliminating those fears that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are facing today. That's one solution. I agree with you that it's hard to realize, but in any case it's worth trying, and we need to have a strategy that's certainly in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43233	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Minister Zlatibor Loncar's word. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43234	As far as this city data is concerned, without any ill intentions, I have commented on what they say is now 150 million separate for these four hospitals, and only one official record, that it never crossed 50 for those four hospitals at the level. Nothing else. I don't think you've been there for private and public health. If you remember, we've run it and we're trying to make the preconditions and the conditions that it can work. If anyone disagrees, feel free to say so. We think it's a basic prerequisite for private health identification, to know what private health care has. Because if we make a deal tomorrow with some private office and you go to that private office tomorrow and you're not satisfied, God forbid something happens, you're not going to watch that private office, you're going to watch us as you are and why you've defined that particular office. The first thing we asked, to remind you, from the very beginning, is that private offices give us their ID card, their data. You weren't here. Since 1300, even 400 haven't finished giving it to us yet, because it's a condition to see what their capacities are, which they have, what they're doing, so we can hire them. It's not up to us. We can't go and take their data in private and make them give it to us and we can tie it to the system. You agree we can't? How can we give? How can we guarantee this private office, if he's already on a contract with the state? How? How can we guarantee if we don't have transparent contracts who works here? How long can it work? Well, if he's a doctor, he's more paid in that private office than he is here, and we don't have it regulated. Well, he's gonna spend his hours there. So, I don't think anybody really wants us to do anything without it being a bigger problem tomorrow. Here, we gave something that depends on the private office, to meet the conditions so that we could work and have everyone safe. That when patients go there, they know that the state is behind it, that the state is responsible if something happens there, whether we estimate good or bad. We don't have any problem with that. And not just with private, military and anything. We want to use all our capacities, we just have to meet the conditions. We've been changing that law in the record so they can adapt to have the same arches to record that they can participate. Well, we can't force anyone to speed something up. I don't see any other reason. So, citizens know, we will, and when we stand behind them to bear responsibility for it, when you went to a private, not to come to the state. You don't go to a private when you have a problem. It's extremely sensitive and it's not a thing to say – okay, now we're going to take the alphabetic order of a private clinic, so in each municipality we're going to choose two or three to work. I think that's the point, to make sure there's safety, to know exactly who can do what and who works in those clinics, what their capacities are. This is a good thing, and this is a mistake, of course, I said it would work in one. Well, you can't run someone to work at ten clinics. Ten clinics a decade to work? That's crazy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43235	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. He's not in the O.R. The word has a People's MP Markovic. He's not in the O.R. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43236	Dear President, as counterpart Bozovic said, I agree with him, Serbia's health system reform is necessary, because it is precisely the reform of the health system that needs to make the system sustainable and efficient. If we just look at the data that Serbia has twice the mortality rate for all causes of death and three times the mortality rate due to heart and blood vessels disease, it is clear the size of the problem. The size of this problem is reflected in the enormous burden of diseases, lack of capacity and ineffectiveness of the existing health care system. Significant problems leading to the poor health condition of the population in Serbia. One of them is an extremely low use of services among socially sensitive groups. Another problem is that many people in our country are not health insurance users, or they do not have health insurance. However, the most important causes of this situation may be: inadequate management within the health care system, health capacity inconsistencies and the age structure of the population and non-involvement of the private sector in the health care and insurance system. The most important challenges for strengthening our nation's health potential are: financial sustainability, availability of health care, demographic trends, setting up a patient at the center of health care. In the health care system, the private sector played a rather marginal role and almost ignored its existence, in terms of including Serbia's health policy goals. Strengthening the system of temporary health care, and thus strengthening the entire health care system, the entire system, is now contributing to functional unification at the primary level of the private and state sector health system. An analysis of European countries' practices just confirms this, that involving the private sector in the health care system is one way to improve the health care system. The inclusion of the private sector at the primary level of healthcare would also create conditions for greater application of preventive medicine, which would further contribute to the effectiveness and effectiveness of Serbia's health system. I will now also talk about the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. When this law was passed on 10 October 2014, the idea was to start with the application of this law on 1 January 2016. Then you said that within 12 months, the Ministry would bring in all sublaws, that health institutions, as well as private practices or other legal entities, would coordinate their acts, organisation and work with provisions within 18 months and no later than 1 January 2020. We all agreed at that time that doctors spend a terrible amount of time on unnecessary administration, and moreover, that's even one third of their total working time. We all agreed then that the management of such an electronic file, or medical record, would mean that doctors would be able to devote more time to their patients because the use of these information technologies does not only make it easier for those who work in the health care system, it also facilitates users of the health care system. Then we spoke, Minister, that your intensity is good - in one more economical, simpler way to keep all the data in one place. Then we said that the intention itself is good, but it's not enough, unless it's followed by some concrete steps that will lead to implementation, in this case, of this law. We then told you that we doubt that you will succeed and that this law will be able to apply from 1 January 2016. Here, today I see in the explanation that public procurement for an integrated health information system is not yet completed, that it is not possible to pass regulations for the implementation of this law. If you'd listened to us when we spoke, we wouldn't be in this situation today, a few days before the law came into force, but it's obviously the practice of this government. What we have been saying will also be a problem, and we will propose to the amendments that this deadline be extended even further, so that we do not come back to the situation next year that the law will not be able to enter into force on 1 January 2017. One problem is that information technologies often require some new people with some new knowledge. This is difficult because of this ban on public sector employment. Another obstacle is that by 2017 doctors and medical staff should define the procedures and streams of this information, and then those who deal with information technologies bring all this together in the whole and make the system functional. And how do we do all this, when doctors and medical staff, due to pay cuts and conditions in the health care system, are pretty demoted to do all this? The following is something that you, Minister, and, it seems to me, my fellow Milosavljevic touched about the reconstruction of some military hospitals, with the intention of bringing it to the cause, or to be used as hospitals of general practice. You were talking about Nis and Novi Sad. I would also mention the Clinical Centre in Kragujevac, i.e. in August of the month, I think you received from the City Health Institute of the City of Kragujevac one intention or recommendation, a request, for the establishment of a general hospital in Kragujevac, as a secondary level of health care. Their intention was to build a new hospital. Construction would cost about 15m euros somewhere, and I'm not sure how much the ministry could carry out. My proposal is that, given that there is a vacuum between primary healthcare facilities and the clinical center, as the highest-ranking institution, there are vacuums for the needs of oncology patients, geriatric populations, etc. One of our recommendations is that in the co-operation of your ministry, the Ministry of Defence, the RFO, and the town of Kragujevac, since there is already a Serbian Army stationary in the town of Kragujevac, that this Serbian Army stationary is being renovated, that he is being brought in for the purpose of being also used as a military hospital, or military stationary, but used as a city hospital, or general hospital. The last thing I want to ask and get information is that you seem to be at the beginning of your term, perhaps a little later, Minister, saying that you would define some means to reconstruct the Clinical Centre in Nis, the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, and Novi Sad and Kragujevac were not mentioned at that time. Does this mean that, for example, the Kragujevac Clinical Centre will run out of funds for reconstruction because the Kragujevac Clinical Centre covers the central area and, I think, western Serbia and covers as many as two million inhabitants? Does this mean that, in that case, patients from Prepolje, patients from Novi Pazar will have to go to air therapy all the way to Belgrade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43237	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43238	I must first tell you that the practice of this government and this ministry is to solve problems, it works and it will work. About clinical centres, to invest money in something, you have to have a project to do. There's no project for Kragujevac. We agree that the town hospital should have Kragujevac. There are two options that are being considered - whether it's going to be a new building or whether it's going to take advantage of the capacities currently being considered, which already exist, which are not currently being used. So now it's just a dilemma that's supposed to be. As far as Novi Sad is concerned, the paperwork is complete. He'll get in the process. It's something that's been done. What I expect is that this other clinical center, other than Nis, we get permission to call a tender and then it's a procedure that goes and will be built. These are the things for which all the deadlines signed by the European Bank have been broken down so far. All those four clinical centres were supposed to be completed. We're in a situation where the Kragujevac Clinical Centre doesn't even have documentation, and that Belgrade received documentation 15 days ago, Novi Sad the same thing a few weeks ago. That's the point and that's the fact. It was done in this term. The only thing Nis is working and should be done by 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43239	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Bradich, you've only got 18 seconds, as I understand it, you've given up the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43240	Since a lot of talk is being made about the town of Nis and the Military Hospital, the Military Hospital has a contract with the RFZO for services that are on the waiting list of the Clinical Centre, and the release of military hospital, as a secondary level of health care, would mean taking part of the staff and part of the services to the Clinical Centre because it is now providing services both on secondary and territorial level. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43241	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The word is Dr. Milet Poscurica. Here you go, Dr. Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the Ministry, dear colleagues, if we should talk briefly about the effects of these three laws, it might look like this. As far as the Health Protection Act is concerned, I welcome the takeover of jurisdiction over clinical centres. As for the necessary changes in the managing authorities and the accompanying acts - an excellent solution, but finally the necessary solution because it cannot be otherwise, the second is the founder and other powers. As for solutions that mean that foreign citizens' specialisations should not be decided by our minister, but by the state minister where the resident comes from, in agreement with the institution where the specialisation is carried out – nothing more logical. As for the rights of licensing formerly held by the minister, to protect his associates, he gives licenses to, in some ways, get past the professional organisations and relevant chambers. It was pointless, we talked, and when the law was passed, it was now done and it was a great solution. As far as the Health Insurance Act is concerned, in which we are now trying to facilitate the way in which health care is provided or the safety of healthcare to those going to other countries, it is a good solution, we simplify people to once, during their term of office, stay, on various grounds, mostly in the DKP, but also to other business organisations and institutions abroad, without having to run for a year in Serbia, to regain confidence in the right to use health care. As for the transfer of part of the funds to pregnant women who have different medical grounds, I assume it will work well. It's a good solution, because they're going to be integrally gaining their privileges. In the Law of Records, the amendments were necessary because such a serious thing couldn't be over. Where predictive subversives are, where the legal consequences of this are, in the light of the respect of the Public Procurement Act, it remains to be discussed, but the fact that without such a ZIS that we have entered, which is quite burdensome for healthcare professionals and doctors and sisters, is a massive machinery that we are slowly entering thanks to IT technology, this change is necessary. Is it still enough for a year, most often, that it is, because now people have sat down and reconsidered. The law has brought about this team of people, now they've recalculated their actions and found it's about a year enough for it to be done on that plan, because some institutions, some clinical centres like ours in Kragujevac, have gone quite well on that plan. That's the thing that's been stalking us, and it's left to us, which we rarely show up on the ground, to get a little bit into that information system and later on, general data availability. Now, I've come from this law to speak in more detail, because this brief variant would be inappropriate and unusual for me to end up with, to the joy of many and to shorten this discussion in general support from this great parliamentary majority behind this law. But I want to explain to this additional discussion why it is not a simple apologetic tendency, that it is not simply a worship of solutions that come, but simply a necessary, extorted and logical solution. Therefore, this health information system will help even those circumstances in the laws that we have passed, where patients treated, studied by rare diseases, once they enter this data, despite the fact that the law allows them to enter the documentation, the documentation will be preserved, and therefore a great deal of money for re-examination. If we go back to the Health Protection Act, why is taking over centralization, as is often said here, clinical hospital centres and putting in rank, right next to the clinical centres as the next higher institution? Logically, nothing makes sense, because this hybrid funding system of such a large, powerful institution that provides a secondary and territorial level in some areas of protection has led as far as it goes. Previously on Modernism... Deverticisation of the so-called Deiberalization, the development of autonomy, it's autonomy to cities, mostly cities, they have such institutions, where they could choose their own staff, set up their directors, that later changes in the law that we've passed possibly allow some specialization beyond the program, if they have something to pay from. The disorderly mostly financing of a small piece of funding, and the enormous liabilities for a fund that had to finance it, for God's sake, and for a ministry that should have invested consciously in the fact that the ten years of the law must necessarily lead to equipment sharing. Will the ministry now be able to invest in sophisticated technology, give money to renew technology without someone there being able to fix the roof, so that it leaks, so that there's some big, small, intervention, big damage, etc.? Simply, it was illogical and that kind of decentralisation, you know, so we don't all tend to it. However, when people are seriously ill, they still want to go centralisedly to some top, Belgrade clinic or VMA. In the minds of citizens, there is no fear that going to a higher level of health care will go into a centralisation system that will deprive them of any rights. So I expect that we might finally do an additional effort to and what local self-government today has to monitor, and that's primary health care, finally because of this hybrid way of funding, simply put under one clear state control, because all these people are going to do the primary health care job more. As we've heard, two-thirds of the insurance companies realize both the rights and opportunities to provide them with health care, prevention, advice, etc., etc. Why don't we just let the local self-government pick the directors, the deputies, their boards of directors pet their own, come on, let's say, and their own staff, etc. Finally, most of the funds again give all Serbian citizens out of the budget, through a division carried by the ministry. When it comes to other members, changes are necessary, of course. Who will choose the director, the deputy, who will agree to the acts which the institution of the clinical hospital centre is now doing clearly, and this is for the clinical hospital centre of the government, for these other institutions it is, of course, the ministry, for the others and let me say the conditionally lower rank of the institution or institutions that provide more health services at the same level, more different health institutions, but this has already been foreseen by the old law proposals. Nothing's changed about that. Deleting in Article 185(2), where the foreign minister gave the foreigner the opportunity, a decision, as if our ministry were funding him, that he would receive specialisation or subspecies. Well, as it does not come from the ministry's decision to finance themselves except for some exceptions when they study about our spending here, but come from the side, about the cost of the state, or if there is an interstate agreement on the cost of our country, it is probably logical that someone is sent to Belgrade or Kragujevac and thinks Serbia can provide this, sufficient level of education, professional education, that it can do so without the minister messing with the job. The minister doesn't need to get involved in the business of licensing health associates, and it's done. Now, I didn't hear anyone brag about it. When the minister derogates his rights knowingly, no one praises it, and if he tries to seduce some order in the organization, then it is considered to be some pathological centralised for patients who do not come to mind if they need radiation or whether they are centralised or not and whether it will be easier or harder. Well, I guess it'll be easier for someone to come to the Starstar from Serbia if the Star is under a republican hat than if it's under the hat of the very city of Belgrade, if we want to watch it that way. Now, something that we all meet here, which is the 199th member in which we talk about this supplemental work until the third full-time. I support this because in the simplest way, we've eliminated the system of night work. So, the one employed in the health care facility now cannot in its own institution ask for 30% of the additional work, and it was the biggest source of corruption, and they all kind of wanted it, and the position and opposition, warring with the minister of the time, when it was brought, which, unlike our minister, was never in the word at all, gave any answers to anyone, simply cybicated what anyone was saying, kept internal notes, but never advertised, never confronted, never defended their positions. A large number of bad solutions from that time, we're trying to do, to fix and that's a "r" of reform, but still reform, we're trying to change something. What did we get this way? We've got a two-way route that hasn't been lost before. Why? Theoretically, if the law says that someone is going to go looking for a job from a health, public health care facility in the private sector, why isn't there a reverse? Imagine the situation where you now have scientific workers, people in college, clinical centres, who have not achieved career advancement, are very skilled maneuvers, very well working, open private clinics or can work in them, why have they returned to institutions where they worked and achieved positive effects? They know that some types of manuality or techniques, intervening technologies or something else they're always in, can't, in reverse, make a contract and do it. So, by law, such a possibility remains. I know that under the earlier law there were attempts that some private people wanted to do interventions in the state institution, but they didn't have a model coming from the ministry, they didn't have a form of contract, the directors were running like the devil from the cross to make such contracts with such people, because they were afraid of both inspection and opinions of the ministry and attitudes, because no one was formulating it. With the current decisions, the current solutions, it comes down to a contract that is either a temple or a revised contract part of a contract on work, on general principles and attitudes, because as we can see, the one who creates a working relationship with another employer carries his primary employer to see that he has concluded the contract. So, he doesn't have to go to the bow and ask for an application and ask him, and he says you can't go, I appreciate that you can't go, because those items that we had about the minimum process of work that he has to satisfy, etc., are now deleted in this way. One greater freedom, one greater mobility of doctors, and why not, because any profession that works in the state sector can also be private. So the doctor could go wash the windows, clean the streets, but he couldn't do his profession. It is not necessary to flee from that supplemental work, but to clearly standardise it and bring it to a legal basis in which it will have to be registered, recorded, be responsible for what it earns, pay taxes, and, of course, speed up and reduce the number of lists and waits and reduce the number of waitings for services. So in that part, I see it's one of the solutions that looks like the previous one, but it's gone one step further. Contract conditions, I don't think we have that member who deals with 200 and 201 so that the contract that should be employed by a health care institution is mostly thought about when this law is talked about, when it goes into private, or some other institution or private, what it should contain. He was a burdensome number of items we had in the earlier law. These two members have been deleted, so I guess that's why we're now relying on general labour contracts, the Labour Act, and finally and finally on the possibility and better control of what's going on, this contractual working relationship concerns one law, one kind of inspection, etc., plus what's being carried. Is he really supposed to carry his own contract to the health care institution, so I'm wondering, maybe he shouldn't be alone. The one who took him to work might need to send it through the official mail. He says - I wore, didn't receive, lost, handed over, here's a note, handed it over at the post office, etc. Perhaps, for example, thinking on that plan would be neither raving or illogical. On health insurance, I have nothing to say, this thing is simplified until the end, with two clear things, that it will add 35% to 65% and that persons who have to work abroad, the government's order, therefore, on that basis, not based on their private stay in another country, will have the right to health care in one full amount, while they have this working relationship with the employer who sent them. So, they don't have to every year, it's a relief procedure, very simple, and I think it's again the need that came from seeing our reality, which led to a change of a very small fraction of this very important law. When we talk about the jurisdiction that local self-government has, to support the importance, let's say, it's nice to some to hear, to centralize, to take over the authority of the state over the clinics and the need to do so at the same time with primary health care. The town of Kragujevac, which is quite a solid city administration, a larger city in Serbia, allocated 37m dinars in 2014 for what could be of jurisdiction, primary health care. This year, the state with 20 million is helping all primary protection programmes that it does not own, but owns local self-government. I mean, the Ministry of Health, I mean, not the state. So there is much, much greater resources and one finally and significantly more responsible. We cannot ask the minister to be responsible for the conduct of the doctor's leadership, for their acts at the level of local self-government, and that when something happens, and very often that theatreism tends to be in both the media and amongst us MPs, Minister, resign, because there's some doctor wrong, the director, some doctor has made a mistake, and the minister resigns. That's nonsense. You know the responsibility that exists in health care and how there is, who made the mistake, it fits. The director is responsible for carrying out the procedure, and only the minister who doesn't even wonder who the director is, how the director was elected, that date and at which local self-government. So, even on such a serious thing as a clinical hospital center, where the probabilities of serious mistakes are very large, where you health inspection when you have to send it, it's not exactly the same way with a health inspection, then finally talking to the city administration, so that there it solves at the level of who owns it or addresses the Ministry, or the government that is responsible for what such people have called it. It will have much more favourable consequences in the final repercussion, and in essence, it will only know who is the owner of the money and who is responsible for what we want to change in function and patients will have no idea what we are talking about today and what it means to him, whether the Ministry has now taken over to finally finance and be responsible for the work of both high-level institutions such as clinical and hospital centres, or whether it remains the Starar, or "Dragisa Misovic" and the city of Belgrade. That's what I'm talking about and I think it's a simple solution and I expect that at lower levels these pragmatic solutions are applied, and that means reformal, because there's something else to be reformal, especially some other laws, and then we'll see that whoever gives the most money is responsible for carrying out the most responsibility and creating a health policy, which is the Ministry and Government, they need the highest responsibility to have, rights, and citizens to enjoy the greatest possible extent of the rights offered at that level and present opportunities. That's why I, as well as the members of our political party, will support, believe and coalition partners, these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43243	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43244	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out at the very beginning that the MP group of the SPS in the voting day will support the proposed Law amending the Health Insurance Act, the Law amending the Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which I am going to talk about today. The amendments to the Health Insurance Act aim to improve, achieve the right of compulsory health insurance and to provide higher levels, quality of health care, citizens' health, resulting from the co-operation of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund. The proposed legislative solutions concern the exercise of the right to health care of insurance companies directed to work abroad, as well as members of their families, and the more effective exercise of the right to cash compensation, insurance companies during temporary prevention of work, due to diseases or complications related to maintenance of pregnancy. First, through the extension of the period of validity of a certificate for the use of health insurance companies referred to abroad, as well as members of their immediate family, it has been proposed to extend the rights, by confirming the use of health care abroad, to be issued for a period for which the insurance undertaking is addressed to work abroad, and not as under the current law, for a maximum period of 12 months, for the same period as the insurance undertaking's certificate of use of health care abroad, shall be issued to a member of his family's rope. They have so far had to return to the country after a 12-month period, from the date of issue of the certificate, to draw out a new certificate, requiring additional financial costs, absence from work and other problems. Therefore, I support a new legislative solution that prescribes that a certificate on the use of health care for an insurance undertaking sent to work abroad, or a member of the insurance family, will apply for a period for which the insurance company is posted abroad. Amendment to the Health Documentation and Registration Act in the field of health care is proposed to extend the deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts for the implementation of this law from 12 months to 24 months from the date of entry into force of the Law. In this respect, it is proposed to postpone the application of the law from 1 January 2016 to 1 January 2017. The reason for moving deadlines is that the procedure for public procurement, an integrated health information system, is not yet completed so that neither sublaws nor law enforcement can be accessed. The Health Protection Act stipulates that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act regulates the acquisition of founding rights over clinical and hospital centres by the Republic. The proposed solutions are the result of co-operation and consultation of the Ministry of Health, the competent authorities of the city of Belgrade and representatives of the health union, which agreed that this proposed legislative solution will have a positive impact on the organisation and quality of the work of these health institutions that should provide as high and complete health care as possible for the citizens of the Republic. As clinical and hospital centres perform health care at secondary and therapeutic levels of health care, which is of particular importance for the Republic, i.e. highly specialised, specialised and specialised health care, with the use of very complicated procedures and expensive diagnostic equipment, it was considered a logical and adequate solution that the founder of clinical and hospital centres should be the Republic. These amendments to the laws also regulate the issue of complementary work of healthcare professionals by harmonising supplementary work in the healthcare system with the provisions of the Labour Act. So, according to a new solution, a health worker, a health associate, as well as another person employed in a health institution, i.e. private practice and another legal person who performs a health work, who works full-time can work additionally with another employer, outside of working hours for up to one third of full-time. The law now establishes the obligation of a healthcare professional, a health associate or another employee to notify the Director of a health institution in writing of a completed contract on supplementary work, i.e. the founders of a full-time private practice. On completed contracts for supplementary work, a health institution, i.e. private practice and another legal person performing health work, shall be obliged to keep records. The original copy of the supplemental work contract within 15 days of the date of conclusion of the contract shall be submitted to the health inspection by the staff member. In this way, more effective monitoring and control of the application of supplementary work institutes in the field of health care is provided. This will remove the basis for a number of genderisms in the public and problems in practice when the additional work of healthcare professionals is at stake. There are now numerous objections to the organisation of this type of work. The bile discussions on this topic are not only public, but also among doctors and within their professional organisations. The largest number of doctors and medical workers are doing their job safely and properly, and they are bothered that one of their colleagues is abusing the position. I would like to point out that the principle of right to work, including the additional one, and abuse of rights is something else. Additional work has in some cases been a source of corruption. However, individual cases cannot be the basis for condemning the entire health system. We believe that these cases are not a rule, but an exception. Irregularities and abuses must be contained in a more regular and consistent, organised and implemented complementar work, as well as in the control of legality, and the role of inspection bodies is irreplaceable. It is evident that in Serbia we have an insufficient number of specialists, it is evident that they are not adequately paid, and there are also problems in the field of additional work. Unfortunately, we also face the fact that in search of better income, specialists go abroad. The proposed legal solutions try to solve these problems. I hope that the proposed solutions will contribute to a professional specialist who is a necessary condition for achieving quality and timely and effective health care in Serbia to remain in the country. There are, unfortunately, young doctors going abroad, as well as specialists with long-term experience and valuable experience. This leaves us without top surgeons, anesthesiologists, specialists of various specialities in whose education is invested great resources and time and who will not be able to pass on their knowledge to their younger colleagues. Serbia can expect even more doctors to go to the EU. The reasons for the outflow of our doctors are the inability of employment, better working conditions and greater earnings, but also better treatment of the profession abroad. We need to motivate doctors to stay in the country. In order not to get into a situation where we have to import doctors, the problem has to be seen for both the whole and the system, and one way is to allow additional work. With their basic salary in the name of supplemental work, doctors can make extra money. Once again to say that the proposed legislative solutions that I have been talking about should contribute to the promotion, the organisation of health services, or to improving the quality of health care, so the SPS parliamentary group will support the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43245	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43246	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Health, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I will probably repeat myself in my discussion with my fellow Members, but I do not think that this is a waste for the public, for the sake of our fellow health workers, because all of us who work in Serbia's health system know that Serbia's health system is one of the most important pillars of our society, and given this, all three proposed laws on the agenda today are precisely aimed at improving the quality of health care, improving health care conditions, better availability of health care for citizens, because we are seeking and working to ensure that citizens, i.e. citizens, i.e. Patients, potential patients are focused on the health system. We want to ensure and want to have the best prevention and diagnostics and therapeutic procedures and rehabilitation. I believe, personally, that the proposed laws are being passed at a very important moment for our country now that the first negotiating chapters have been opened in Brussels and by adopting these draft laws, this is a continuation of the serious work and effort that our government is making, Prime Minister Vukic, in order to overcome all the obstacles that stand before us on the road to the EU, because only a balanced and open Serbia can attract foreign investment and that it is a safe and good place to live for its citizens. In this context, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is very important because it represents a new quality in this area, which not only brings us closer to EU laws, but also contributes to improving Serbia's health care system. By taking over the founding rights by the Republic over the clinical and hospital centres, they are created as we have already heard the necessary preconditions for improving the conditions for performing health activities for more adequate co-ordination in work, but also for the necessary capital investments. Also, we have heard that the proposed legal solution is done in a precise way to regulate supplemental work in health care. I think that additional work in health care exists in many EU countries. If I'm wrong, you correct me. In a new way, it now defines the Institute of Complementary Work, which is in line with the Labour Act and creates the necessary conditions for monitoring and controlling the quality of work in the field of health. There's going to be a principle of transparency at work, so we'll know exactly who works and how much it works. This is important because it enables new quality in the work with precisely defined and binding monitoring of the work of healthcare professionals, associates and other healthcare providers in the healthcare system, but we will also know the obligations of the healthcare institution in which they work. This provides a higher level of health services for our citizens and prevents the potentially so many times mentioned abuses in the field of additional work. The introduction of precise procedures in the application of non-restrictive supplementary work allows us to see and to take a closer look at the labour market, which are healthcare professionals who perform complementary work with another employer, but on the other hand, to see what the capacities of these employers are. As far as the Health Insurance Act is concerned, I believe that its changes are very important because they significantly improve the current law. It allows for improving the exercise of compulsory health insurance rights for our citizens who are referring to work abroad, as well as for members of their family's ropes. Perhaps an even more important part of the proposed amendments to the law is one that refers to the means of compensation due to the temporary prevention of work due to illness or complications related to the maintenance of pregnancy, as there has been a long-term delay in the payment of these insurance companies so far. Simply, it simplifies the procedure and allows for a regular flow of money to future mothers who can plan to spend money and lead a more orderly pregnancy and hygiene childcare regime, without the stress of thinking about money, so that this material uncertainty, which is not a minor item, will be avoided. This can also have a positive impact on the resolution of more women and the decision to become pregnant. Finally, the adoption of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health, I believe, is very important in order to create preconditions for the smooth functioning of the health system in the field of records and reporting, so that, as well as my colleagues from the SNS, I will support all three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43247	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Blažić, then Milan Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43248	Dear Chairman, Professor Vekic, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, these laws and amendments and additions to these three laws today are only new cubes in the mosaic of the creation of a new health, health care far more responsible, more professional, quality, health care in the interests of Serbian citizens and ultimately health care that is in line with the opportunities of our society. These dice came as a consequence, and they were preceded by 2,000 specializations, 1,000 staff doctors and nurses, "Gama knife", many vehicles bought for emergency services, health repairs at all levels, fighting corruption. It's all done in this previous period, and we've come across a lot of criticism here by the opposition that this is wrong or wrong. And when the minister asked - well what you did for those 12 years, he didn't get an answer. I'll answer for him. They didn't do anything. Twelve years, rather, they did -- they mutilated and sickened the health care, as they maimed and made the whole society sick. I remembered that Emperor Diocletian was not remembered for knowing in time to leave the authorities and commit himself to the creation of the cabbage, but rather for how he ruled the Roman Empire. So it would have been better for the DS if she had known in time to leave the government, they didn't have to plant cabbage, maybe they could plant feces and weed, so I could find an excuse for some of their discussions when it comes to criticism for criticizing everything and everything good and what kind of a great fight is being made in this country. When it comes to these three laws and the general speech of centralised and decentralisation, I'm talking about clinical hospital centres and the transition of the state to be the founder, it's often manipulated by that concept, so everything would be decentralised as it can be decentralisationd. Slowly, it's not quite as simple as that, especially when someone is calling for a country to be decentralised by the example of Germany, France, China. Well, you know what, their regions, the smallest ones, are bigger than our country as a whole. We are a small country, and we need to see how our development strategy is made to make it the most progressive, cheapest and most in the interest of the citizens. She tried decentralisation after 2000, and they even shared health centers, so in a small town you have a home of health that works independently of the hospital, so it made health specialists crazy when they needed a hospital for duty, they couldn't because they worked at another facility. Well, then the car, which has a home of health, couldn't allow the hospital to carry its patient to, say, a physical institution, just because it needs someone to pay for it now, so it's invoiced, the health care home invoices the hospital, the hospital invoices the home of health, within a city of 40,000 residents. Well, is that decentralisation? Well, that's crazy, that has nothing to do with brains. I think it's high time to do it again, because this country, that this centralization, is precisely to provide a way of planning and strategic planning of the state when capital investments are, not only when it comes to health, but everything that can be considered in that sense, when it comes to regional development, monitoring how this country will develop at all levels and everywhere. So this is how we double capacity, double apparatus, double experts, double everything, and in some places we have nothing. It's one chaos, one society that doesn't deserve to move on. That's why all these changes are extremely important, extremely necessary, and I think that they will make this health care move even higher and even better forward. There's talk here about whether in a year we're going to start applying the Health Documentation Act. We've passed an extraordinary documentation law. Documentation involves monitoring how the patient's health condition, monitoring the health status of the population in general, monitoring the capacity, monitoring the resources. The documentation includes information, means international co-operation, documentation means one of the most important segments of professional development and health surveillance. You can't break that overnight. Well, why haven't they introduced that system in 12 years when they're so smart? It is necessary to wait and make quality, because it will save funds, raise quality and level of health care and create the right system when it comes to documentation in society. I must comment that it is necessary that people from abroad do not come to verify books every six months, etc., all that these laws provide for. But what I have to say is, again, it's some criticism about trying to get pregnant and when it comes to maternity care, to make it easier for women to get to get those 100% of their salary but in a simpler and faster way. In the end, we brought that 35%, what wasn't, to add more to pregnant women and provide them, thanks to them and their values and importance in this society, to get 100%. Well, we brought it, no one brought it 10 and 15 years ago. We are now saying how to make it even easier for them to get to the money that belongs to them as soon as possible, and the technical way is to transfer the total amount to the employer, that he only pays, because the late payment is not a delay in the Fund, it is not a delay in the budget, the delay is in the documentation that the employer has to submit to the Fund, so that after that money is returned, they pay into his special account and that he cannot manipulate those funds. It's a special account from which he is obliged to give women, pregnant women and maternity care. It's simple stuff. I think this is going to speed up further, and this is going to be our decision that we've made. In the end, in any case, this should be supported, as until now, in this course of society, the reform course should be supported by these three laws. I think this is another step forward to create this health care and step by step, and this country will be at the side of all other developed countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43249	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43250	The Honorable Chairman, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, after such exhaustive discussions, will certainly repeat my discussion in some part because it is about amending the three laws, about individual members who are changing. It is common to all three amendments that these changes are in fact an improvement in the law and provide better legal solutions, which in the end also affect the organisation of health services and the provision of health services. One fellow opposition MP mentioned - so what is it? We receive third time in the Assembly of Supplements and Amendments to the Health Protection Act. I don't see at all what the problem is, and there are three more changes and there are ten amendments to the law, the amendments of the law come especially out of life. The ministry organised, detects problems and immediate resolution of problems can be achieved by amending the law. These changes in the law are not as he said in the underestimating tone, but these are very affirmative changes, because they improve individual members of the law. And last time, a month ago, we had a change-up on the doctor's chamber again. Well, she came from a health care problem and some laws they passed eight years ago. So, it does not say that the amendments to the law should be viewed in this way as he has presented it, but rather the perception of the problem and the automatic quick solution to all the problems that exist. First, in the Health Protection Act, colleagues also said, these clinical hospital centres that belonged to the city's founders, its founding rights move to the Republic, which is quite logical. These are highly specialized health institutions, provide secondary, and in some segments and therapeutic health care. In order to provide quality health care, it certainly requires large investment investments that can certainly be supported by the Republic, not by local community or self-government, and therefore also by professional training, new methods, so that this segment is an improvement. In a law that one minister passed, I think, that's my opinion, and it didn't come from my thinking, but from talking to colleagues who work in health homes, in that so-called. primary health care, which, with secondary and tertiary, makes up the entire health system, has suddenly been torn apart and handed over to the administration of local communities or local self-government. We now have a paradoxical, per se situation, the Republic and the Ministry are expected to do a strategy for development and functioning of health care, and in a practical sense in this segment of primary health care, in an indirect way, of course, nobody has to answer me, and we know that as colleagues, you cannot directly have interference and that we are not talking about many of these screenings being carried out and which are an important part of the primary healthcare segment. However, if you finance your own income and in a proper way the primary fits into the overall health care, the state must, by this I mean the ministry, have interference with how this segment of health works. This way, as far as I know, there are problems, especially since colleagues also complain that in these conditions, in primary health care other than investment maintenance, they do not have any means to restore equipment and some significant investment. Maybe he's at the ministry, but I'm not saying this, because they're already thinking about it fat, how that part rightly, maybe I'm wrong, maybe it's our remarks, those colleagues who think it's one situation, that local personnel are setting up directors. That's the least of the problems. I don't need politics to be involved in that degree, but we do declare it. My colleague said that health care should not be mixed with politics, although I personally think that they have very often used health care in political competition and I personally think that health and education are vital basics where doctrine and profession are required to give way of organization and function, but unfortunately these things also happen. I'm a little bit with this primary health care, which still remained under some control of the local community, although they, to be clear, as far as medical doctrine is concerned, apply medically and fit into that organization of the entire health system, but there's one step that separates. Now that a clinical hospital centre is involved, it is safe to think about this segment as well, as I repeat again, if the state gives money, the state must and ask how primary health care, who is responsible, works in this Leskovac, Kragujevac, Belgrade. In this law, supplemental work has been released. In my opinion, very simple and efficient. Once again, one opposition MP mentioned why there was additional work, so you cut the doctor's salary, which is why. Such an explanation doesn't stand, that I can't imagine anyone saying that. This supplemental work in health care hasn't been invented. It hasn't been invented in the last two years since there's been any other option in power, not theirs. This supplemental work has existed for 15 years. The fact is, it exists, it's a sensitive place, a corrupt place, but 99% of doctors and medical staff, which is quality, we can't look through individual cases. The essence of the supplemental work is not that the salaries are reduced. That's what I say for the public. This supplemental work will exist in five years when there are excellent salaries. It is not a matter of some, of additional income, that it is not primarily, certainly, that the additional activity enables adequate income for the individuals involved. In one way, one member solves the possibility and obligation of the employer to keep records and to know who does the supplementary work, and on the other hand, the inspection must be delivered. Reintroduce some order in this legal opportunity to work with another employer up to a third of the working time. The supplemental work, once again I say, will exist in countries where there are excellent salaries, so that we don't mix, not to use expressions when one and the other is mixed for some more used for political reasons, that this is diminished as some thing that isn't significant, but is speculative. There's a lot of what-what in life, but it's people, there are other laws, there's another way of organization that needs to contain such things that happen, abuse in work, or in another part. As for the licensing of health associates, it cannot be an improvement when in the previous law whether the minister should give all health associates consent. Quite logically, after the formation of the appropriate chambers to transfer that part of the licensing in that part, so that part of the solution, related to healthcare associates, is certainly an improvement and relief in that section relating to the earlier licensing function. As for the approval of specialization, I must admit that I didn't know that there was this position in the member that our ministry approved specialization for foreign citizens. This makes perfect sense. If that foreign citizen is doing his health work in that other country, normally he needs a ministry, whose citizen he is, to approve specializations, not our ministry. It's such a logical thing to change this and to me it was surprising. It is possible that during some period, since we had a lot of foreigners 30 years ago, from Libya, Egypt, Palestine, they studied, and it is possible that during this period some agreement was made and demanded that our ministry help, but thus approving some specialization, the ministry takes some responsibility, such as this issue of equalising private and state health. You know, if you could even yourself out, it wasn't just the private guy came in, signed the contract, and they're coming in for a checkup tomorrow, I'm charging from the fund. That someone who signs, that's what the minister said, has to meet some conditions, have to be accredited. You have to put it on the list. This needs to be taken very seriously, and what I have seen both in the work so far and in this scan and making a list of private offices, a great approach has been made to solve the problem systemically. The whole function, as far as I've seen, of the ministries of equalising private and state health goes in one right direction to avoid undermining some mistakes and failures that cause other problems. Finally, to mention this law where the problem of extension of insurance is solved among those who are directed abroad and members of their families to this period of time to which they are referred, rather than within a limited period of time. My colleague Okić mentioned right before me in the temporary prevention of pregnant women, the problem that was observed and which existed and when the parliamentary group was in power, it was not just the last year, we added those 35%, but now we want to simplify in one place to get the money and that in those most beautiful moments or the most sensitive moments of pregnancy and maintenance of pregnancy and other obstacles, the resources of someone necessary to live in the right way without some, as we say, bureaucratic. Many beliefs they had to collect and carry in one place, so every month they collected a lot of time and the public was familiar with the problem, this way all of this is resolved. So in the end, the general impression, I think from the discussion of the predecessors that all these changes were absolutely necessary, they solve problems are improving the law, they represent improving the function of health care in those segments to which they relate, and that is why I, as well as my parliamentary group, will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43251	The word has the People's MP Jelisaveta Pribojac, then Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43252	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Health, respected MPs, health care and health insurance laws after ten years of application really require comprehensive changes, because as system laws governing the area of the health system and health insurance systems, there are no problems we face almost daily in the health system. That is why any change certainly improves the conditions for performing health care. With the amendment and addition of the Health Protection Act, seven members are involved, four members are deleted in general, 198a, 198b, 200 and 201. Articles 48, 130 and 141 regulate the acquisition of founding rights by the Republic over clinical-patient centres, then define that the Director, Deputy Director, members of the Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards of Clinical Hospital Centres is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the consent to the statutes of the clinical and hospital centres by the Government. Following the application of these amendments and the addition of the Health Protection Act, the licensing of healthcare associates will be carried out in competent chambers, i.e. associations. What is important to point out is the amendment of Article 199 concerning the complementary work of healthcare professionals, health associates, as well as other persons employed in health institutions and private practice. With regard to this supplemental work, there has always been controversy, we will all agree that this type of supplemental work has so far and in health care, but also in patients it has created the impression of the greatest corruption. Since there was no record of anyone or where, or how much he worked in the supplemental work. We will also agree that everyone has the right to carry out extra work in their spare time, so outside of regular working hours, and so will healthcare professionals, health care professionals and private practice can carry out jobs from their profession with another employer, but under certain conditions. And those terms are next. One of the first conditions is that a health worker works full-time and what no one here has commented today is that this means that all healthcare professionals who under a special collective contract for health institutions whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, AP and local self-government will not be able to work in addition work. For example, health workers working in the ionizing radiation zone, due to particularly difficult jobs, because of jobs that have a harmful effect on their health, a member of the 38th special collective contract regulates that they have reduced working hours, more specifically their jobs are part of the first group of part-time jobs, or 30 hours a week. That's why they won't be able to work in addition work, if I'm wrong, correct me. Another condition is that supplemental work does not last longer than one third of full-time, and the basis for supplemental work is actually the conclusion of a contract on additional work. This contract must be notified to the employer, i.e. the director of a health institution, the founder, and one copy of the contract must be delivered to the health inspection within 15 days from the date of signature of the contract. And I think that's the most important thing in this article of 199. Because only with adequate inspection supervision, with adequate inspection control, with constant control, the interests of state health care institutions will not be compromised, and only in this way will Article 199 have the real A effect that is intended to be achieved. The Health Insurance Act is a basic law that regulates health insurance rights and obligations. By amending Article 66. The Health Insurance Act improves and extends the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance to persons referred to work abroad as well as members of their families, by issuing a certificate for the use of healthcare for that period referred to in their work abroad. By now, the period had been 12 months, so they had to come to Serbia and extend the certificates. For persons travelling privately abroad, the certificate shall be issued to the insured person for a maximum period of 90 days from the date of issue of the certificate. In this way, a high level of quality health care is provided, as well as a high level of exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance. Amendment to Article 96 The Health Insurance Act refers to compensation for prevention of disease prevention or maintenance of pregnancy. By paying the employer out of their resources for the first 30 days of the sick, and after 31 days 65% will be paid out of compulsory health insurance and 35% from the Serbian budget, by transferring these 35% to the RFZO and transferring it to employers. So far, RFZO has been paying 35 percent of that amount at the insurance company's expense. This proposal is really simpler and more efficient because it does not really require the filling of a large number and processing of a large number of forms as it has been the case so far. As regards the Law on Health Documentation and Records, Amendments and Supplements shall apply to the extension of the time limit for its application in order to carry out certain procedures. We all know that the data contained in medical and medical documentation are very important, that they must be accurate, that they must be up-to-date and adequately protected from loss, protected from destruction, protected from access and change, and that all health institutions are obliged to keep that documentation in writing electronically or otherwise, depending on what kind of medical documentation is involved, and all of this must be in accordance with the rules on the preservation of an archive building with certain deadlines. That is why it is important, comprehensive and comprehensive, to adopt the following rules for the implementation of this law, and that is why, in the voting day, I, as well as all my fellow SNS, will support all these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43253	The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijatovic, and then Violeta Lutovac. Mr. Mijatovic, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43254	The Honorable Chairman, respected co-workers of the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of health laws is just one small but necessary and acute intervention within the health system of the Republic of Serbia. What we should also know and what should be said, I have knowledge or have knowledge that the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health are preparing a comprehensive health care law that will include these changes, as well as some in any case capital and crucial changes in the health system under the Health Protection Act. Why? We know and, unfortunately, we are aware of how much the health system of the Republic of Serbia has been destroyed in 12 years with an extremely incompetent minister, Mr Tomic Milosavljevic. Now, in any case, it takes a lot of work and effort to correct what is rooted and what is bad in the health system and what has in some way been given legal legitimacy, to correct it and to perform it on a proper path and to have a health system worthy of us living in Europe and in the Republic of Serbia. Much has been said to these laws that are on today's agenda, so more because of the citizens of Serbia, I would fly over these three laws that are on the agenda today. First, the Law amending the Health Insurance Act. The adoption of this law gives rise to the right of insurance undertakings to extend the period of validity of a certificate for the use of health care during their stay abroad of insurance and family members, i.e. when the insurance company is sent to work abroad. The certificate of use of health care, the amendment of a member of the law, shall be issued to the period for which the insurance company has been sent to work abroad, and this amendment of the law shall abolish the need to renew the certificate every year, which in any case constitutes a significant shift and relief of the lives of the people referred to abroad. Article 3 provides that all insurance undertakings as well as family members who are assigned to work abroad, and the certificate has been issued until the date of entry into force of this law, shall be valid for the period for which the insurance undertaking is addressed to work abroad. So, in any case, you don't have to show up every 90 days or shorter periods of time and renew your insurance. The draft law amending the Law on Health Documentation and Records - an earlier Law on Health Documentation and Records has been laid down for a period of 12 months for the entry into force of the rules implementing the law. In view of the fact that all the actions in the context of the public procurement procedure for the integrated health information system, due to the complaints lodged, are not completed, it is necessary to extend the time limit for the application of this law from 12 months to 24 months, i.e. the application of this law from 1 January 2017. Mr. Secretary explained it very well, and I don't think there should be any dispute here. This change removes the possibility of jeopardising the functioning of the health system in the field of records and reporting, and thus also the health system in general, which could in any case result in adverse effects on human health. The last law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act that was most discussed here. This amendment of the law brings about a change in two segments under the Health Protection Act. The first change refers to the founders of clinical and hospital centres, i.e. until now the founder of these facilities has been the city. However, in addition to the law envisaged to carry out secondary healthcare, the clinical hospital centres also perform highly specialised health work at the territorial level, which includes a high level of equipment, which requires large capital investments. We heard that these investments were at 150 million dinars, and that earlier those who opposed it had invested only 50 million dinars. Which means it's a 300 percent increase. This is the great importance of clinical hospital centres within Serbia's health system, demands that the city or province's founding rights be transferred to the republic, which is regulated by Article 1 of this law. The second amendment refers to the supplemental work of a healthcare professional or a health associate who has full hours in one employer, and with another employer is based on the work of that third working time, outside of regular working hours. In a completed contract of working with another employer, a healthcare professional or a health associate is required to inform the Director of a health institution in writing where he works full-time. The paper in the law is that one copy of the original contract for supplementary work is delivered within 15 days of the day of the conclusion of the staff to the health inspection. This change achieves the control of the application of the Institutes of Complementary Work in the field of health care. There's one thing I'm going to have to call, I think Mr. Bradic when he spoke seemed to me like he didn't read or interpret Article 219. Be careful, that position 2 says - in a completed supplemental contract with another employer health care worker, a health associate, as well as another employee is required to inform the director in writing, I think you said in your speech that he is not obliged to do so, etc. Or the founder of private practice, so I don't read it any further. We have discussed this supplemental work here and also on the Health Committee quite often, and Mrs Dejanovic mentioned something. I am one of the supporters that supplemental work was one of the criminogenicity generators in health and the possibility of criminal work, I don't say all, one number of people, so I represent thesis, I have to admit that so far they haven't convinced me that duality in work has just led to this situation. I think it was too early to allow additional work to be done to healthcare professionals who work and in the state institution because that's why we came into the situation when we introduced it that we got a large number of waiting lists, that we brought in a situation where medical devices are not being obtained in hospitals, that medical devices are deliberately being broken down just to get the patients into a private office, where doctors working at the state institution are doing their extra work. We had one more thing. This change in the law may change the situation by requiring health inspection. I hope that this health inspection will work as necessary, not to report, very often we know that the inspection occurs before it comes to some health care facility for control, so everything is fine, in order to prevent any of these activities and, ultimately, to serve our patients and people who need to do some medical care, some medical activity, treatment, surgery and so forth. I think I'm still saying that, primarily, private offices, or private health care, should enter the state health system, make a contract with the fund, so that the patient doesn't care whether he goes to a private office or goes to a state office with his book, with the one where he's paid for his health insurance. In this way, we may introduce far greater order, as well as some kind of criminal labor generator, to the least possible extent possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43255	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Violeta Lutovac, and then Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43256	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues from the Ministry of Health, respected fellow Members of the People, I think that at any time we should talk about the health system, or about the proposals of a health care law, there should be no doubt that we are not doing so in favour of improving the health system itself, or that we are aiming at improving the health of the population itself. Today we are talking about a set of draft health law, i.e. a proposal for a health insurance law, as well as amendments to the Law on Health Care and Amendments to the Law on Health Records and Documentation in Health, which is a change of technical nature, so that I will focus my exposure on the previous proposals of two laws, the Health Insurance and Health Insurance Act. The draft health insurance law has clear objectives. The aim of this bill is to improve the exercise of certain health insurance rights. In this proposal, the Health Insurance Act refers to insurance companies referred to abroad. With this bill, i.e. By adopting such a bill, we are in fact extending the rights of the insurance company by issuing a certificate to the insurance company that has been sent abroad for the period on which the health insurance company was sent to work abroad. We are thus reducing the costs of this health insurance company, which, if it remains unchanged under the previous law, would have to be returned after 12 months or a year, in order to extend the health protection certificate. Also, this certificate, issued by the Ministry of Health, covers the health care of members of a family of such a health insurance company. In the case of health insurance companies staying abroad for a private visit, their confirmation is valid for 90 days from the date on which the certificate was issued. What I would point out is that a clear goal is to change this member, which is to improve insurance rights. What this bill is yet to pass is in some way the protection of pregnant women, or pregnant women who are on sick leave, where 35% of the income base is actually paid by the RFO and on behalf of the Republic. Now this base of cash compensation will be paid at the expense of the employer, not at the expense of the insurance company and 65% by the employer, where we receive a cash compensation of 100% and bypassing the completion of double forms, and all in order not to get into a situation where money payments will be delayed. What the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Health Protection Act brings is a change of founders when we talk about a clinical hospital centre. In my view, it was very illogical for the clinical hospital center to stand in the establishment of a municipality, or city. Somehow, I would say that I suspect that the municipality, or the city, is hearing about the needs of such an institution as a clinical hospital center. In addition to being a stationary institution, the clinical hospital provides secondary and tertiary healthcare services, plus which performs highly specialized health care activities, requires a high level of equipment for the health institution. You will agree that this is only possible in the event that the founder is the Republic, because if he is the founder of the Republic, we will have a legal basis for capital investment, which is necessary in this case, and all in order to improve the conditions for performing healthcare. The Director, Deputy Director, as well as members of the Board of Directors and Supervisors at the Clinical and Hospital Centre will certainly, given that this change changes the founder and in this case is the founder of the Republic, will appoint and resolve the Government. It will also give consent to the status of secondary and tertiary health institutions. What we also provide through the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is complementary work by healthcare professionals, health associates or any worker who performs health care work in health institutions. If this healthcare professional achieves the right to full-time at any healthcare facility, he has the opportunity to perform his work through supplemental work by signing the supplemental work contract and the supplemental work contract will contain one third full-time. What I like personally as a doctor is that this same worker who signs the supplemental work contract will have to inform the director who is employed for a full-time period at that healthcare facility. The health institution will have to keep records of signed contracts for additional work, and health inspection will also be notified. I don't think there's a bit of a doubt from all of this that the bill promoter's goal is clear, which is to improve the health care system, so by voting in the voting day, I'm going to contribute to this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43257	Thank you, Dr. Lutovac. The word is Dr Vlado Babic, and let the MP of the people, Ninoslav Giric, be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43258	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed guests from the Ministry of Health, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, is now on the agenda of a set of three amendments to the Health Insurance Act, amending the Health Documentation and Registration Act in the field of health care, as well as amending the Health Protection Act. The reasons for the adoption of the Law amending the Health Insurance Act concern, above all, the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance, and in terms of the creation of one precondition in order to extend the validity of the certificate when using and achieving healthcare during stay abroad. So far, these solutions, both for individuals and for other members of their family, who have been referred to work abroad, have been given for a year, under Article 66, and have been certified by the first-degree medical commission of the RFZO. What was going on? The employer appointed people and directed them to dispensary medical work to carry out an assessment of their work ability. In the dispensary of medical work, i.e. at the workplace and the work to be done by the insurance company and working abroad, the palettes and analysis and diagnostics shall be determined, based on which the specialists of the medical work carry out an assessment of the ability to perform the work and give consent whether or not they can perform the work. If he got consent, then the worker goes to the first-degree medical board, where two members, two doctors verify it and carry it to the reference officer and gets the solution that he can go with that certificate abroad. But now those workers who are abroad at the time of adoption of this law are being extended the possibility of achieving health care until there is a valid period of reference to work abroad. In this way, these insurance companies, as well as their family members, no longer have the obligation to extend the importance of the certificate each year, to give themselves additional costs, do not have to return to the country every year to get a new certificate, but will be valid all the time as long as the contract on work and confirmation of abroad stays. This makes it more effective to exercise the right to the health care of this population. As for the residence of Serbian citizens in private management abroad, this certificate is certified for a period of 90 days, under Article 64, and the importance of this change law remains the same as it has so far. In particular, it should be pointed out that the rights of pregnant women and maternity women are also improved in cases of payment of financial compensation for sickness, i.e. temporary prevention due to illness or complications during pregnancy. What's really going on? The Republic Health Insurance Fund will now pay directly to the employer's account, which means not on the individual's account, so that the employer will be able to pay at the same time those 35% received from the Republic and 65% of the earnings he pays for a certain month, thus avoiding a delay in the payment of compensation for pregnant women, which so far is between three and four months. The aim of this law is primarily to provide a high level and quality of health care and health for Serbian citizens, without additional funding. The second law put on the agenda today is the Law amending the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. The question can be asked – why is he on the agenda today? First of all, it should be said that a period of 12 months from the date of entry into force of the current law has been established, that a public procurement procedure has been implemented for the purposes of the Integrated Health Information System which, unfortunately, has not yet been completed, since many complaints have been made, so that it is not possible to adopt rules for the implementation of this law in the prescribed legal period, since the rules should have been fully applicable since 1 January 2016, under Article 60, with the law on health records in the field, as well as the Law on health care records, which would seriously jeopardise the functioning of the health system in the whole. So, because of this not to occur, and this law on amendments to the Health Documentation and Records Act in the area of health, with an extension from 12 to 24 months, that's Article 58. The law, so that this law could be applied as of 1 January 2017, so that the health system can function uninterruptedly. The reasons for the adoption, and there are many, the law on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act are the following. First of all, I would point out that the existing law so far has established that the founder of the clinical hospital center is the city. By amending this law, the clinical hospital centre, in addition to secondary health care, which is of special importance to the Republic and which also implies a high level of equipment and, accordingly, the founding rights of the KBC, should be exercised by the Republic, not the city. In this way, the possibility of capital investment by the Republic is also realized and the improvement of the conditions for performing health activities is improved, therefore, and the quality of services, which is normal. By taking over founding rights, it is necessary, in doing so, to provide funding from the budget, as well as funds for investment investments. It is very important here to point out that the proposed solutions in the law will not create additional costs for patients. Only additional costs will be generated for the Republic of Serbia's budget, amounting to 150m dinars, which are otherwise defined for 2016. If we look at it in the long term, it means in the long term, these funds are minimal compared to the positive effects that Serbian citizens will get by increasing the quality of services. As for the last executive staff at the clinical and hospital centre, since the founder of the Republic is the director, their deputies, board members of the board of directors and supervisors, is appointed and resolved by the government. As regards the statutes of the clinical hospital centre and the Ministry of Health Protection of MuP Workers, consent to their statutes is granted and approved exclusively by the Government. The city, i.e. local self-government should continue to be the founder of primary health institutions, which are homes of health and pharmacy, which has so far been the case of their jurisdiction. I'd like to say a few words about the specialization of foreign citizens. In addition, these amendments also include a more comprehensive legislative solution related to the specialisation of foreign citizens coming to Serbia, so that the competent ministry of the country from which a foreigner is working there, as his regular profession, can grant a candidate specialisation or subspecialisation by enrolling directly at one of the colleges of health professions, based on an agreement between our two governments. This is why foreign citizens in Serbia are no longer in charge of the resolution health ministry. As for medical associates' licences from different areas of staff in a health care institution, they should be licensed in competent chambers or associations, not in health care workers' chambers. Under four, I would single out that healthcare professionals and healthcare associates, as well as other persons who carry out health work in accordance with the law, full-time, can carry out certain tasks from their profession with another employer, but out of working time, in such a way as to conclude supplementary work contracts that, within 15 days, have to be delivered to a health inspection which, hopefully, will work properly and carry out controls properly and as prescribed. In this way, the proposed legal solution also lays down the Institute of Complementary Work. All these three amendments laws are essential because they contribute to better functioning of the health system in general, as well as to achieving a better and more efficient health protection for Serbian citizens. In Voting Day, the SNS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this set of health laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43259	I thank you, Mr. Babic. The word has Dr. Ninoslav Girić. Here you go, Mr. Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43260	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, of course, I now have the risk of repeating many of the things that are said here today, but it is not burning to repeat them because all these changes that are being made and this amendment law on changes and additions applies to better quality of health services and better organisation of health professions in Serbia. We therefore have three draft laws on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance and Documentation Act in the field of health care. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, it has been repeatedly said here that it is foreseen that the clinical and hospital centres whose founder, under the current law, was a city, under this Amendments and Supplements proposal of the Law will be, of course, the Republic, given that the founder of a health institution is at the secondary and territorial level of the Republic, and that secondary and therapeutic health care activities are being carried out in clinical centres. By doing so, those rights will be taken over by the Republic. Of course, it is said here that there is a legal basis for further investment in the clinic, which will improve health services at the level of clinical hospital centres. It is also understood that by taking over founding rights it is also assumed that management or directors, deputy directors, board of directors and supervisory boards are resolved and appointed by the government, and that the statute of clinical and hospital centres gives consent to the government of Serbia. Then, it is said here that this bill regulates the Ministry of Health of the State in which, for example, a stranger performs health care, in professional terms, to approve specialisation or narrow specialisation, in accordance with the law, and that such a candidate directly enrolls in the university of health professions in the Republic of Serbia, all these procedures would be established by mutual agreement. There were a lot of words about the supplemental work that, of course, was in line with the Labour Law. Therefore, a healthcare professional, a health associate, and another person employed in health care may work additionally with another employer up to a maximum of one-third of the working time, which means work from his profession. This work can be carried out by concluding a contract with another employer, it is required to inform the parent employer where he is full-time, and within 15 days, so there is a time limit, he must deliver a copy of the health inspection, above all to establish full control of the supplementary work. As regards the implementation of this law, additional funding from the budget should be provided, as clinical hospital centres carry out highly specialised health work, which includes both the most modern equipment and working conditions, as well as further investment investments. When it comes to the bill on health insurance, it concerns a few things. First of all, insurance companies referred to abroad, a certificate on the use of health care for insurance companies posted abroad, shall be issued for the period on which the insurance undertaking is sent to work. If the first-degree medical committee finds that there are problems related to the health status of the insurance undertaking, the certificate shall not be issued. These same rights are given to members of the rope family of the insurance company itself. Here it should be said that during a private stay abroad, a health protection certificate shall be given to the insurance undertaking for up to 90 days from the date of issue of the certificate. When it comes to temporary prevention of work due to illness or complications related to pregnancy, the law proposes that RFZO 35 % of the funds from the basis for profit compensation be paid directly to the employer. In this way, there will be no delay in payments and insurance, primarily for administrative reasons. The third law refers to amendments and additions to the law on residual documentation and records. Clearly, this deadline is also acceptable to extend the deadline for another 12 months, for reasons the minister himself explained. Given the discussion of all my colleagues, the SNS Parliamentary Group will support changes and amendments to this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43261	Thank you, Mr. Giric. The word is by MP Aleksandar Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43262	Dear Chairman, Dr. Aleksandar Pajovic. Dear Minister, Mr. Lonchar, Mr. Secretary of State, A century and honored gentlemen from the Ministry of Health, dear fellow Members of the People. We've heard more than once today about the laws we're discussing in the field of health care. These laws are always of interest to the MPs, as well as to our viewers, or our security guards. Today we heard that there are three amendments on the agenda to the three laws, so, the Health Security Act, the Health Insurance Act and the Health Documentation and Records Act. My colleagues have already explained in detail what these changes are, and I'm not going to touch that, to try and touch this topic from maybe another angle. The RS Health Ministry, as well as the entire government, at this time stepping towards the EU, must make many amendments and amendments to the law and address some of the problems it has already encountered. The change in the status of change, that the founding rights of clinical hospital centres are assumed by the Republic, instead of the city so far, I believe that this is something that is positive, which is good, to centralise management on such large institutions as clinical and hospital centres. They are simply health services in Serbia, clearly, on a secondary and therapeutic level, where they operate. We have to have the best equipment there, we have to have the best experts, in the end of the case, the clinical-patient centres and the teaching base of our medical and dental schools. Which is why I think this is still good positive. Because we are now in a phase of rationalising the number of health workers, both medical, non-medical workers, and in these large systems, it may have to be solved from one center, assuming that we have extra employees and medical and non-medical workers. In the previous period, one party led the Ministry of Health in four mandates, and perhaps this is the consequence of what this ministry and health institutions have found. Painful cuts must be performed, i.e. bitter bites. We had a rationalization of dentistry, it was an inevitability, we give up the people we need, the extra employees are one thing, and the needs and organizations of dental health care the other, maybe in the next period and we'll decide that at least those services that don't burden the budget, money services, stay in the homes of health, because our insurance companies are used to it, and they're safer in the health institution that they have dental care services, not wanting me to say anything bad about private offices this time. When something is done from one center, here is evidence of the current activity of the Ministry of Health, which has provided significant resources to hospitals and health homes throughout Serbia, and in my home of health where we are going to do cremation, rehabilitation of sanitary nodes, sewerage and water treatment networks, and this is important for improving working conditions and the conditions in which our insurance companies use health care. I note this as an idea, as a comprehensive activity of the Ministry of Health, which the health system looks at in one cell. The activity of clinical hospital centres from one center of observation is easier to see what needs are. What is the need for capital investment to be directed towards that clinical hospital center where it is most needed. Health homes, they're at the level of local self-government, and the Ministry of Health is giving health care resources, and we're fighting in local self-government to get something out of these funds, and mostly we have support from local self-government, so we fit it all into one system. In part two, what would I comment on, the Health Protection Act, that's the so-called. Excessive work, i.e. to simplify, therefore, work in private practice. So the point is that a full-time worker with one employer is the assumption that, mostly in public health institutions, he can conclude a contract with another employer for a third of his time. Essentially, in all of this is a contract that must be made transparent, and there the Ministry of Health enters a slippery, difficult terrain and indeed support it in all of this. On one occasion, I will briefly, Professor Migovic, from the Theological Faculty, when asked about the price of the priest's services, he said - just don't ask me that. So this is also a sensitive subject that has come boldly into getting rid of it. We have two positions here. On the one hand, we have our citizens who can give their own staff for their comfort, for their health, to read the doctor's private office. And on the other hand, we have doctors, surely private practice must exist, if someone is professional, let them, even after working time, make their contribution to the health of citizens. Not to mention those bold ones who only work in private offices. So, the Ministry goes into one project, one hard road, to get all that legal into normal frames, and then it's definitely going to be okay. It is normal for doctors to work in health care institutions, have to make their contribution at their workplace, and then to another employer. These laws we're talking about today, to mention and amend and supplement the Health Insurance Act. They've already talked about what's going on. I just note that the state is seriously entering this problem of the health care of our citizens who are abroad. The state intervenes for other situations, and this time shows seriousness, so that citizens who are directed to work abroad will have health care, i.e. confirmation of the use of healthcare for the entire period of their stay, as well as their families, clearly, previously with one medical belief that they are medically capable of work. If our citizens go abroad and they will have health care for up to 90 days. Here's a few minutes on those changes to the law. We expect a health care law where we all try to make our contribution. It's one issue sensitive and very important in every country, clearly and in ours. We'll back this bill in voting day. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43263	I thank Dr. Pajovic. The People's Messenger Aleksandar Radojevic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Jezimir Vučetic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43264	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be brief, since I think my predecessors have said a lot, that we would not repeat ourselves and that we would not be bored with those who look at us and whose name we are trying to bring here some improvements in the health system. When you impoverished the state, in that country, the poor and the health care. A number of troubles have followed this country and health care in this country for the last 20 years, but it seems to me that what's been going on in the last 12-13 years has been done to the health system, so we've inherited it here or taken over a very ruined one. The minister himself initially cited the example of the U.S. hospital and the famous magnetic resonance. There are many “Using hospitals. ” There's one of them in Chačka. We had one scanner, so after a year, nothing was caused, we got another new scanner, 2007 and 2008. The first one we could barely get, and the second one was the government, nothing caused it, sent it itself, and then we barely built a room to mount it. And both of these new scanners, I think today they only have a shell of those original parts, they've been replaced multiple times by software and heads and all the vitals that were on them. And imagine, they were both new. It happened similarly in my chest room with a new, most modern X-ray, which today, I'm sure, only has that tin armor. All the parts were replaced, they were changed, and when they were correct, they were mostly changed when they were correct. And on my own on duty, I found invoices for the repair of that same X-ray that were dated the day after tomorrow. So the repairman hated coming on that day when he had to do something, but two days before, he delivered the invoice that someone was supposed to pick up on Monday to pay for his work. So this boast and neglect went into an unsuspecting situation. To my intervention with the commander at the time, no one did anything about it. Along the way, I'd like to point out that this was the time when the film development machine was stolen, so that the door had to be removed from the room where it was built. So, seven or eight years ago, no one even tried to find out where that development machine is or those vital parts of that X-ray. Now that you take movies from the 2001 or 2002 archives, they are incomparably better quality than those that are now being made on that same serviced x-ray. Those absurdities are likely to list any of us who work in health care for several hours. But if we don't repeat ourselves on that subject, I won't talk about it anymore. It would be good for someone to be interested in where all these expensive parts of equipment or expensive equipment end up, because when you get something that's cheap, the type of masks or small purchases, nobody's interested and nobody's too interested in it. What is important in recording and in this delaying application of the Law on the Management of Medical Records is the savings achieved in the way in which savings should be made. So, from some offer, if I understood the minister well, of six million, there was an offer of three million euros. So three million are saved and three million can also be used to send all patients abroad or to treat rare diseases, without going public, under quotes, to get some money for our poor fellow citizens who need to use expensive and rare medicines, for rare diseases, or to operate outside. This is the way to support health savings and should work in this way, but there are no other ways to go, as is happening in some regional centres where I belong, western Serbia or my hospital in Cačka, which saves at the expense of patients. In fact, 13,000 patients last year were less examined in Chačka, five or seven patients experienced some banal infections that were either completed legally, or people could barely get away with ordinary salmoneosis or similar diseases. These are some things that are not good and are not affirmative, and I think the answer to that question is in the first question asked by the minister here – who, where and how much he works, and I would say and – who, how much he works and how he manages the field. Regardless of all the efforts invested in the ministry, if the right people are not chosen by the hierarchical authorities on the ground, I am not sure that the effects of the ministry can be visible and tangible and those who are called service users, patients, and those who need medical attention every day. There are many of these examples, that some of our personnel on the ground are unable to track the rhythm that the ministry has started to implement on various forms of organization of protection or procurement of equipment or savings, the introduction of information systems or the very changes to the law. Of course, in such conditions, regarding supplemental work, there is also what can be called the source of corruption, because in the poored state and the poored doctors, sisters, patients, they try to earn some money more, and then they do extra work. I really think it's a good thing that these amendments of the law now have records, that inspectors have records where, who and how much he works, did he do as many patients at his workplace as he had to do at the state institution, and after that, he did additional work, or he was just at his job in the state's office, someone who scheduled checks in the private office. As long as there is no information system, and until we know in the head of every patient, every doctor, every diagnosis, and every prescribed therapy, I don't think the ministry, no matter how hard they try, will be able to seduce order into this health care system, and therefore I really support the introduction of an information system that will be able to meet all these challenges. I will take a brief look at what I said was very important, that is, said the minister, who, where and how much he works, and I would add - who, where and how he manages. When you have remote health centres, such as mine, and then there are some election directors, I think it's good to pay attention to people who make board members, for example, not to be members of the board of directors just finished students who are unemployed or doctors who are unemployed or who are working for a certain few months, which is currently happening and is currently on the hospital board in Chačka. Or, that people who ran some companies that were giants in their time, and since the day before, they've been on the bankruptcy list, and these people are even procedurally prosecuted by judicial authorities, that such people aren't exactly representative people for boards, besides all those colleagues who have dignity and a name in a Chacan hospital or in another hospital, who have the titles of professors and have experience, that they don't find room to be members of a board of directors of one such institution. I'm not even sure it's good to have more lawyers than a doctor, but I can't support that in one institution you don't have any chiefs, no services as a member of the board of directors, no respected university professor, and there are Cachan, thank God, both in Belgrade and in retirement in Cačka, who may be and have been formerly, members of the hospital board. I think that way we can break the reputation of our professions and what the ministry is doing, because it certainly can't be followed by everyone on the ground. No one can do that without an adequate information system and without adequate records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43265	Thank you. The People's Messenger Jezdimir Vučetic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Peranovic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Vuketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43266	Dear Chairman, thank you for your time. Dear Ministers, respected co-workers of the minister, distinguished fellow MPs, dear Serbian citizens, have recently passed several health laws in this legislature. Today we are discussing a set of laws in this area again. There is a high engagement and commitment of the Ministry of Health, headed by Mr. Loncar and his associates, in order to raise the health care system, perhaps the most important segment of every society, more order, discipline, improved working conditions and thus quality of health care and its availability to a maximum level for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. This set of laws, regardless of their reformation, as one of the opposition colleagues put it, will make a significant contribution to these intentions. Obviously, someone under reforms means revolution, which requires big money in health care, but after all, someone had 15 years to do something, so he didn't. This ministry has done some things in just a year and a half. I would focus only on the draft Law amending the Health Protection Act, which brings newspapers into several segments, and concerns the system of organisation of health institutions and the rights of healthcare professionals and health associates, which will be a function of improving the quality of health services. Putting clinical and hospital centres under the authority of the Republic, as founder, is quite a logical move. In the current Law, the status of clinical and hospital centres was practically not regulated enough, i.e. it was illogical. In Article 48 of the existing Law, founder of General Hospital, Special Hospital, etc., is the Republic, and founder of the Clinical Hospital Centre, City. The institutions carrying out health work on a number of levels, seduction, or dealing with sensitive activities, such as emergency aid, serum production and vaccines, organ transplants, etc., were also under the authority of the state, i.e. under the authority of the state. Clinical and hospital centres, which, in addition to the conditions laid down by the law on secondary health care, carry out highly specialised health work, a tertiary level, which includes a high level of equipment and a high level of education professional staff, should long have been placed in the jurisdiction of the state, as founder, with great delay this law is proposed. It's a little weird that it hasn't been done much before. The adoption of founding rights at clinical and hospital centres by the Republic provides a legal basis for capital investments by the Republic, which improves the conditions for the activity of these institutions, which is of particular importance for the Republic. The second segment of this law is a proposal for amendments relating to the Institute of Supplemental Work in the Health System. The supplemental work of health workers from the time the idea of it came to life until today is focused on interest and analysis, as well as conflicting opinions and attitudes. Basic doubts and objections concern the possibility of abuse through such a form of work and damage to the state health system and patients. Abuses are quite possible, but with good organisation of work in health institutions, control and capable management, such abuses can be almost eliminated. In addition, the most experienced, high-quality health care staff, who gained some authority with their work and quality in patients and citizens, are almost the most experienced. Such personnel in the home institution are mostly carriers of quality and progress. With incomes that a poor state, such as Serbia, may be able to afford, it is difficult for long periods to preserve motives for the work of such experts. Therefore, supplemental work as an alternative to leaving the country brings mutual benefits for the state, for patients and of course for these healthcare professionals and associates. Let us remember a period not far behind us and a system in which the idea of private work itself was heresy. But let's remind ourselves that while the workers were working in factories, in factories, in the afternoon, it was also done in private workshops, it was farmed. And as a rule, such workers who worked together, therefore, both in the morning and afternoon, were, as a rule, among the best workers in their parent factories and companies. Complementary work must have been an exorcised solution. Additional efforts for those who do so, the concern of the state from possible abuses, but it is certainly benefits are much greater than possible damage and the most important citizen, a patient, must not be damaged. This can be achieved by adequate organisation, control, inspection. This type of health care service will not certainly be available to all citizens, patients, probably until the full integration of private health care into the health system of the state. It will be, however, we must admit, the privilege of those who want for their health and can give extra funds, and it certainly does not need to be denied, as we have become accustomed to some people driving “Audia”, and some “Fiæa”, so we must also accept the fact that someone can afford the means to go into a private office. It's crucial that it be a free choice of patients, not coercion. This bill correctly regulates this area, and sublaws will most likely further regulate this very sensitive issue, such as supplemental work. Furthermore, the bill also regulates some areas that were inadequately regulated by previous legislation, such as health care workers' licenses and specialisation of foreign citizens in our country. So the solutions offered by this law are quite correct and adequate. The new law proposes as a more comprehensive and efficient solution, that the Ministry of Health of the State, where, when we talk about specializations of foreign citizens, in which the parties perform health work as a profession, bring such a solution and ask the candidate to enroll directly on some of our health professions in the Republic of Serbia. The proposal for this law, as well as the proposals for the Health Insurance Act and the Health Registration Act, are certainly a new step towards improving health care and health insurance for our citizens. All compliments to the Ministry of Health and full support for the efforts it makes and the voice of support for these legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43267	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word has been given by MP Aleksandar Peranovic, and let the MP of the people, Vladica Dimitrov, be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43268	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens watching the Serbian Assembly, we have three proposals for legal solutions from the area of health, and at the very beginning I must say that this is the Ministry's willingness to deal with all the problems that have arisen from previous years, while the Ministry led by some other government, or structure. I'm going to start with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, which says the Ministry of Health is facing supplemental work where healthcare professionals can spend a third of their working time in private practice. This is a sensitive topic, and this is the Ministry of Health and the current government headed by Prime Minister Vukic is ready to solve all serious problems and essential problems, according to today's address by Minister Loncar, who said that many hospitals in Serbia have problems, but this will be resolved in the coming period. We've also heard from colleagues from Uzic, from Chačka, from my city, many such cities and such situations. The other thing is that founding acts, i.e. clinical centres, cross from the authority of the city, or locals in the Republic, and that's a great story where both the Ministry and the Government and the State will eventually have insight and control over all these institutions. At yesterday's session of the Committee, me and Professor Vekic spoke along the way as to how the system used to function when we had health centres. It was much better then than when they got divorced, when it broke up and now you have, let me say, in every municipality, in every city of general hospitals and homes of health where there's no telling who's drinking who's paying, people's words. The second law is about medical records, documentation. One technical thing, where it moves from 2016 to 2017, is to meet modern information technologies, with the Internet, something that really needs to be done and done to make everything available to those most vulnerable categories, which are patients. The third legal solution, the proposal, is insurance companies on temporary work abroad, I don't know what to say, until there's a great solution, where people don't have to go back there to come back to do what they need to do, but at first, they can do it all the time. The other thing is that insurance companies that have preventions for work, diseases, complications in pregnancy, for these 35% and 65%, means 100% of payments go to the employer. We won't have a situation for one of them to pay like this, the other to pay like that, everything will be in one place, a reduced administration. We all know that today in Serbia as little paper as possible, that's better. The government, the current one, with Prime Minister Vucic, is doing this the best way. I'll look back on why this is now, why isn't it before? Yesterday and today, we had criticism of something that has historically come to Serbia, which is the opening of the chapter. We heard from opposition MPs that we were three years late. Gentlemen, we are late for your 15 years as head of this country and where you just threw dust in the eyes of the citizens of Serbia and did nothing. The current government solves the stage by step, solves all the burning problems, and this Ministry is ready to deal with all the problems, with the most difficult things and to solve them successfully. Like my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I will support these laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43269	I thank Dr. Peranovic. The word is Dr Vladica Dimitrov, and let the MP Branimir Rancic be prepared, as the last reported debater. Here you go, Dr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People and Honored Citizens are now on the agenda of three health laws - Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, the Law on Health Documentation and Records and the Health Protection Act. I'll take a few sentences on each of these suggestions. As far as the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act is concerned, here are the two members: 66th and 96th. In Article 66, the certificate of use of health care for an insurance undertaking referred to abroad shall be issued for a period for which the insurance undertaking has been sent to work abroad and an earlier provision has been amended which has been defined that insurance companies have to withdraw certificates each year, which saves both time and money and people unnecessarily are not harassed, so this is a logical change which may have happened a little earlier. As regards Articles 96 and these amendments, the word “security” is replaced by the word “employer” in Article 96 of this Law. This is about the funds, so 35% of the funding from the maternity benefits, which the Republic budget transfers to the Health Insurance Fund, and this one directly to the insurance companies. Since this is about pregnant women, and since we all have the same attitude here that they all have to accept 100% of their benefits for pregnant women and that they all have to have that compensation once a month and that they have no problems in determining the rate of income tax, I am inclined to accept any proposal that would lead to this solution, even the proposals that I have heard, which is that these funds are transferred to the RFZO, and that they can essentially carry out their rights in full, and that they do not have any harassment. As far as the Health Documentation and Records Act is concerned, the amendments refer to Article 58, which replaces "12 months" with the words "24 months". The proposer clearly stated in the explanation the reasons why it would take a deadline to extend the regulation by another 12 months. I've also looked at the amendments, which even suggest we extend this deadline by an additional 12, which means another 24 months. I think it's wiser for us to keep the deadline extended for 12 months. There is always a chance in Serbia that this deadline will be further broken, but there is also the same chance that the deadline will be broken again, given that our workers are thinking they have enough time and that the job will end there before the end. So I'm willing to support this change, an additional 12 months, even if we extend the additional deadline next year, because I think it's going to be this much shorter. Finally, the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act deals with two very important topics. The first are the clinical and hospital centres and the founders of these centres, and the second is the complementary work of health workers and associates. It was not logical at the clinical hospital centres that so far the founder was a local self-government, when we know that those health care services provided from secondary and tertiary levels of health care are of national importance. Here you mentioned that there was not enough investment and the minister made it very clear that neither the last authorities in Belgrade invested enough funds in development nor infrastructure, nor equipment in the clinics. I can say that local self-government, especially the city of Belgrade, will never have enough resources, especially for services that are of national importance, that the Republic will always be a much better mother than it would be a city. On the other hand, you must bear in mind that all local self-governments, and those from which I come, watch the Republic's funds be spent, especially where the Ministry of Finance spills over to institutions that are the founders of local self-government, including the city of Belgrade. Of course, all local self-government is exactly what they expect in this case, so it is very logical if the clinical-patient centres already provide health services of national importance at secondary and territorial levels of health services, that it is logical to just move under the founder of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the doctor's extra work is concerned, I must say this and welcome the Ministry and Minister, I think this is one of the first steps towards setting up this area. This is reform already. A member has been changed here, very important. So this is where Article 199 is deleted. Article 199 is deleted from the previous law, and in this previous law, it states: supplemental work under Article 1 of this Article may be carried out by an employer with whom a healthcare professional, a health associate, or another employee, has completed a full-time contract, or by another employer only provided that the work of a healthcare professional, a health associate, etc. does not affect the organisation of work. And here we have come to a very important basis for abuses, which is that there is no clear criterion, there is no objective measurable criterion by which the manager determines whether the additional work of a doctor in any privateer affects or does not affect the work, i.e. the organisation of work in the home health institution, which created the basis for coercion, coercion, abuse for political purposes or any other purpose by the director. Now this law very clearly defines how a health worker, can do work with a private employer. Simply signed contract and application within 15 days to the health inspector. This is very important, although I have heard that the opposition, or individual representatives of the opposition, disagree with it, is nevertheless the fact that individual owners of private offices do not report all contracted workers. There's not enough health inspectors, probably, to control all that. On the other hand, a health care professional who is obliged to apply himself within 15 days, or a contract on supplementary work, undertakes, I say, those honest people who will not risk a profession or work in the public health care department to avoid reporting it. So that, on the one hand, will allow the ministry to have one true picture of the health situation in Serbia, that is, where and where it is being organised, where it is being performed and where the primate is placed, and, on the other hand, this second step, which the minister announced and which, of course, will follow, will allow that work, which, in some cases, has to be recognised, is more valuable, not more valued than more paid than working in a state institution, will, of course, be taxed, and these funds will be used for certain things, such as treating children with cancer, or treating children who have suffered from rare syndromes. Generally, when I look at all these changes, some of them are logical, and some are also reformal, with suggestion, when it comes to the compensation for pregnancy, that it must be resolved in the most appropriate way, that pregnant women be satisfied in this regard. Of course, I support and welcome these suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43271	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Branimir Rancic, as the last reported debater. Here you go, Mr. Ranch.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43272	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Bečić, the Honorable Ministers, Mr Lončar, the Honorable Professor Vekić, with his co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, presently there are draft laws on amendments and amendments to the health law, and this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Documentation and Records. Addressing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will remain only at the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act, in the section of the monitoring and control of the application of additional work institutes in the field of health care. The proposed legal solutions are reorganised by the Institute of Supplemental Work in the Health System. So far, the practice points to numerous gaps that have occurred and are still happening, some with fatal outcomes, in private offices, precisely because the instrument of complementar work control has not worked. We are witnessing that the largest number of private health facilities is in the immediate vicinity of state institutions, state hospitals, which indicates the possibility of working in private offices and during regular working hours. In this way, opportunities were created for a number of corrupt health care activities, i.e. treating patients. A new legislative solution is amended by Article 199 and a new Article 6 provides that a health worker, a health associate, as well as another person employed in a health institution, i.e. private practice and another legal person, who performs health care work in accordance with the law, which is full-time, may carry out certain tasks from his profession with another employer outside of regular working time by concluding a supplemental contract with another employer for a total duration of one-third of the working time. What is very important is that the completion of the supplemental work contract with the other employer is a health worker, that is, an associate who is obliged to inform the director of a health institution in which he works full-time. Second, a health institution, i.e. private practice, is required to keep records of the contracts on supplementary work they have concluded. One copy of the original contract for supplemental work of a healthcare professional, the associate delivers a health inspection within 15 days of the date of adoption of the contract and in order to control the performance of supplementary work in the field of health care. This legal solution deletes the members of the 200 and 201th and the supplementary work in the healthcare system is in line with the provisions of the Labour Act. To conclude, this creates conditions for the monitoring and control of the application of supplementary work institutes in the field of health care. In the voting day, with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I will vote to mention a set of health laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43273	I thank you, Mr. Rancic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43274	I just want to let you know, since there were some who said that the government would not resolve the issue of a solid maternity tax, that the government at today's session, held at 1400 hours, decided that the tax would not be paid, issued an order to the Ministry of Finance to sit down with the maternity associations tomorrow and to solve the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-16-0.u43275	I thank you, Mr. Lonchart. I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda. I thank Minister Loncar and his cabinet for participating in today's session. I thank all the MPs and continue tomorrow at 10.00.
