ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29522	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the ninth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vanja Vukic, Stefana Miladanovic, Branko Ružic, Dubravka Filipovski. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search with proposals for acts in points 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's meeting by Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic; Zoran Djordjevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence; Major General Bojan Zrnić, head of the Department of Defence Technology at the Department of Material Resources at the Ministry of Defence and Captain of the Battleship Milan Konjikovac, Head of the International Military Co-operation Administration at the Ministry of Defence. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 170(1) and Article 192(3), and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military-technical co-operation; Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus in co-operation in the field of defence; Proposal for a decision adopting the Annual Plan for the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of a member of Serbia in multinational operations in 2015. Does the defence minister, Defence Minister Branislav Gasic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29523	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military-technical co-operation, signed in Belgrade on 16 October 2014. The Agreement first and foremost defines areas of co-operation, and thus the Governments of the two States, namely their authorised bodies, will co-operate in the fields of arms and military equipment delivery, spare parts and devices for military use, provision of services in the field of military-technical cooperation, exchange of experts and training of personnel as well as in the process of designing and producing military goods. The agreement provides for separate contracts to be negotiated to develop military-technical co-operation. The Parties will also form an Intergovernmental Commission for Military Technical Co-operation in order to implement that Agreement. Provisions establishing the basic rules on the exchange and protection of classified information during the implementation of the Agreement, as well as provisions on the protection, use and storage of intellectual property, are also an integral part of the proposed Agreement. The final provisions of the Agreement provide for ways in which possible disputes, amendments and additions of the Agreement will be resolved, as well as the way in which it enters into force. This agreement is being concluded for a period of five years, and the way they are extended has been regulated. It is also envisaged that the proposed Agreement ceases to apply to agreements between the federal government, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Russian Federation government on military-technical co-operation signed in Moscow on 3 December 1997. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that the National Assembly approve the proposed Agreement, namely a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on military-technical co-operation. Today, before you and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on co-operation in the area of defence, signed in Minsk on 10 November 2014. The entry into force of that Agreement creates a legal basis for the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence, as well as other forms of co-operation in the area of defence for which the parties are interested. The Agreement contains areas and forms of co-operation, provides for the possibility of developing co-operation in areas of common interest through the conclusion of specific contracts in accordance with the Agreement in question, the provisions on the protection of classified information and the costs incurred during their implementation, medical protection and disciplinary responsibility. The agreement provides for ways to address possible disputes, changes and additions, how it enters into force, period of validity and cancellation. Cooperation in defence with the Republic of Belarus can be seen as good, with the possibility of further intensifying and improving, and in order to achieve the forms of co-operation mentioned, it is necessary to conclude a general defence co-operation agreement, which would legally regulate those issues in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Contract Law and the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. I propose that the National Assembly ratify the proposed Agreement, i.e. to vote on a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Belarus on co-operation in the area of defence. Also today, before you and the proposal for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015, which the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, under the law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, developed in co-operation with the Ministry of Interior, as well as a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015. The defence ministry planned to continue its engagement in seven UN peacekeeping operations in Congo, Liberia, Côte d'Ivoire, Cyprus, Lebanon, the Middle East and the Central African Republic in 2015 and four multinational EU operations in Somalia, the Central African Republic, Mali, in Somalia, we have two peacekeeping operations. I am taking this opportunity to inform that the mandate of the EU military operation in the Central African Republic was completed on 15 March 2015, as well as that the four-member Serbian military team successfully completed its engagement in that operation on 10 March 2015. In addition to the number of multinational operations, the proposal for an annual plan to use Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations for 2015 includes seven UN peacekeeping operations in the Western Sahara, the Republic of Mali, Jamu and Kashmir, South Sudan, Sudan and the Middle East, in which Serbia's military has so far failed to participate, as one multinational EU operation in the Central African Republic. The introduction of these seven UN peacekeeping operations into the proposal for an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 does not mean the imminent start of participation of members of the Serbian Army in them, but rather the conditions for meeting the obligations of the Republic of Serbia stemming from the concluded Memorandum of Understanding, of course, if our party receives a call from the UN for engagement in any of the 14 UN peacekeeping operations contained in the proposal for an annual plan for the use of the Serbia Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015. The possible start of Serbia's military engagement in these missions was planned on the basis of a Memorandum of Understanding between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN on the contribution and system of the UN's stand-by arrangement, concluded in November 2011, establishing the resources of the Serbian Army, the Sanitary Team, military observers and staff officers, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has made available to the UN in the event of a need for field engagement. During 2015, only a certain start of the engagement of the Serbian Army's Sanitary Team in the EU military-sanction mission in the Central African Republic will follow the adoption of a decision by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In 19 multinational UN and EU operations in 2015, up to 670 members of the Serbian Army were scheduled to join 357 positions. The proposal for an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 did not plan for a more significant increase in Serbia's military engagement beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia, but rather for retaining the level of engagement achieved, which is conditioned by the means available. The necessary financial resources to implement the proposal for an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 amounted to 1.335,282.985 dinars. The total amount for the participation of members of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army needs 1,244,318,000 dinars. The defence ministry has provided 847.462,000 dinars, and a difference of 396.856,000 dinars will be provided with compensations that the UN will pay to the defence ministry on behalf of participation in multinational operations in 2015. The legal, i.e. constitutional framework for the adoption of an annual plan is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which are prescribed that the National Assembly adopts general acts under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, or the decision, as well as to consider and adopt an annual plan of use to carry out planned multinational operations in the current year. In addition to the above, the constitutional basis for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015 indicates a provision of Article 140. The Constitution, which found that the Serbian Army could be used outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, or Article 8. The law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which are prescribed that the National Assembly decide on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in these operations. The involvement of members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations is an important element of our country's foreign policy. By participating in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia shows that it is an active factor in preserving international peace and security, confirms its own reputation and strengthens confidence in Serbia's military in the international environment. The Republic of Serbia through participation in multinational operations strengthens its own defence capacities and national security, and increasingly intensive participation in EU operations in the framework of common security and defence policy contributes to the approximation of the Republic of Serbia's membership in the EU. I am taking this opportunity to inform you that, in co-operation with the Ministry of Defence, a report on the implementation of the annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2014, which was delivered to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for adoption and forwarded to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I would inform you that in March of this year, I had the opportunity to personally visit the Serbia Army contingent engaged in a military hospital of level two in the UN Peace Operation in the Central African Republic and make sure that members of the Serbian Army are performing the tasks at an extremely high level, which is worthy of Serbia's military and the Republic of Serbia. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose that the National Assembly decide on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 and a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29524	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) The word has the People's MP Mr. Djordje Kosanic, as the first reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29525	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us is a joint single search of the first two decisions on the participation of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 and the second, a decision on participation in multinational operations in 2015 and two agreements, a military agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Belarus. In the beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group will certainly support the two decisions mentioned, as well as the two agreements mentioned. First, speaking of multinational operations in 2015, it should be said that the participation of Serbian military members in peacekeeping operations is not only of interest to the defence system, but also to the state interest, aimed at strengthening our foreign-political capacity. Starting in 1948, when the UN sent the first mission to the Middle East, as many as 68 missions were launched today. Currently around 93,000 soldiers, 17,000 civilians and 13,000 police officers from as many as 120 countries are active in the world. As for members of the defence ministry, they will participate this year in 19 peacekeeping operations and members of the MUP in four peacekeeping operations. So the proposed plan envisions the participation of up to 670 members of the Serbian Army and 18 members of the MUP in multinational operations under the auspices of the UN and the EU. I need you to tell me what these are operations. As for the MUP, it will participate in UN peacekeeping operations in Liberia, Haiti, Cyprus and the EU civilian crisis management mission. As for the Serbian Army, it will take part in Congo, Liberia, the Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Cyprus, the Central African Republic, the Western Sahara, the Republic of Mali, Jam and Kashmir, South Sudan, as well as two operations in Sudan and the Middle East. The involvement of Serbia's military and other forces in EU and UN multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia clearly shows that it is an active factor of peace and security in the world. Also, engagement in peace operations provides clear and firm proof of the continuity and foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which advocates peaceful resolution of all disputes in the world, and is also an important element of the external policy of the Republic of Serbia, which greatly contributes to treating the Republic of Serbia as an equal partner in relation to EU and UN Member States. Given that there is an increasing number of crisis hotspots and armed conflict in the world today, multinational operations have become increasingly important. Serbia is certainly taking continued measures to increase its participation in multinational operations. It is no secret that both members of the military and members of the MUP are very interested in participating in these multinational operations and members of the Serbian Army and the MUP in multinational operations in practice believe experience gained so far and share experience with members of the armed forces of other countries. In addition, they are familiar with standard operating procedures, which in perspective facilitates the integration of our forces into multinational compositions and adapts to the way we work according to world standards. It is worth saying how much our “blue helmets ” are appreciated in the world. This shows that many times in many missions are decorated. Minister, if I am not mistaken, the latest in a series is the award of our 68 members of the Serbian contingent "blue helmets" in the UN mission in the Central African Republic. At the very end, regarding these two decisions, JS will support them in the voting day, but I want to say that we are not a big country, we are a small country, we do not have any major political influence, but by safely participating in such missions, we contribute to the preservation of peace and security in land zones in the world. Returning to two agreements, the first agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation, it should be said that this is a significant agreement for our military, to say, is like a roof contract for any future co-operation and negotiations on the modernisation of Serbia's Army, the purchase of equipment and spare parts. Minister, I really can't here, and not to mention, I think this is a great chance to realize in the coming period what we've been talking about for a long time, which is to make our skies safer, to finally get Migova 29m2, and it seems to me that we might be able to talk about both the system, not the system, not the F300 system, but the F400, where we would significantly increase the security of our sky. So that's something we need to talk about in the future, and I think we're going to be able to realize for sure. We've had good co-operation with Russia so far and without this roof contract, let's say, and that this co-operation is now expanding to military-medical, military-educated and military-technical. It is also very important to develop the dedicated industry, and I must remind myself that once in the old Yugoslavia, we were a very significant factor, as far as the dedicated industry is concerned, and I think we can do the same with this contract, and we can raise that part to a very higher level, to come to that, to say, segment and to that place that Serbia belongs in that part. When we talk about these agreements, I always like to get a little out of the box and say that every agreement, in any part, allows for co-operation in many other segments. As far as Russia and Serbia are concerned, we have an important agreement that I do not think we have taken advantage of so far. I think 99% of Serbian products can go to the Russian market and I think that's something we should think about in the next period. As for the second agreement between Serbia and Belarus, it should be said that it was signed in March this year in Minsk. Under the agreement, the two countries will improve bilateral co-operation in the military-economic and military-science areas, in the area of military education, military-medicine, training, etc. The document also says that the two sides will conduct official visits, meetings, exchange experiences, participate in conferences, symposiums, seminars, exchange the necessary information, documents, organise scientific and technological projects and participate in operational and combat activities as regards training. The agreement also envisions bilateral activities within international military co-operation and the establishment of a financial commitment by the two sides. Finally, I would like to say that in the voting day, the JS parliamentary group will support both these two agreements between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation and Belarus, as well as two decisions on multinational operations in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29526	The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29527	Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, we have two agreements ahead: an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation in military-technical co-operation and an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on co-operation in the area of defence. As for the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Zelena, we will support this ratification, handling the fact that both documents refer to military-technical co-operation based on mutual respect, trust and respect for the interests of these countries, but in the first place on the interests of the Republic of Serbia. As we have developed military-technical co-operation with EU countries, the United States, the Russian Federation and many other countries between 2008 and 2012, as we today believe it is important for the Republic of Serbia to have a legal framework for co-operation in the field of arms supply and military technology, other military goods for defence and security purposes. As regards the agreement with the Russian Federation, we absolutely support the delivery of spare parts, provision of services in the field of military-technical co-operation, design and production of goods, military purposes, exchange of experts in joint military-technical cooperation programmes, training of staff in educational institutions, consulting aid, etc. As for the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Belarus on co-operation in the field of defence, I am in a good position to contribute to peace and security in the world, and in order to strengthen trust and on the principles of equality and common interests. This, as well as the first agreement with the Russian Federation, I think it is important to say, will not affect the rights and obligations of any Contracting Party arising from international agreements with other countries or international organisations. So, we support the continuity of bilateral agreements policy when it comes to military-technical co-operation, military-science co-operation, military education and training, defence legislation, military medicine, peace operations, environmental protection in the context of military needs and other areas of common interest. As we have seen, in these agreements, i.e. contracts, these and similar agreements will be conducted through joint visits, working meetings, exchanges of experiences and consultations, participation in exercises, participation in conferences, symposiums, seminars, exchange of specific information and documents, research projects of mutual interest and other forms of co-operation agreed upon. Military-technical co-operation, co-operation in the area of defence, is a system that we have jointly improved on both bilateral and multinational levels through an important Partnership for Peace project, through a host of multinational operations in which Serbia participated as well as through bilateral agreements with individual countries. To that end and to that end, we will support these kinds of agreements. As for the decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015, I cannot help but remember earlier times when, unfortunately, some parties in power have made every effort to conclude such annual plans and such contracts, but regardless of which, during Boris Tadic's presidential term, we have managed to restore those important security but also political flows. We therefore welcome the participation of professional members of the Army of the Republic of Serbia and the MUP in multinational operations in 2015. This is how we participate and contribute to building, preserving peace in the region and the world. It's one of the three missions of the Republika Srpska Army. This makes a significant contribution to building an equal partnership with the UN member states and the EU. So we make this decision on the basis of the 2009 Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia. This decision, namely the plan, plans to include members of the UN Ministry of Defence in UN peacekeeping operations, in 14 UN missions and five EU missions. The minister mentioned some countries here, but I will read: the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of Liberia, the Republic of the Ivory Coast, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Lebanon, in the Middle East, the Central African Republic, the Western Sahara, Mali, Jamb and Kashmir, South Sudan and the Middle East, we have two missions, as you said, Mr Minister. As in EU missions, for training the security forces of Somalia, Mali, the Central African Republic. So, as I said, on 14 UN missions and five EU missions. In addition, members of the interior ministry are also planned to participate in UN peacekeeping operations in the Republic of Liberia, the Republic of Haiti and the Republic of Kpar, as well as in the EU civilian crisis management mission. All these missions have a specific structure, mandate, geopolitical significance, geographical and time-space. However, it is important to say that we, based on the 2009 law and the policy that we have established in this period of defence, are taking part in multinational operations. The participation of Serbia's military members in multinational operations, the UN and the EU, is an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia which greatly contributes to treating the Republic of Serbia in relations with the UN member states and the EU as an equal partner. The Republic of Serbia thus integrates into this important area of EU activity, while at the same time strengthening its security capacities on the road to EU membership. Besides, the MUP has direct benefits from police officers who return and enrich new experiences but also from contemporary knowledge and skills. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs will also support this decision to coordinate the annual plan for the use of the Republic of Serbia Army in multinational operations in 2015. In the end, Mr. Minister, I want to take advantage of your presence and ask one question that in some way has something to do with what we've been talking about. You saw yesterday that the Tax Administration announced the biggest debtors in Serbia. Unfortunately, among the biggest debtors are many companies from the military industry, from a military-industry complex that is strategically important to our economy. I think the data that was released yesterday is alarming and I'm asking a question -- what are you ministers, what is the Government of the Republic of Serbia doing, and what measures will it do to resuscitate the situation in the military industry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29528	Thank you. The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29529	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I thank Mr Bogdanovic for this question, and I will be very happy to answer when it comes to the debt of the dedicated industry. Before that, I'd just like to mention two things. I don't know who was defending or not defending you from 2000 to 2012 or against sending the Republic of Serbia military into peace operations, but for those 12 years, in 12 years, 314 members of the Serbian Army were sent to all the peacekeeping missions that were before you and proposed. In 2013, only 349 members of the Serbian Army were in peacekeeping operations, missions, and the UN and the EU. In 2014, 539 Serbian Army members, 2015, you saw for yourself, over 670 Serbian Army members. One aspect that we are not talking about today is to correct the social status of every member of the Serbian Army who returns from such a peace operation with one quality savings to call it that. Today, the Republic of Serbia is Serbia and last year, by sending this number of members of the Serbian Army to the seventh-place peacekeeping operation in Europe by the number of members in peace operations around the world. I'm talking to you about the number of members of the Serbian Army who have been sent to peace operations for two years. As for the debt of Serbia's dedicated industry published yesterday, and I am very surprised and very, I can't say scared but concerned about the debt that Serbia's dedicated industry has to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. But you must, for the sake of the public, for the sake of truth, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia to say that this is the debt that the factories of the dedicated industry made by 2012. I have and I can read to you what it is that the Zastava Arms factory, which since 1 January 2013, has calmly reconciled all its tax obligations, all the contributions and all the contributions it has to the Republic Administration of Income. What is yesterday and the increase in debt refers exclusively to interest for the period until 2012. Krusik regularly settles its obligations, tax obligations. The first five-year-old Triestenik intends to settle its obligations neatly, tax contributions from October 2014. So, no factory, do you want me to answer all the way? No factory of Serbia's dedicated industry is currently in debt except for the debt it was made by 2012. All its obligations are settled neatly and we can confirm that with orderly tax returns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29530	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29531	Dear guests from the Department of Defense, colleagues, if you would just let me turn to what you're saying now, Mr. Minister, you said in an interview you recently gave through a confession in one week that the purpose is not a tax debt, a quote. I know you need to show your size by accusing the past by 2012, and it all started to bloom by coming to your position, but unfortunately you know that it is not true, because the collapse of the defence system has just begun by coming to that position, and I think that the standard of the Serbian Army was never lower in the 21st century but now. If you don't know it, sit next to you if I'm not mistaken, so you can ask him what his personal income is, his budget, if what you're saying is really public. It wasn't my idea to talk about this, but you're always causing a reaction, so here we go. The Democratic Party will support both contracts, support the decisions that are today made before Serbian lawmakers for the simple reason that we consider it to be a good liquid, a liquid that was created before 2012. You didn't do this job at the time, you didn't do the defense in general, so they probably didn't inform you, but we think it's something that's the legacy of the former Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, at a time when the current parties were in power in the 1990s, this legacy was interrupted. We have become an importer of security from the security exporters in the world. We received peacekeeping missions in our territory, and then after 2000 we began to slowly return to the ranks of those countries that are capable, they have the capacity to say they export security. I'd like first to refer to the contract in military technical cooperation with the Russian Federation. We think it's extremely good, that it's something that needs to be approved and supported. Any contract that should help our dedicated or defence industry, our Serbian Army is welcome and will always be supported by the DS MPs. I think this is something that is completely natural given that the large amount of technique the Serbian Army and the MUP have are actually Russian origins and that's something that's positive. What I'd like to hear, to tell us, is our defense industry taking any kind of obligation under this contract? Do our defence, weapons and military equipment producers take any obligations, or is there any kind of swarming, I suppose you understand me, in relation to the production we have and will we have the obligation to pay that birth to our partners from Russia, which has not been the case so far? Or is this contract going to cost us money? It's not funny, it's a serious subject, there's no need to laugh. I'm asking because I'm worried about those factories you say fell apart by 2012, and they flourished in your government until 1999, 2000. We're all aware of how many flowers have grown into weeds. We also support the defence co-operation agreement with Belarus. I remind you that today, I believe that Serbia has practically from Kuwait to Great Britain with almost all EU countries and Europe contracts. Fortunately for you, we do not dispute these contracts here in parliament, as your colleagues disputed during the time you were an opposition. Your contracts bothered you. The contracts we have signed in the region have been traitorous to you, today they are perceived as positive and that is progress. That may be even more progress than the contract itself you signed, which we support. What I want to point out is that the Republic of Serbia has certain capacities in international politics. Certainly one of the greatest capacities Serbia has is Serbia's army and participation in peacekeeping operations outside our country's borders, along with the police. It's an extremely good thing for the military itself, for the ministry, for the government but also for the state. This raises the capacity, operational capabilities of the Serbian Army, as well as the capacity of our country itself. What is very important to stress is that Serbia has been participating in peacekeeping missions and with the EU since 2012, Mr. Minister, since that year is too fragile for you. The number has now been increased and this is a major step towards European integration. At a time when we in the Serbian Parliament proposed it some five years ago it was a big problem to accept your fellow MPs at the time, a big problem, Mr. Minister. Today, you see, on our side you have complete understanding and support to continue with this. What I'm saying is, Benefit may be today what we're discussing is that after the Serbian prime minister here in parliament said that he finally realized that the Berlin Wall was torn down and you finally realized that participation in the peace missions was benefits for both the military and the state, and I'm glad when you boast that you've raised the number of members of the Serbian Army in peace operations. I'm sorry you're not saying that the number was raised in relation to the stand-by arrangement signed before 2012. So, we made these plans, because the Army isn't a store where in one day or in one year things can be solved. So, what happened in 2013 is the legacy of 2012 and thank God I think that's the way it's going to be in the future. I congratulate you on that. But what's the problem, I said, the problem is that members of the Serbian Army, regardless of their increased participation, have today's living standards lower than in 2012. It's something that I, Mr. Minister, would like you to explain to us, which is why you supported it, because it's not rightly fair, because these people are doing an extremely difficult job and I think as someone who, as you know, risks their lives with the police should be treated adequately, and not to be convinced that the hungry stomach will work more and better and think better. What is actually meant to be a major benefit is raising the capacity of the foreign political Republic of Serbia. Nineteen peacekeeping missions, five EU missions, Serbia is seven in Europe, fantastically and Serbia experiences that it does not know that the United Nations in Congress is preparing a resolution on Srebrenica. So they're free of all that participation unless there are those at diplomatic level who are aware that we're building capacity for them today, so that they in the world can in time, if they can at least find out what's coming and what's going to hit us and be somehow damaged. I stress this because only participation in peacekeeping missions is an imperative for the military that you say improves their standard by being somewhere outside our country's borders. I'm glad you were in the Central African Republic. I was as well as you know or don't know, I don't know, you said you were the first one to go. I was in Cyprus, too. I didn't want to spend money on a military vehicle to go to Chad. For that only reason, I wasn't there, but it's very good that these people have financial benefits, but it's also very bad that obviously our country doesn't raise its foreign-political capacities regardless. Why am I saying this? Because participation in peacekeeping missions means that we become partners and allies to those countries in the world who decide on the fates of many countries, and today they may decide in some way on the fate of the Republic of Serbia. In order for this to happen, there must be some element to be followed, that is to activate the diplomatic crust and that we in the world do not promote ourselves here in parliament by telling us that you have inherited a bad condition and you have upgraded it and you have made it phenomenally good, that everyone in Serbia knows, your reach and results are undeniable and I think they will be remembered in the history of the Serbian Army, that is something that I have no dilemma of. It's positive for you, and we'll see to the Army if they're negative. I don't think Serbia has the ultimate benefit of participating in peace operations not because of people who participate and who, as a colleague says, have been rewarded, decorated, almost all peacekeeping missions have been decorated, but because the benefits we need to have as a government state, we do not draw both the Ministry and the Army from these missions. I understand that you've only been here for a year, that you're not always a diplomat, that's something that's new to you, and it's no problem at all, and it's not a shame, and I really don't think you should take this as a criticism, but there are other diplomatic representatives, there's the Foreign Ministry, there are the activities of the president, there are prime ministers. They are obliged to promote what you are doing, meaning that your work is being promoted worldwide by raising the capacity of the Serbian state not to be affected by what is happening to us exactly, which is that within a minute to twelve we find out that there is a resolution that we have, I'm sure, been able to influence, improve it, that in some way we create it or help create it so that no one feels threatened. On the contrary, that it may be accepted and good for all, and that is something that is bad. Also, I have to say, of course, this has happened, as you say, since 2012, but simply the possibility of participating in this number of peacekeeping missions is precisely the result of a successfully implemented defence reform. Only members of the professional Serbian Army participate in the peace missions, ladies and gentlemen, on a voluntary basis today and earlier. If by any chance the Serbian Army hadn't been professionalized with the participation of the mainland security area, we wouldn't have had the capacity to tell us today, Mr. Minister, what is the amount of people involved and that's the fact that they are. So, the reform that has been successfully completed, which you are contesting and using its benefits, has allowed you here today to tell us that the Serbian Army has been participating in the peace missions today, which we support, that you do not have a dilemma. I really think that, knowing that you consider this a criticism, this is well-intentioned, not even a criticism, this is commendation. I stress, it is of paramount importance that you are sitting here today in a friendly environment where no one is attacking you, unlike some last time in which even your colleagues who have been explicitly opposed to participation in peace missions support you, have understanding, give consent, and that may be the greatest step that has been made since the prime minister said he realized that the Berlin Wall was torn down. We are in a position to understand that the participation of the Serbian Army is not a bad job, on the contrary, that the benefits for both the military and Serbia and the state and the citizens and for the Serbian government are multiple and that is something to praise. I repeat once again, DS representatives will raise their consciences, as before 2012, Mr. Minister, vote for these proposals because we believe they are consistent, work on developing relationships, raise capacity and that is something that is very good and whatever we are the opposition we will not be against because we are a constructive opposition that supports good things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29532	Thank you. The word has a minister named Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29533	Thank you, Madam President. I laughed a little while ago about the amount of foreign words you use when you're talking to me, so it was just funny -- benefit, which you mentioned five times. But I understand you and understand you from the ship and from the shadows and from all this you will be the head of one of these ministries, but surely in the next ten years it will not happen. Math is what I'm saying today, which is that in 2012, 167 members of the Serbian Army were in peace operations. All together for those 12 years 314 members. The moment the prime minister, and then the defence minister, headed by the Zastava ministry, owed 8 billion and 67 million dinars. Since October 2013, it has settled all its tax obligations neatly. That's the facts. Krusik billion and 300 million dinars. Since 1.1.2014, it has calmed all its obligations. "The First Five-year-old," Triestenik, dedicated – two billion 178 million dinars. Since 1.12.2014, it has settled all its tax obligations neatly. Luciani "Milan Blagojevic" - 275 million dinars of debt, since 1 January 2013, has been calmingly all its obligations. The Utva Panchevo - 135 million dinars of debt have been at peace since 2008. "Freedom" Cačak - 925 million dinars, since 1 October 2012, has been orderly atonement for its obligations. So these are inherited liabilities by 2012. I also understand the social status of a member of the Serbian Army. I would understand more that many buildings, that many buildings, that many plots, that many of Serbia's military assets were not given to godfathers, friends, sold out, destroyed, more understood your concern for the social status of members of the Serbian Army and, of course, that our biggest concern in the coming period in addition to modernising Serbia's Army is improving the social status of members of the Serbian Army. We have enough resources, we have enough savings, but we have to reduce the fines we pay for the period from 2012 because 24 billion of us paid our dues from 2000 to 2015, court fees, lawsuits, and I don't know what doesn't come on the charge anymore, a variety of parcels from Požarec in millions of euros. Of course, we will define these funds to improve the social status of members of the Serbian Army. I'll tell you one more thing, no matter how hard you try to insult me, to piss me off, my culture and calmness is not my weakness, Mr. Sutanovac, but a way of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29534	The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29535	I don't know, Mr. Minister, what you saw as an insult. I'd really like you to tell me that. I'll apologize, I don't have a problem. I have a problem when the defence minister thinks benefit is a foreign word, and besides you, there is an officer who has an unfettered job, who everyone in Serbia knows. First, I mean a foreign word used by the Ministry of Defence, members of the Serbian Army may be less education than you do, but everyone knows what the benefits and benefits are. Mr. Minister, read the data on how many members were on the peace mission in 2007. We've increased 10 times by five years, 10 times since 2007. Read when the "storbed" deal with the UN is signed on the basis of which you operate, here's a colleague of the Konjikovac can tell you when it's signed, I think you may even have been in America at the time. What? In 2011, I signed it, but the minister has a problem. I support a completely defensive industry, Mr. Minister. I inherited $75 million a year of exports, we came in $250 million a year. I have a problem when you talk about the incomes being big, and I know you have a problem with the contracts regarding the Alas. It will be difficult to realize, Mr. Minister. Now you understand me look, it's a machine thing, I'm an engineer, that thing is a problem. I know they're interested in buying some company. Arabs are coming here. What I can't accept is the sale of property that the Ministry sold. When did the Department of Defense sell any property, plots, etc? Mr. Minister, I believe you've heard that there is a Directorate for the Property of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Property Directorate has the property and the Department of Defense. I'll use the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29536	You can't use the replica any time. Now you've been over two minutes. Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word from the President? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29537	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I, as an authorised representative of my parliamentary group, expected what happened today to happen on this subject. All parliamentary groups will vote in favour of these decisions and agreements and this is a good signal in terms of understanding of the policy being conducted in the area of defence, but also understanding of the great, particularly diplomatic benefits and benefits that our country will have, not only of the agreement, we will benefit more from the concrete defence ministry, but from the participation of our members of the Republika Srpska Army and members of the MUP in UN-EU peacekeeping missions. I think it's really our country, no matter what we are, even the former SFRY has heard of the then foreign-political circumstances, of full awareness of what it means to participate in peace missions, and even though we as anti-communists have a lot of objections to the then system and to lead foreign policy, to selecting allies in the world, in this part good policy has been conducted. A good policy had its discontinuity in the 1990s, when we were neither a member of the UN nor a member of Interpol, when we considered this world that goes the other way hostile and, what is good, today the political scene of Serbia is such that I am absolutely, and in particular, thinking of Prime Minister Vukic and the Defence Minister, who continues a good tradition of his predecessors, above all I think of the defence ministers after 2000, that in a serious system called the Ministry of Defence, in a system which, I will repeat it by who knows which way, in my internal reforms, went the farthest, thanks to professionalism, thanks to the expertise, thanks to patriotism. It's proof that everything depends on politics after all. Our young football players are currently fighting for the World Youth Championship finals. We know what our nation's capacities are, our nation's potentials only when they're given a chance. The main problems everywhere are problems of systemic nature, so it's the state that hasn't often created a system to expose all the potentials, the huge potentials that our people have. It's fortunately done by the Army of the Republic of Serbia. Prime Minister Vukic, while serving as defence minister, did indeed make a bold and responsible statement in parliament. He said he himself had no complete awareness of what participation in peacekeeping missions meant, how much the benefits in diplomatic terms bring to the country. Here we come to the field of what SPO advocated in the '90s, which unfortunately did not have majority support at the time. At that time, the official state policy considered the country's defence to be exclusively military and to defend itself in Knin, and we felt otherwise, that the country's armed defence was the last way to defend itself, to defend itself primarily with sound politics and good diplomacy, not to defend Belgrade in Knin, but to defend itself in Belgrade with good diplomacy and good politics. What is truly commendable for the current government and for the current prime minister is that they have full understanding of the external and political circumstances, for the place in which Serbia is and regardless of what we are facing, of course in a political sense, towards EU membership and in a valuable sense, agreements with the Russian Federation and Belarus show, among other things, despite the practical things that the Ministry of Defence will have, because there are plenty of our techniques, weapons and military equipment of Russian origin, show one well-balanced policy and in the defence sector. It is a good thing that the number and members of the Serbian Army and members of the MUP are constantly increasing in the peace missions, because indeed, only in the replica did the minister mention something that I wanted to say in the opening part, in addition to the diplomatic benefits that our country will have, in addition to our soldiers and police officers really being extremely prominent in all missions, receive the highest recognitions and medals, they gain both new knowledge and new experiences that they carry and that are very valuable both for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. A few years ago, I think four years ago, we adopted the Defence Strategy and the Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, and all these decisions are based precisely on the established security needs and interests of the Republic of Serbia above all on the National Security Strategy, the Defence Strategy and the Strategic Defence Review of the Republic of Serbia. I think that both in the professionalization of the Republic of Serbia Army and in participation in peacekeeping missions, there were "patriots" who felt it was necessary to maintain the mandatory service of the military term, that we had nothing to look for by the conflicts in the world, because, why would our children, most often, be mentioned in Afghanistan, go there to bleed, etc. What's good, if we're looking at a review of the situation in peace missions, it's that we really didn't have such cases to have tragedies in terms of the loss of one of our members, even in the near future. Secondly, the principle of sending members and military and police to peacekeeping missions is based on volunteering. Also, professionalisation of the Republika Srpska Army is based on volunteering. We even had a situation, regardless of the relatively modest profits that are the features of our economic situation, not the wishes of a minister or government, that eight, nine, ten, sometimes eleven or twelve interested citizens competed for one job in the Serbian Army, which shows that the prejudices that exist still need to be broken. Often, in political terms, we are asked by the government, by the MPs, to declare whether we are or exclusively for EU membership, which means, for those who do not understand what a good policy is, worse relations with the Russian Federation, or we are closer to Russia somewhere. I think this government really, first of all, I have to point out Prime Minister Vukic, made a good balanced policy. We are someone who has not imposed sanctions on the Russian Federation, despite the great diplomatic pressures, and it seems to me that the argument is indeed, given our traditionally good historical and many other ties with the Russian Federation, something that made sense and that in that part, the correct and timely response was made. On the other hand, if our country's goal is to join the EU, why would it mean that we are hostile or in any bad relationship with the great Russian Federation? I think the way the government is now going in political terms should continue, and this is being demonstrated through these agreements both with the Russian Federation and with Belarus, which are very useful for the Ministry of Defence. But at the same time, it should be noted that we also have an ambassador to the NATO Alliance, that our army is largely governed by NATO standards, these are standards that are in the military sense in the world's highest-level frameworks, that we have good co-operation with the NATO Pact, that we are in the Partnership for Peace, and I think that this is something that is in a political sense a wise and balanced policy. That is why the Serbian Renewal Movement and the Democratic Party of Serbia in the voting day will support both these decisions and these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29538	Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29539	Thank you, Mr. Chiquiriz. I just want you to know, when you say about the coherence of foreign policy, it is, unlike the previous period and I am glad when my associates who were in the previous period were at a significant post in the Ministry of Defence, above all as a profession, as officers, say that it is a balanced approach, unlike the previous period, which means all four pillars of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. But I would also like you to know that in 2007, 21 members of the Serbian Army were in peacekeeping operations; 2008 was 15; 2009 46; 2010 47; 2011 82; 2012, this is the period you mention when Alexander Vukic was Minister of Defence, 167; 2013 328; 2014 539 and 2015 670. Even a large international UN-sponsored rally took place in Belgrade, "Be a Peacemaker", where they have shown us great respect for what Serbia is doing to preserve international peace. What you must know, since you mentioned this, when it comes to voluntary military service, in 2011 650 members served in the Serbian Army units within two deadlines; in 2012 650; in 2013, 1,400; in 2014, 1,800 and 2015, 2,400 will be sent to voluntary military service. When we talk about interest, we have four candidates here. Also, when it comes to military academy and military high school, we have an average of 10 candidates who compete in that place. It is a rather large trend in growth when it comes to the interest of employment in Serbia's military. When we're this small and ignorant, illiterate, we have these results, I'm surprised what those written scientists were doing up to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29540	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29541	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Honored Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in the framework of the second joint single search, I will discuss the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Military Technical Co-operation, on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on Co-operation in the area of defence, on a proposal for a decision to adopt the Annual Plan of Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on military-technical co-operation was signed in Belgrade on 16 October 2014, ending the previous agreement signed on 3 December 1997. The new agreement came as a result of a mutual desire to strengthen and develop friendly relations between Serbia and Russia, but at the same time respecting the mutual interests of the two sides, as well as popular principles and international law standards. In particular, the parties agreed on military-technical co-operation in the following areas: arms and military equipment shipments, other military purposes for the purposes of defence and security of the countries; security of exploitation, remonting and modernisation of goods for military purposes; supplies of spare parts, aggregates, devices, special teaching and auxiliary assets, complete parts for military use, provision of services in the field of military-technical co-operation, development of co-operation relations during the process of designing and production of military purposes; exchanges of experts with a view to providing technical assistance in the implementation of joint programmes in the field of military-technical cooperation; training of personnel in appropriate educational institutions, in accordance with the needs and opportunities of the parties; advisory assistance in the fight use of arms and military technology, as well as on other issues of military-technical co-operation, with other areas of military cooperation. Also, in order to realise this agreement, the parties will form an Intergovernmental Commission for Military Technical Co-operation, and a special part is data protection, where it is particularly taken into account that mutually obtained data do not endanger either side. I would point out that our two countries' relations are traditionally good, that we have developed relations at all levels, and especially in the area of military technology, and that a good part of our military technique and weapons is originating in the Soviet Union or Russia. Accordingly, it is logical that economic and technical co-operation continues and further improves. A similar situation is in terms of co-operation with Belarus, so such an agreement is more than expected by our two governments on co-operation in the area of defence. The text of the Agreement itself was signed in Minsk on 10 November 2014, with the aim of improving defence co-operation within its jurisdiction, in accordance with national legislation and international obligations. The agreement sets out that the parties achieve co-operation in the following areas: military-economic co-operation, military-science co-operation, military education and training, defence legislation, military medicine, peace operations, environmental protection in the context of military needs and other areas of common interest in which the parties or their competent authorities agree. The concrete application of the agreement is seen through co-operation through official visits, working meetings, exchange of experiences and consultations, participation in exercises, participation in conferences, symposiums and seminars, exchange of necessary information and documents, research projects of mutual interest and other forms of co-operation in which parties or their competent authorities agree. The agreement also regulates the rights and obligations of persons visiting one of the signatories of the agreement, with principles of mutual respect and respect. I would point out that Serbia and Belarus's co-operation is stable, there are no open questions and there is always room for co-operation not only in the area of defence but also in all branches of the economy. Dear People's MPs, as regards the decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations, in 2015 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015, the basic reasons are also the need to facilitate the participation of professional members of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2015. In particular, it refers to 19 military missions and four police. By participating members of the military and police, the Republic of Serbia confirms its interest and intention to contribute specifically to world, European and regional security and respect for international rights and peace. The participation of Serbian military members in UN and EU multinational operations is an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia which greatly contributes to treating the Republic of Serbia in relations with the UN member states and the EU as an equal partner. By engaging members of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations under the EU's mandate in the framework of a common security and defence policy, the Republic of Serbia is integrated into an important area of EU activity while at the same time strengthening its security capacity on the path of EU membership. In addition, members of Serbia's military in multinational operations are in practice checking the experience gained so far and exchanging experiences with members of other countries' armed forces, getting acquainted with standard operating procedures, thus facilitating the integration of our forces into multinational compositions and adapting the way we work to world standards. Also, members of the MUP have direct benefits from police officers who return enriched with new experiences, but also with contemporary knowledge and skills. I would point out that all members of the military and the police who have been actively involved in multinational operations for their participation have received the highest marks. That is precisely proof of the correct decision on participation, but also the willingness and training of police and military members. The funds for participation in multinational operations have already been set in the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as in the funds to be approved by the UN. I would point out that participation in multinational operations is an obligation arising from Serbia's membership in UN and other international organisations, but at the same time participation in multinational operations is essential and important for Serbia's foreign policy. Through participation in multinational operations, Serbia is in fact clearly and resolutely showing that it can be an equal and secure partner in the active resolution of global security challenges and risks and threats. By participating in multinational operations, we as a state show the will and willingness to be part of those who are ready to fight for the preservation of peace in the world and who are ready to fight for respect for international law, Serbia's strategic commitment is to preserve peace and security. It is important, in addition to the above, to establish military ties through participation in multinational operations. The establishment of military ties brings new experiences, getting to know world standards in military operations, military equipment, operational procedures, and in one way or another, wants to contribute to the implementation of our forces in multinational forces and to the establishment of reconciliation, to some world standards. When we talk about the participation of our forces in multinational operations, we need to keep in mind our military industry and it can in some way be encouraged, or we can talk about exporting our military equipment. At the end of my presentation, I would also like to say a few words and basic data on the UN peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Lebanon, which is also the mission with the highest of our members. Serbia's military has been participating in a UN peacekeeping operation in the Republic of Lebanon called UNIFIL since 21 December 2010 with staff officers. Since November 2012, UNIFIL has been an enlisted infantry platoon with a logistic support element, consisting of 41 members of the Serbian Army who in November 2013 had been replaced by a infantry company of 130 members of Serbia's Army, and since December 2014, Serbia's military contingent has been increased by the involvement of another staff officer and one footing water of 33 members. 177 members of the Serbian Army are currently engaged in UNIFIL. Members of the Serbian Army are engaged in coordinating activities to monitor, monitor, maintain, break hostilities between the conflicted parties, help the Lebanese government effectively establish power and control on their own territory and provide assistance in conducting humanitarian operations to normalise living conditions, return of displaced persons and support for the establishment of the rule of law. The headquarters of the UNIFIL mission and the headquarters of the same UNIFIL sector, as well as representatives of the Kingdom of Spain's armed forces, whose contingent is engaged by members of the Serbian Army in the sector, has repeatedly highlighted the professionalism of members of the Serbian Army in the work and built trust in carrying out tasks. The political security situation in Lebanon is complex due to the impact of the crisis in Syria and internal interethnic and confiscational riots of local character in northern Lebanon. The UNIFIL's responsibility zone continues to characterise relative stability, with the risk that the effects of the regional crisis are reflected in the state of security. So far, there have been no elements to endanger the security of the engagement of members of the Serbian Army. The main and greatest security risk of Serbian military members in Lebanon is the possibility of escalating regional or internal conflicts. For all these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group will support those draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29542	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. MP Zoran Zivkovic is not here. National MP Marijan Risticevic is not here. People's MP Gordana Komic is not here. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic is not here. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29543	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, as far as the set of laws we are discussing is concerned, this importance of what we will discuss, discuss, and I am sure and adopt does not need to be particularly highlighted. The military-technical co-operation agreement between Serbia and Russia would be about my focus point of exposure at today's session of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Dear Ministers, I must point out, for the sake of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that this agreement is something that involves only continuity in efforts to work together with the Russian Army for a quality and long term. Why the continuity? Because in 2013, an agreement on military co-operation between Serbia and Russia was signed. The agreement was then signed by Defence Minister Mr Rodic and the agreement laid the foundations for military co-operation between the two armies, the Serbian Army and the Russian Army. Why is that significant? Only because citizens should know that for nearly 20 years there was no such way of regulating relations between the two armies, the Russian Army and the Serbian Army and that military co-operation between Serbia and Russia was extremely low. The second reason I want to point out for citizens is the fact that it is absolutely in favour of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing and absolutely denial and unfounded of all charges made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to its political course, and it is precisely the topics that we are talking about today. Why am I pointing this out? Because both this agreement with Russia, Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia, makes it very clear that its policy is completely, completely clean. That there is no subjectivism towards anyone in its policy, that there are efforts to preserve friendly relations with Russia, while Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are uncontested towards the European path and the European community. The agreement itself for those who do not have that knowledge and information should point out that it is legally founded and that it is founded on normal international rights and intensities to further develop the friendly relations between Serbia and Russia and the need for co-operation in the military-technical area. The essence of this agreement is something that has long been needed by the army of the Republic of Serbia, which is the supply of arms and military techniques, spare parts, exchanges of experts, training of personnel, etc. In order to be properly informed and to obtain information that is authentic, it should be pointed out that in this direction there are efforts to complete our military capabilities through the Ministry of Defence, our military potentials, to enhance the degree of security and protection of our territory, and therefore there is no secret that we have had certain talks, negotiations with the Russian Army towards the acquisition of anti-aircraft systems AS 300 and AS 400, that we have had efforts to complete our defence system in terms of anti-aircraft defence and military aviation by obtaining a modern "Court MiG 29 M". It is also no secret that we insisted with Russia that our "Super Galeb" as an aircraft that is respectable, a plane for Serbia's Army be serviced, reconstructed, modernised and improved precisely in the plants where the Russian Army can accomplish it. What's the problem? The problem is in finance, the problem is inability to allocate large or significant funds from the Republika Srpska budget, which in any case would be burdensome for the budget on the one hand, and on the other hand, a very, very wise and pragmatic view of the Government of Serbia not to be in debt to loans when it comes to the purchase of military equipment. What should also be pointed out as a quality in the agreement itself is the fact that the realisation of this agreement must be approached in a way that includes the involvement of professional capacities both the armies of Serbia and the Russian Army, that it must also be formed in this direction. An intergovernmental commission composed of representatives of the Russian Army and representatives of the Serbian Army and what is most important is that any party, signatories of the agreement, has the right to control or control over the use of military equipment supplied by one of the signatories. What does that mean? This means that neither Serbia, nor Russia, in the event of receiving the military equipment referred to in the agreement, can dispose of that equipment without the written consent of the other signatories, that it must be used on purpose, that such military equipment cannot be recommissioned, that it cannot be taught to a third party or third country and that is a good mechanism of control or protection against the non-purpose use of military equipment and other resources which will be subject to this agreement and surrenders to use or better and more specifically to say purchases. In all of this, the quality of this agreement is that all data related to the transfer of military equipment are considered so-called. Top secret information, that they bear the designation of state secrets and that in this direction any party signatories cannot abuse that part of the agreement in any case because there would be very big and harmful consequences and dangerous consequences. As regards the very validity of the agreement, this agreement is well-conceived in view of the fact that the period of validity of this Agreement of five years is not in any way something that would be pesoratically suggested, but the agreement itself allows so-called. automatic extension to an additional five years, constantly and continuously for a new five-year period with a six-month notice. What does that mean? This means that the agreement will not be extended to a new five years, only if one of the signatories of the agreement within six months of a five-year start-up period does not give rise to a position, does not express dissatisfaction with the agreement, or simply believes that the agreement should no longer be extended. As for our tendency to establish as high-quality military co-operation as possible with the Russian Army, it should also be said that these are no new details, that these are not any new circumstances, given the more facts. First of all, the fact that the military through the Military delegation, the Russian Army had already visited Serbia's military, the visit was organised and organised in Panchev, and this was the presence of a showcase exercise of the Serbian Army's special brigade, and only a day after that, the Russian Army delegation visited the 63rd paratrooper battalion, the Serbian Army's special brigade in Nis. At the same time, the training of Russian and Serbian specialists was planned. The plan includes an exercise involving the military forces, namely the 106th Air-Right Unit of the Russian Army and the 63rd Battalion, a parachute battalion of Serbia's special brigades. All these planning activities set up by the Ministry of Defence mean that one quality, very high quality is finally established with Russia and for Serbia a very important and necessary relationship that implies revitalisation of military capacities and military resources in Serbia. In this direction, however, Serbia had no unilateral approaches in any case, in any case it was not placed on one of the, let's say conditionally, the bloc's military sides, because at the same time in the defence ministry's plans were defined and military exercises involving US Marine Forces, a multinational exercise called "Platinasti Wolf", which was to be organised in Bujanovac, at the military base "South" where it should also point out that it is precisely a fact that the Serbian Army wants correct, quality relations both with the armies of Western European countries, the United States, NATO pacts and with the Military Russia, Belarus, etc. It should be recalled that Serbia is and it is precisely because of those who criticise both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the course that the Government of the Republic of Serbia represents this direction, that Serbia is the only country in Europe that has maintained military contacts with the tendency to set up plans for joint military exercises both with US units and with units of Russia, Belarus and other countries after the outbreak of the crisis in Ukraine. Again, therefore, Serbia is the only one of all countries in Europe, literally the only one who has maintained good contacts and relations with both the US military and the Russian army. Finally, honourable ministers, I would like to point out that all this work today should have a good sign for the future of the Republic of Serbia's Army in terms of modernising it, in terms of raising the quality of military equipment not only, but also of professional personnel, and to remind only that in these negotiations that were conducted with the Russian military, this type of co-operation has been established so that a good part of our military personnel is currently on education and professional training in Russian military centres. Of course, all of this indicates that it was finally established that the international legal framework, as well as one effective and pragmatic military co-operation of the two states that had not had that military co-operation for a long, long time ago, or that they had not had at the level at which they needed it. As for our participation in peaceful operations, where the Serbian army, my colleagues above all, is the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group Comrade Zvonski Stevic, has already pointed out the importance of this participation, I just need to point out and confirm that the Serbian Army's reputation in this way has probably increased, that there is a kind of respect for those who call on Serbia's military to have its participants present in peace-making operations and thus to make the Serbian Army as recognizable as possible. Indeed, in all of this, the SPS wants to contribute both to such discussions and to practical work, because I will remind you that exactly the Minister of Defence of the Russian Army, or the state of Russia, in talks with then Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ivica Dacic, has discussed these topics that we are discussing today, and these topics which, in a practical sense, are now being brought to life through at least the legal framework, this legal framework is an agreement, and we in the SPS parliamentary group are confident that this legal framework will also move on to the final realization. That is why, and because of everything that has been done so far, because of the desire for the SPS to continue its good relations with the Russian military, i.e. between the army of Serbia and the Russian Army, the SPS parliamentary group will support a set of laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29544	The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29545	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, just one non-adjustment, but you were talking about G4, we're modernizing the G4 plane now, after three years. An international tender has been launched and we don't expect them to do so, so everyone who reports to that tender can do so. The government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated funds to modernise that plane, which we consider respectable, and we hope that by September the artist, I say, works, to modernise the G4.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29546	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29547	Thank you. I'm sorry I wasn't there when I was called for the first time, but I was on the action team, what's the name of this second gathering that's parallel, and I think it's a bad practice to have a parallel session and committees, but what to do. Of course we'll all vote for these agreements and there's no doubt about it. They will have their positive facts and there is no doubt there again, but I think that in the debates, in addressing the public and the minister of government, the defence minister, the people who deal with the army, who like to deal with the military, too many easy promises are made. Too many big words are spoken, no grounds. It is said that the Serbian army's renaissance, that the new minister saved the army from being brought to the level, I don't remember what the term was, but it was something ugly, territorial defence or anything like that. Once again a miracle in our politics, again people with two or three hand movements solve things that haven't been solved for a very long time. The situation in the Serbian military is poor and the state of arms of military equipment is catastrophic and there is no doubt there. Is Serbia today capable of defence tasks, whether the Serbian Army is capable, I would not check. I think it's better for all of us not to check in. It's easy to return military acts, say, Navy. With all due respect, men and professionals in the army. It has nothing to do with them. I'm talking politics. We have the rank of captain of a battleship, but we have no battleships. We have an act of commodore, again I hear, let's all imagine how much that makes sense in this situation, in this condition of our equipment. Of course, the equipment of the army should be the result of a clear and defined foreign policy of a country. Of course, the military's equipment should be the result of the adopted, on the understanding of a based defence strategy, that we know who our potential enemies are, that we know who our potential allies are, what are the specific needs of defense, is this some neighbouring country, is it some military pact, is it some kind of force that threatens us or is it terrorism or something fourth or fifth? In relation to this, military equipment and schedules and definitions are carried out and whether compulsory military service is necessary again, etc. What Serbia needs to do is precisely define its foreign policy and its long-term political strategy. We can't run a leprosy policy all the time, where one eye looks at Brussels, and another eye looks at Moscow, and whoever's the cause, usually hits something between which it's not Washington, but it's some pillar, something that's not in use. A senseless position of military neutrality, which is only possible when war is being waged somewhere. You can't be military neutral when there's no war. How can you be military neutral? Maybe some war starts, generally, by jeopardising Serbia's interests. We can't call on general military neutrality then, even when it's not being guided into our territory. Therefore, it is a policy, if all parties in parliament and most of the Serbian political public agree in general that our future is the EU, then our policy on security and defence should be directed in that direction. Around us, if anyone doesn't know, are all the countries that are members of the NATO Pact or who are about to become one. I'm not in favour of joining the NATO Pact right now, but I think strengthening co-operation with the NATO Pact is an important segment of raising our level of defence and this should be taken into account when further development of our military, arms procurement and military equipment is planned. To know who's doing this, whether it's the job of the president of the state as commander-in-chief or any minister can give his opinion on what needs to be bought. Finally, Mr. Minister, do not play with armies, helicopters, and resign and save your honor and honor from the Serbian Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29548	Time. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29549	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, you know, I don't know where you served the army, but when you give these grades about the operational and functional capabilities of the Serbian Army, you don't know much. As for the acts that we have finally returned, the first aspect is the preservation of tradition, the second you must know that in the Serbian Army at this point we have a lot of elders who have completed schooling in Split, who have been on those duties for years and of course we have to continue to lead them through our careers and that is why it was necessary to return those acts. Of course, you tried to be honest with me, no, I didn't save Serbia's Army, the Serbian Army began to save itself in 2012 when Alexander Vukic came to the post of defence minister, and Mr Rodic continued and we continue today, all of us and the Serbian Army has the greatest support and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be a re-respective military organisation in the heart of the Balkans. When foreign policy is here, you are clearly told what it is and how balanced foreign policy is at the moment, and for activities where the Army of Serbia is. You, say your coalition partners, were then, in 2011 you had a 341 joint exercise with the EU, an activity of pardon, with the U.S. 192, with the Russian Federation nine. We today have half the year 216 activities with the European Union, 116 activities with the United States, 31 with the Russian Federation and 12 with the Republic of China. So these are the four pillars of foreign policy where we're absolutely trying to maintain the balance you're talking about, but you don't have enough information, so you characterize it. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I am looking for a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29550	On what grounds? For military service? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, not just for that. Well, we don't care where you served the army. Here you go, and discuss it with the minister in the hallway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29551	Because I see it interesting for a mockery and a boost, so the minister might know if I was serving an army, why I wasn't serving an army because it's in the archives of an army whose minister he is, and then he might look at it, and not take it over the strongest bizarre provincial jumps of his and your ideological leader sitting there in the front row when he's sitting. It's one thing and it's personal data and it's someone who understands anything in this world, let alone the minister of military Serbian should know and respect. Secondly, wherever anyone has served the army, it is difficult to acquire knowledge of the military service of what is the status of the army in Serbia today. Only if it's a qualification of a minister who served the army, so it's why he should be a minister. I wasn't talking about the balance, I was talking about just that there's no need for balance, it doesn't exist because four pillars of anything relying on, in physics there's enough three pillars of stability, the fourth is bringing instability potentially. That's what you learn in elementary school. Therefore, I was not talking about the foreign policy of the Serbian Army or the Ministry of Defence but about Serbia's foreign policy. It should be directed towards the EU, not only on words but also on works with all respect, of course Russia and China and Brazil and whatever you want. Finally, acts in the military and the military don't exist because of tradition, which is why museums are made. The army serves to defend the state's borders.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29552	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29553	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not take too much of your time, because it is about agreements, because the decisions that exist unequivocally in this National Assembly, and in principle in our society, and that among other things speaks the list of people who are registered for address today, are on the list of people who have expressed support for these solutions and these proposals. So in the shortest, support for planned activities when it comes to the engagement of our army in multinational operations, not only because our strategic commitment and something we are actually proud of, because it represents a sort of tradition when it comes to our society, our people, but also to our military, building a stable system, peace system, stability and security in the world, it is also something that we are obliged to be proud of and I would say prominent members of organisations such as the UN, but as someone who develops special relations with the EU. The word, therefore, was on UN missions, the EU, today a lot of words about what territories in which countries, and I would like to underline this opportunity that, in addition to putting ourselves through these universal values operations such as peace and security, we should not fail to notice that on the list of territories to which these operations are related, everything to each other is a friendly, dear country, the peoples who have organised their own countries in those areas. So it's not just about our principled attitude and the struggle for universal values, it's about more than a clear goal of defining Serbia to make a clear personal contribution and help those she really cares about, as it is, both in the opposite direction and there are no doubts about it. As for the engagement of our army in those missions that are already under way and where the results are already being realized and observed, we should also not miss out on the opportunity to see that the highest possible assessments are made when it is discussed, when it is appreciated, when professionalism is measured in any way, that it is the greatest possible assessments when it comes to showing access and accountability to the tasks taken over, but also the results achieved on these tasks, and that is a kind of answer and a question we may have heard today, whether or not the situation of our army should be checked. It's in practice checked right through these missions, these operations, and it's estimated to be more than good. Furthermore, who are Serbian friends, there is absolutely no dilemma and there is absolutely no conflict or anything vague about these missions, these operations and our general commitment, this aspect of security represents a very important aspect of the overall foreign policy, and that is something that absolutely does not miss to notice any of our esteemed friends and partners from the world. Whenever we have at any forum and at any level of joint debate, discussion, progress made on the level of compliance with European policy, but also on policy at any other level, none of our friends and partners fail to notice Serbia's significant contribution to this sector. So that's something we're working on, where we're doing great results, these plans we realize both the necessary continuity and on my part I expect, we achieve even better results in the period ahead of us, there's absolutely no reason not to. These proposals are good, as in other things, and everything that comes from the defence sector in this assembly of the National Assembly, and in this sense I welcome our guests and our promoters. When it comes to agreements on military-technical co-operation, i.e. defence co-operation with the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation, I stress that it is agreements concerning military-technical co-operation, military-economic co-operation, military-science co-operation and education, or further training. So, up to one uncontested clear aspect, which not only promotes the values that we also care about once more, which are the basis for development, and this is also the creation of new products and the conquest of new markets and sciences, continuing to improve in education, all of course related here specifically to the military sector, but generally, aspects which are more than clear commitment to this society. They deserve praise, especially when I am stressing once again, concerns countries such as Belarus and the Russian Federation, and yet another, perhaps finally important message for today, countries that are undeniable friends of the Republic of Serbia and with whom we are proud to develop relations in every sense, the Republic of Serbia is proudly and with great respect to its friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29554	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29555	The Honored Chairman, respected Minister Gasic, will also support these agreements and a proposal for a decision on the annual plan for the use of Serbia's Army and the participation of members of Serbia's military in multinational operations in 2015. When it comes to military agreements with Russia and Belarus, they are practically military agreements with the military east, to call it that, and there is an undisputed military West, or formal organisation that makes NATO a pact. We are in favour of military neutrality and we believe that we should also co-operate with the NATO Pact in all those operations that contribute to world peace, safeguard world peace, as well as cooperation with Russia, Belarus, because these are powerful, especially I am talking about Russia, and economies and armies, which have shown this through history. On the other hand, the Russian army has a very clear historical commitment to antifascism, and that is not irrelevant. It doesn't matter. One who has military experience, military history, anti-fascist tradition, means that in a large number of cases, they will behave in the future. That's not controversial. So, military neutrality does. But what is controversial is that the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately, does not have a coherent foreign policy. If someone will prove to me that President Nikolic's foreign policy and foreign military policy, Prime Minister Vukic and Deputy Prime Minister Dacic's co-existent foreign minister, can only make me laugh. So, the state of Serbia, unfortunately, does not have a co-existent foreign policy. You can see that in the west. It's also seen in the east. That can't go undetected. It is possible that in the country, through media spins, it is such an impression that there is a co-existent policy, however, it is no longer possible. In that sense, I think it is very important to make a consensus in the state of Serbia on this matter – where, how, with what does the Army of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia think in the future? What army, what officers, what soldiers? Whether with this attitude towards the military and the officers, whether with this kind of government towards the military, I would say, which has been underestimated in many sectors, and its chamber and its people, the reduction of wages, the conditions in which they work, technique, etc. In this sense, I propose and I will advocate that the state of Serbia, first of all, ensure that the Serbian Army works in a decent environment, but also an external policy that will be coherent and that will allow Serbia to be a bridge of the military East and the military West, and that is possible, because such a geographical position, such history, such as that, I would say, should build Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29556	The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29557	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, today on the agenda alongside two draft agreements, one with Belarus, one with Russia, we have two proposals for a decision to adopt an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations during 2015 and a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2015. I think this kind of debate is always very useful, for a number of reasons. I will look back on one aspect of our citizens, and that they should always be explained again, which is why we send our army, our soldiers to some distant destinations, remote countries, in crisis areas, which are in themselves risky. At first, when it began with this practice, there were certain skepticisms in this matter and the question was raised why we need it. This is what we need, first of all, because the Republic of Serbia thus fulfils its international obligations, and also nothing less, when it comes to the preservation of peace, security throughout the world. In this way, the Republic of Serbia shows and proves that it is taking on an active role, becoming an active factor in preserving the same, which in itself results in increasing its international reputation. As the number of crisis situations rise, the world’s crisis hotspots, of course, increase the need for world peace operations, the number of soldiers who participate in the same wave is increasing. When it comes to our soldiers, what we can see is that year by year their numbers are growing, the number of people reported is growing, a growing number of soldiers are deciding to participate in peace operations. What I would draw attention to, which is very important and that I believe our citizens are interested in, which is the safety of our soldiers, or are we taking enough care of our soldiers when they're somewhere far from their country? The answer is to take care of them, which is best said by the fact, what I would point out and praise is that in the event of injury, injury or something else our soldiers or their family receive compensation, which certainly speaks of taking care of them, the level of protection of them is raised, so to speak, in the case of unsatisfactory events, both them and their families, which certainly seems encouraging to increase this number of soldiers applying for peace operations. Also, there is profit, which is not for underestimation, which is quite similar, which must be so, given the risks that these situations bear with them, but what is most important to me, which I would particularly point out to this occasion is that our soldiers have proven themselves and proved to be excellent, in every respect, that they have shown that they are brave, loyal, that they are honest, that they are receiving rewards, medals, but what may be most important is that our soldiers are one good and correct relationship with the local population, because they are known to get in touch with the local population very quickly, that they have regard to them, that they are extremely correct, which of course serves them in honor, and which confirms the reputation of the Serb soldier as a brave and honest soldier, and thus, in the best possible way, represent our country. What I'd like to say is that there's a growing number of women soldiers going into peace operations. I think it's for every single commendation, for a number of reasons. Maybe the first and most important reason is because it's the best way for all the stereotypes, all the prejudices that exist about women that can't be good soldiers, that's how they collapse. What I would particularly point out is the experience, the practical experience these operations offer, which no military polygon can replace, can replace practice, terrain. It is important that our soldiers with all these acquired skills, experience return to our country, share that experience with their colleagues, and thus, most importantly, raise a general degree of security in Serbia. In addition to the motion for decisions today, we are also discussing two proposals for an agreement, one with Russia on military-technical co-operation, and one with Belarus when it comes to defence. I think both agreements are of great importance to the Republic of Serbia. What's common to both agreements is that one real framework is being created, so to speak, which allows our countries one smooth co-operation when it comes to these areas. I believe they are the benefits offered by these agreements of invaluable importance. All the information that our parties will exchange with each other, all the experiences that our sides will share with each other, also the training of personnel, that all of this is invaluable, especially if we consider which countries we will sign an agreement with, means with Belarus, Russia, which and how powerful states are when it comes to defence, when it comes to the military. Also, what I would point out is that the secrecy of the data, which I think is very good, means that our countries, the signatories of these agreements, are not allowed to give any information, no information to any other force, any other state, unless there is consent to another state. At the very end, I would like to commend all the efforts that this government is, of course, and the resolute ministry is making to constantly improve our defences and our armies, because I think these are areas in which it is constantly to be invested, which should be constantly promoted, because they are simply such world flows. We must step forward with them and what is most important is that our army be our pride again, our protection. I really think our government deserves to be commended for all of this. So, of course, the SNS will support the motions for a decision so as to propose an agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29558	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Bratislav Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first take the opportunity to congratulate the young Serbian team on entering the finals. That's how they defend the fear of our flag. I am deeply convinced and convinced that this government, led by Alexander Vukic, is headed for a major finale and when the economic recovery of our country is and when it comes to the recovery of Serbia's army and when it comes to the recovery of all layers of society. I'm sorry that Professor Janko Veselinovic came out, to answer a few questions, which I honestly didn't understand, because as my boss Vukic says, I'm very small to understand the professorial questions he wanted to ask me, but I'll have opportunities, probably in the next period. Thank you, you noticed that an increasing number of Serbian women's army members are in peace operations around the world. Last year we had 8.81% of women represented in peace operations, and this year we expect that percentage to be around 11.5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29560	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29561	A man this big without you seeing him? So, with our congratulations to our young footballers who really lit their cheeks and entered the World Cup finals, with respect for their struggle and their desire to prove, the desire for general progress, it is one spirit that we must cultivate and in this spirit the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our country continue to co-operate with all subjects on the political stage, today we are considering ratification, practically two agreements in the field of military-technical co-operation and defence. Two agreements that sign our country with Russia and Belarus, I must say, at this point very complex on some security aspects on the world political scene may seem a little strange to someone, but indeed our definition as a country, our definition as a people, is above all to respect good neighbourly relations with all those who are our neighbours, but also to respect good relations with all those who through history have represented our pillar of support in international relations, first and foremost our brotherly Russia with whom our country has signed this agreement on military-technical co-operation. I must point out that today, at the beginning of raising the level of this military-technical co-operation, we have many benefits that we can achieve from such an agreement. First of all, considering that the major technological advances of Russian military technology have been recorded lately, at a time when Russia began to become what it should be, when Russia began to return to old positions, practically a leader in the military-technical area and in the area of technical means of defence. Our country had very developed military production in the previous period, however, since 2000, unfortunately, the military industry in our country has been brought into a very difficult situation. It is primarily due to one claim to do in the area of security what has been done in the entire economy, which is that under one privatisation firm or one form of change or transition leads to a more efficient situation. The results of all these aspirations are devastating, so all six companies in the field of military production were brought to a standstill. The very great efforts of the Ministry of Defence, led today by Minister Gasic, have led to improvements in the area, and we hope that by signing the ratification of these agreements from military technical co-operation with us, the brotherly Russia will contribute to the fact that both in the area of military resources and in raising the efficiency of our military industry, positive results, especially given what I have already pointed out, the technological progress of Russia and those solutions that we can expect in this area that can be applied in our industry and the production of military funds. On the other hand, we can't help but highlight an aspect that can also be used. Under these agreements, co-operation on the placement of our military technology products into third markets in co-operation with our Russian friend, which should normally not constitute an obstacle to co-operation with other entities on an international political, military stage. In all this, we must have in mind the interests of Serbia, the Serbian industry. I am quite certain that the ratification of this agreement will be to this end. On the other hand, in the area of defence and co-operation in the area of defence we ratify today and agreement with Belarus, also our friendly country, which, as you know, has a very high level of organisation and which today represents may be too much to say, but a sacred example of how the state takes care of its production capacities and its people, as it puts it first and highlights the individual, is usually able to protect its production capacities and today, despite all the challenges and Belarus is in constant growth of GDP, retaining positions and building new positions. By signing the ratification of this agreement with Belarus, we hope, and I am personally sure that good developments will be achieved on that basis and that we in Serbia will have such results as Belarus did in its previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29562	Thank you. I'm sure we're all joining our young team's congratulations on fantastic success. The word is made by MP Milan Kovacevic. He's not in the O.R. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Gvozdenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29563	Dear Members of Parliament, Your Honor, I will speak of our army's involvement in multinational operations. I think it is extremely important for the state of Serbia for many reasons. One of them is the exchange of experience and the improvement of our military's combat preparedness, as well as participation in humanitarian activities in endangered and unstable areas that enable security, and then easier presence of our economy in the same and neighbouring regions. This also contributes to increasing the international credibility of the Serbian state, as well as to developing new partnerships. It also involves gaining confidence in the UN, increasing Serbia's international impact, as well as a responsible relationship with NATO Pact partners, which allows for a better relationship with the world's only collective security system, and that full sincere co-operation that suits us provides a peaceful and secure state of Serbia, as well as automatically attracting Western investment that does not go where there is no rule of law and collective security system and does not want to invest their money in such countries. I am sure that this Serbian government, headed by Prime Minister Aleksandra Vukic, has defined the real goal, the real methods that lead to it, designed a realistic timing, ministers, to establish the exact diagnosis of the Serb society's disease, and we are successful, nations and states, and as a doctor, I can say and determine the therapy that everyone will have to adhere to. It's time to close last millennium. It is also time to forget these 12 years from 2000 to 2012. We paid fair and square for everything we drank, ate and broke in it. It's time to choose whether to set foot in the 21st century or go back to the past and so fear everything until the birth of Christ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29564	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go, Mrs. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29565	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, immediately at the beginning of my presentation, I will say that I support military agreements and annual plans to use the Serbian Army on peacekeeping missions and that I will vote on these agenda points in the day of voting. Now I will only briefly refer to the agreement, a military agreement signed between our country and the Russian Federation in 2014. As we could see, it was a military technical agreement that formed legal frameworks for long-term and fruitful co-operation. This agreement lays down the principles of future co-operation in the field of military technology, weapons and equipment. I must point out that as much as we are committed to peace and peaceful policy, it is necessary that in good time, in accordance with modern trends of modern armies, our army is modernized and modernized. As a doctor and as a humanist, I can never be a supporter of weapons for any purpose other than science. On the other hand, as a member of this Assembly, as a citizen, as a child of a soldier in the former SFRY, I am aware that modernization of the army is necessary because unfortunately we get the impression that despite the numerous currentities in the world and in our environment lately, the most important thing is to rattle with weapons, revisionism and the need for rematchism. We know the economic situation of our country. We know that the economic power of the economy depends on the degree of modernisation of military equipment and techniques, but we also know who we can rely on and do the best for our army. With this agreement, we are just continuing the centuries-old tradition that has so far given the best results for our country and has equally proved to be the only right one. This agreement creates real opportunities to modernise and modernise our weapons and our military technique, but also to develop our military industry. I remind you that the first factory in modern Serbia was the factory of cannons in Kragujevac and that the production of weapons in our country is a tradition of which we cannot and must not give up. Just to ensure the continuation of this tradition, we need to adopt this and these agreements, which will undoubtedly contribute to the rapid development of the modernization of our military, but also to the military technical industry as an essential component of the development of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29566	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29567	Thank you. Dear Chairman, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a set of laws on the agenda. My colleagues and colleagues really talked a lot about everything. I will only talk in a few sentences about the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on military technical co-operation. That agreement between the two friendly countries was signed in Belgrade on 16 October 2014 and really reflects a mutual desire for further strengthening and development of friendly relations between the two countries. The agreement itself shall be concluded for five years and shall be automatically extended for another five years unless one of the parties informs the other party in writing no later than six months before the expiry or any period of validity of the agreement that it wishes to terminate the agreement. With the date of entry into force of this agreement, the agreement between the SRJ government and the Russian Federation government signed on 3 December 1997 ceases to apply. So I will quote Article 1 of this Agreement primarily for the sake of the general public, what this Article 1 contains, which are forms of military technical co-operation. So it now involves delivering arms and techniques for the needs of the defence and security of the state of Serbia and the Russian Federation, then providing exploitation, refurbishing and modernisation of goods for military purposes, delivering spare parts of aggregates, assemblies, devices, special teaching and auxiliary assets, complete parts for military goods, then providing services in the field of military technical co-operation, developing co-operation relations during the design and production of military purposes, exchange of experts to provide technical assistance in the realisation of joint programmes in the field of military technical co-operation. It then implies staff training in appropriate educational institutions in accordance with needs and opportunities, as well as advisory assistance in combating the use of weapons and military techniques. To implement the agreement, the international Commission for Military Technical Co-operation will be educated by representatives of Serbia and the Russian Federation and a legal framework will be established to achieve military technical co-operation between Serbia and the Russian Federation. Once again, it should be noted that the application of this agreement does not require additional funding from the RS budget because the defence ministry's financial plan is already foreseen. I am glad that also the MPs of the opposition, those who have declared themselves to vote for this set of laws that are on the agenda today, and of course SNS MPs will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29568	I thank Dr. Giric. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes,) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac. You have seven minutes and 23 seconds left, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29569	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, please make sure this session takes place in the planned course. The Minister's gone. I'm gonna make a move with the Secretary of State here and with...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29570	Mr. Sutanovac, the minister just got out of the bathroom.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29571	I'll wait for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29572	He's just coming back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29573	I'd wait. I don't mind waiting. Can you just give me back my time, these 24 seconds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29574	Here you go. Sign up again if you care about those 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29575	I care, why wouldn't I care? Why would you care about my 24 seconds? Dear MPs, I am pleased that today we have shown all the agreement on the proposal that lies ahead, that we will all support it and say that it is a completely new practice that introduces the opposition to Serbia. Unfortunately, in past times, the opposition had no understanding for the needs of the Serbia-Serbian and Serbian-Government and state armies, today the same opposition that was against such engagements shows the need to explain to us how important this is and how Serbia will progress. I would ask them a question – and where were you three, four, five, six or ten years ago, and why didn't you have such a relationship at the time? But, okay. It may be today, in my opinion, and the greatest success. We managed to change the value system and the value orientation of the current regime through this parliament sooner or later, and to finally understand that Serbia's interests are not only those represented by the opposition and destroying what is important for Serbia's military through parliamentary debate. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, I didn't get an answer from you for one very important question. As to whether the military-technical co-operation treaty requires a commitment, some obligation, to our defense industry factories? So will some “royals” be paid against products that have been licensed or licensed and produced by our defence industry? It's a very important question, and I think it's something that interests people who work in the dedicated industry, the defence industry, because if there's a situation, it's going to lead to a certain portion of the profits, practically that make factories today, not going to factories. On the other hand, I'm reading Mr. Minister very carefully your presentations, reading what you're saying in the media. The situation in the military is good, it's not controversial, but it's collapsing, Mr. Minister. There's no problem with that. So you told us on the Defence Control Committee that the military's fullness was about 85%, 86%, and at the same time we received information that the budget split in terms of wages was spent 25% in that quarter, or 100% planned. So we have a total of 85%, and all the salary money is spent. So 15% is less complete than Serbia's Army's systematization and organisation. You told us that on the Defense Committee. It's documented. You may not remember, but I'll deliver it to you, too, not a problem. So, if we're talking about the Army being destroyed, then the question is -- why do we have a total of 85%, and budgets are set aside for 100% wages? Yesterday, we had a meeting of the Security Control Committee where we heard the VOA has a completeness problem, which means it's not 100% complete. It's something you don't tell the public, the public should know that, unfortunately, besides the state of the technique, it's not envious. I read an interview where you said he wouldn't forgive you for the parade. I don't know who won't forgive your parade, I don't know why they won't forgive your parade when you and that parade had no objectively big connections, because that was by order, as far as I know, the President of the Republic. I'm interested in you telling us, since everything's been destroyed by 2012, one means, not paint, I know you've painted, but one tool that's been shown on that parade since 2012. Tell the Serbian MPs one thing that you've provided, whether it's about new guns, whether it's about hamers, whether it's about trucks, whether it's about rifles for a special brigade, a new uniform, anything, whether it's about Lazarus, whether it's about Pegasus, whether it's about a sparrow, one thing you should say publicly here in front of the MPs -- since these before us have been destroying everything, and then 15/2 since 2012, as Phoenix from the ashes, we've produced something that has something of value and that citizens can see. What you're saying isn't going to be forgiven by a parade, so why would anyone put a parade on you, except for forcing people to paint the old technique day and night, and for that, you singled out the funds, and for nothing else, you didn't even put into function and what was left for you. I ask the chairman to ask Mr Djukanovic, who just came from lunch, not to throw it away. I understand his nervousness, he may be beaten by acid from food in the Assembly, but please, we've been having a discussion all day that's perfectly appropriate, adequate, correct, no one throws it away and now a man shows up, hasn't sat here all day, and starts throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29576	Mr. Sutanovac, will you continue? You only have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29577	I can go on, but ask a man to settle himself. I've got two minutes left and I'll use them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29578	Please allow Mr. Sutanovac to continue his exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29579	That's where the arguments come in, that's where the yelling starts, the noise, the throwing. I am here right now as a representative of the opposition, but I have no problem discussing it with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29580	Mr. Sutanovac, it's not what you're alone from your MP group, you don't have to point that out. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29581	Why are you in my word now? Mr. Minister, I object that the engagement of the Serbian Army has not been adequately used in the development of our country's diplomatic relations. It's not your job or maybe it's part of it, but unfortunately, it's not the idea of sending our soldiers into peace operations to make some money, so they come back with some bigger budget than they have. That money can also be shared here, to raise wages to everyone, to at least return to the level that was until that famous year 2012. The question is how is it possible that we as the country that is in the first seven countries of Europe that sends the military have no information that a resolution concerning our countries is being prepared in this UN? We have a chance today to read that the President of the Republic proposes that the Russian Federation veto. If you had provided information in time or the Foreign Office, perhaps the president could have done diplomatic activity and made it impossible for us to do something that didn't suit us. I haven't had a chance to see that resolution, but I can see that everyone is excited about it, including the prime minister, and I care that the prime minister isn't excited, because when he's excited, he's making mistakes. I wonder why you didn't see that capacity the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29582	Time, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29583	I can only spend half a minute more since it's just been taken away from me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29584	You can't, we have to respect, Mr. Sutanovac. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29585	You're completely unfair. First you came to my word, you threw me a colleague from the second bench, measured my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29586	Mr. Sutanovac, you're wasting your time, please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29587	I finished my sentence. I'm saying it takes me half a minute, I can't finish my sentence. Who knows which way you're doing this? It's really not fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29588	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29589	Thank you, Chairman. Article 66 was injured, but also a member of 107, of course, of Parliament's dignity. Where I've been, unlike you who've never been here in Parliament, it doesn't matter. Yesterday we had a session of the Security Control Committee that you must not speak publicly of where and where you are not able to, after all, step out in public and say what was said on that committee. We had an eclectic example here of a man talking about what the Military Intelligence Agency brought to that committee yesterday. You were obliged to warn him. Unfortunately, you didn't, but what to do, I guess someone's used to treating parliament that way. Therefore, since he is never here at the session, and these photos show, there is no right to respect anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29590	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. Sutanovac knows very well what his obligations are and how he can't present information of that kind, but it's still something that makes him suffer. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29591	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've asked more questions, and it's always my pleasure to answer those questions. First, the numerous state of the Serbian Army, the Serbia Army's fill-up was defined by a strategic defence review, and he says – from, to, from, to. The percentages you represent are right in that domain. It is not accurate information that the Serbian Army has spent 100% of its wages. It's known how it's defined, so if you just want to talk about something that you have some information about how it's being spent in the Serbian Army budget, okay. Article 7, you say you read everything we bring here and I'm glad you did, but you skipped article 7. A contract with the Russian Federation that clearly states how intellectual property is regulated, and the previous part, and this one when modernising funds and military equipment is at stake. So, in Article 7, you have clearly defined what these are obligations and rights of all the factories of the dedicated industry and for the previous period and for the next period, and in Chapter V, the objectives achieved by the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations, you have clearly defined what it is that the Republic of Serbia, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the departure of members of the Serbian Army in multinational operations, is benefiting or benefit by participating in such peace operations. I appreciate your concern about what's being shown on the Military Parade. Here, I am taking the opportunity to invite all MPs to one of, surely for the past 15 years, the biggest arms fairs and military equipment "Partner" since 23 June. Come and see what the achievements of Serbia's dedicated industry, the Military Technical Institute and the Serbian Army are. Of course, and I invite you to come see. What resources could not be shown? Well, none of those from the previous period, such as the latest "Saturn" case, which is the subject of a certain criminal responsibility, are shown to be politically correct, where some previous defence ministers are included. No radar included, no Tales, part Tales, etc. So if you want me to tell you what's new, I can point out the co-operation with MAN, where our first semi-trailer vehicles arrived after 1982. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "When?" Before the full moon and a half this year. (National MP Dragan Sutanovac throws out of place. ) Unlike you, I have a lot more time and I can talk, so you can interrupt me and you can throw me out of place, I'm not running out of time. So that's one part. Then there's FAP production and new FAP vehicles. Then what I can announce is that in June, with the flag of cars, we will return the old ones for the new 126 vehicles that are over 30 years old, and we will buy the "Fiat 500 L" domestic production, domestic handiwork, which we will include in Serbia's Army equipment. When you ask me what's new from the uniforms, I'll say that they sold all the M93 uniforms that we had on the lager, which were supposed to be for reserve composition in the RR and that there are more, what they mentioned in those interviews that you read, and I'm glad that you read every interview, there's more in Serbian forests and meadows than in Serbian Army stores, and we needed it. It's a new uniform. So it's thrown out for a bunch of big money out there. I can give you that list of new equipment that came in. Of course, Lazarus enters the serial production. You must know, and Serbian citizens must also know that first we at our TOC, the Technical Road Centre, must review all the documentation, accept and then enter into the use of Serbia's Army, which has not happened in the previous period. I'll remind you of the "Lasta" case, which is also the subject of the prosecution's criminal work, that it was used without his right to do so. So, it's not from the funds and here's the opportunity for you to get acquainted with this. When it comes to Serbia's dedicated industry, I will show you here the World Bank report - arms and military equipment, arms exports and military equipment. You'll see here one big jump 2007/2008. the year when the Serbian Army entered the modernisation and when it sold a huge part of its equipment and its funds as an surplus. We have the same jump after 2010, also when a significant number of funds and equipment has been sold. They can also see the cameras for citizens' sake. You see, at the end of 2011, the production and transport of weapons and military equipment is almost zero. It's a World Bank report. Then you see from 2011, a slight recovery of the dedicated industry, but from real revenue, from the plant of the dedicated industry, from production, not from the surpluses of Serbia's Army, as it was in 2007 and 2010. This makes me very happy, because we are slowly entering the recovery of the plant of the dedicated industry and the placement of the plant of the dedicated industry, so that this is accessible to anyone who wants to discuss in one correct way what has been done when it comes to the factory of the dedicated industry and how they affect one new re-industry of the Republic of Serbia in all spheres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29592	Thank you. You want a word? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: I'm badly interpreted.) You're being misread. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29593	I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, to repeat, you didn't deny me that filling is 85%, did you? In the first trimester of this year, the fullness is 85%. Is that okay? I said that 100% of the funds were spent for the first quarter, which is 25% of the total. Is that okay? So 100% of the military funds were spent on 85% of the total. Am I wrong? I don't understand that well? Well, it won't be that she doesn't understand, it won't be. On the other hand, you said there was no such fair 15 years ago. Well, there wasn't even a fair, Mr. Minister 15 years ago, we made it the first time in history. You say a few months ago you started buying trucks, man. Well, there's a fundamental difference. We were buying trucks from FAP. You did not specify any means that appeared last year at the parade, but no means, except for an empty story about the M93 uniform, which now celebrates 22 years of existence. Almost one man also accused me of selling when I was the minister of those robes. I owed that coat back in 1987 when I was in the army. So, M93, I believe you know it's a year of modeling when it's made, so M10 came in new and thank God. Unfortunately, you have not finished, and in five years you cannot complete the Serbian Army's equipment with a new uniform. So tell me one means. The fair is awesome. So the fair is awesome. What you're talking about is criminal acts in the ministry, so let the police finally do something about it, let the VBA do it. If you don't have all the paperwork, I'm sure someone does. I'm sure someone's working on it. Well, don't laugh, people, it's a serious thing. Three years have passed, you're hunting witches, and people's wages are getting less and less, worse alive, getting worse. I follow, I read, and I didn't hear anything that you did, but you stopped everything, we didn't let it, we stopped it, etc. Give me something you can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29594	Thank you. The word has a minister named Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29595	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Sutanovac, you just said you're a machine engineer and you don't understand how at 85% of the charge is spent, but it's not said that 100% of the charge is spent, it's planned for this 85%, as you say. I'm not going to say the exact number because the security certificate obliges me to do what you don't have and you can talk like that. So, for 85% of the military's fullness, 100% of the projected funds, for that 85%. I mean, how can I explain it a little differently? The other thing is, you do most of thesis replacements. You were getting FAP. So you didn't get FAP. We're getting FAP today and we're in a good mood for the FAP in Priboj, the part that deals with the production of trucks for the Serbian Army, stays under the Sisu and works for the Army of Serbia. Here, now arriving at the end of this month 10 trucks, 10 new trucks. We have accurately shown the needs of what the Serbian Army has on yearly terms of need and for the purchase of new FAP vehicles and for the remonting of old FAP vehicles. We bought it, but you don't want to listen to me, three new train man's, like the U.S. Army has, like the German army. The last vehicle and the purpose of transporting tanks in the distance was purchased in 1982. The value of those three vehicles is 112 million dinars. They arrived a month ago. You didn't want to watch the parade, even though you were invited. We thus show that we are different from others. You haven't seen Nora, you haven't seen Lazarus... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, how could I not see? So you say, "What did you show?" I beg you, these are the funds. Here, you have a chance to... It's true, there's been a partner for 15 years. Every other year is... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: There is no such thing.) I beg you, because this doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29596	Ambassador, don't communicate with the minister, please. You can't do that. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29597	Thank you, Chairman. I have to start an anecdote exposure. In one restaurant, he sat down with some of the current ministers and explained how difficult it is to be a minister, how difficult it is to manage a large system, how much responsibility and commitment to daily work. Society nodded and spoke – indeed, it is very difficult to be a minister. But then somewhere on the side, from the corner, you heard -- there's something much harder than the minister's position, which is when you're a former minister. Somewhere in that light I really understand the tone this debate is going on. With exceptional satisfaction, approval, all my colleagues and I have accepted that indeed MPs and oppositions and positions will vote in favour of these draft laws that confirm these decisions and agreements, and that is very good. What I didn't like, and I trust the citizens, is a very small part of the discussion where it was specifically talked about these drafts of the law or decision, and I think that citizens need something to hear and that the debate was precisely thanks to the opposition MPs, who have not prepared themselves enough, contentiously. They are political, with a sharp criticism, which always has the same title – nothing is good, everything is bad, I have no arguments, I have no proof of it, but I have general places to say that the poor capacities of the military, that the standard of the military, that the state of security is at stake, that foreign policy is bad, etc. These are sentences that we could listen to during today, which absolutely do not stand. I listened very carefully. I wanted to be objective, as much as it allows me to be in the position that I am in, and I wanted to write down arguments that support the opposition MPs' claims. I couldn't write anything down. If I thought it was true, then Minister Gasic immediately responded that it was not an argument, that it was a lie, that it was a manipulation, that it was an abuse, and a strong abuse of media space, so direct TV transmission. But it would be fine if indeed the opposition MPs, when they have this free television space, at least sit in this room, at least have a little space, to turn to the voters and say. A colleague who has been a nearly independent MP has indeed, it seems to me, in his brief five-minute presentation, because they no longer have independent MPs, presented part of his future election programme. I say, I listened very carefully. Another MP said the opposition is introducing new practice to the Serbian parliament. You know, in order for something to happen, it always takes two sides, both opposition and position. And the position does not want, really broadly and with broad public debate and good preparation of all the draft laws, not only of those who are on the agenda today, so we want to, in this very way, and broad consultation, in all possible ways, contacts with the ministries, working groups that are preparing the laws, to be in touch and to prepare at the end what, when it comes to the Serbian Parliament's hall, it is a compromise that most indeed agreed on, most of the MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and opposition and positions. And then a colleague says - we have introduced this practice that everyone votes in favour, both opposition and position. That's really nice, because there's nothing we can do without each other. What are the proposals for the laws to come, whose parent committee is the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, are generally adopted in this way – most of them. These are laws concerning both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior and I am extremely pleased and proud of it. But I must say, there has been a lot of work done here, and that is for all the members of the Committee, especially the MPs of the opposition. So the introduction of practice is a common result of work and citizens need to know and I think we should appreciate the joint effort to adopt as many as possible laws. Let me just remind you once again that these four bill proposals have 30 pages in total. Many MPs did not want to read and prepare. I tell all of this to the viewers first and foremost. Because someone should appreciate the work of an unspeakable messenger who is not only in this tide. So, the Defence and Home Affairs Committee has had 35 sessions so far, and we only have a year, which seems to be, if you excuse those minimum weeks when we haven't worked, and almost every week we've had a certain committee, and that's not a pro form, that I'm not talking about regular ministers coming, and the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Police and they're submitting information about work, where we can ask them questions. Thanks to the MPs of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, it has been prepared for this session of information on the political and security situation of multinational operations involving members of the Republic of Serbia's Army, and very extensively, on some 50 sides, where, if you are interested, you could read and then tell the citizens of Serbia where our members of the Serbian Army are going and whether it's just that small circle of people who decide in the military about where members of multinational operations are going, or we can also tell citizens how, under what conditions and circumstances they are working there. These are information that can be made available to citizens, unlike those that could be heard today, and are not allowed to be presented to the public because of other higher interests. So I don't want to talk about these details and the bill's proposals, because we're already somewhere and we're at the end of the debate, there's something we can hear today, but I want to say what hasn't been heard, which is that it's an extremely positive assessment of the participation of our members in multinational operations. This is also witnessed by some pressure from various diplomatic missions in Serbia that have insisted, on a daily basis, to put this decision on the agenda of parliament on the participation of members of the Serbian Army and the Annual Plan for the use of the Serbian Army in multinational operations. Because it is very important for them to have our members, because they have proved to be both professional and dedicated and as people who spread a good spirit, a positive atmosphere, and good results on the ground. I also want to say because of people who are in multinational operations that when it comes to positions where 670 members of the Serbian Army are in 19 multinational operations, there are military observers, staff officers, medical staff in the sanity teams and military hospital, infantry departments, infantry platoons, troops and autonomous ship protection teams. These are some of the positions our people are in. As for the financial resources needed to implement this proposal of the Annual Plan of Use of the Serbian Army, two-thirds are secured from the budget, one-third, I am speaking indicatively, will be provided with compensations that the UN will pay to the Ministry of Defence on behalf of participation in these multinational operations. We are currently, once again, having seven UN peacekeeping operations and four EU multinational operations, in which we are active and we have seven other UN operations, one EU that we have not participated in so far, but have been introduced into this new Annual Plan of Use by the Serbian Army. This does not mean that they will inevitably participate, i.e. to start their participation, but in this way we have only created conditions to meet this obligation that results from the concluded memorandum of understanding between the Serbian government and the UN. I want to thank everyone who participated in the discussion today. So, this will be another set of laws that we will all vote on together, because that is something that is Serbia's priority at the moment. Our participation in multinational operations is a very important foreign policy priority. The foreign-political diplomatic offensive carried out by all members of the Serbian government, all representatives, officials involved in the country's representation is absolutely, on all sides, welcomed by exceptional praises. This can also be witnessed by daily visits by various diplomats, political representatives of different countries, from east to west, who give great praise daily, primarily to the activities of Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. In Voting Day, the SNS Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of these draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-17-0.u29598	Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions of the acts. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
