ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39517	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act does not change the important solutions of the existing law but improves health care organisations, i.e. improving the quality of health care provided in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This draft law creates opportunities for further improvement of the work of health institutions and private practices as well as other legal persons performing health care work, and the solutions proposed in this draft law are the result of co-operation by the Ministry of Health, Competent Chambers of Health Professionals and the Community of Medical Facultys. The proposed legal solutions provide for a traineeship for all healthcare professionals with a high level of expertise to last six months. The basic studies programme in colleges is consistent with the European directives contain mandatory practice in the final year of primary studies, i.e. students already carry out part of the compulsory traineeship programme during that period. Up until now, only doctors of medicine whose primary studies at the medical school have lasted six years, and based on the programme of the competent authority of the university, while the proposed legislative solution prescribes that the traineeship takes six months and for dentists, graduate pharmacists, medical biochemists and nurses with high professional training who completed the medical professions. The existing legal solution stipulates that a health care professional who has not obtained the condition to renew a licence, or an independent work permit, may perform health work in a healthcare institution, in private practice under the supervision of a healthcare professional who has received or renewed a licence at the competent chamber. The proposed amendments shall be subject to the procedure for obtaining, renewing and withdrawing a licence by passing a licence exam unless the healthcare professional has obtained the necessary points through the continuous education programmes. These amendments to the law abolished the possibility that a healthcare professional who has been permanently deprived of a licence may carry out certain health activities under the supervision of a healthcare professional who has a licence. This is how supervised work does not exist in the regulation of any of the countries in the region. By passing a licence, i.e. verifying expertise is a way to apply in countries in the region in cases where a healthcare professional does not obtain conditions for the renewal of the licence. The proposed legal solution would allow a healthcare professional to renew the same licence before the expiry of the licence, thereby obtaining permission to work on his own. A large number of healthcare professionals stress the validity of the licence by the end of 2015, and since a number of healthcare workers have not accepted the sufficient number of points needed to restore licences, there is a need for an urgent amendment to the Health Protection Act. In view of the fact that the Ministry of Health has written and prescribed and controlled the conditions for the operation of the pharmacy as well as to control the operation of the pharmacy, it was necessary for the Ministry of Health to regulate by means of a general act what could be the subject of drug trafficking. In the sense of this law, the term health care professional is specified by both teachers and co-workers of the medical professions teaching from clinical studies in a medical institution in accordance with the rules on higher education as well as teachers, i.e. co-workers of the medical professions not teaching from clinical studies and providing health care services in healthcare institutions are considered healthcare professionals. This change has arisen as a result of the lack of regulation of this issue as well as the methods of payment of health services provided and made available to the faculty by means of funds based on them. It is also prescribed by this member to regulate mutual rights and obligations relating to the provision of health care services from health insurance obligations by agreement concluded between health institutions in the plan of the health professions and the RFZO. The other solutions provided for by this law already exist in the healthcare system, i.e. only the changed entities which are the bearers of these transactions. The proposed solution in the law will not generate additional costs to patients, i.e. citizens, as well as to businesses, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises. We propose that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act be adopted by emergency procedure in order to avoid any damage and consequences to the functioning of the health care service as well as the overall health system. To implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources from the Serbian budget in relation to the funds already provided for in the work and performance of healthcare activities in health institutions under the plan of a network of health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39518	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? The word is Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39519	Dear Ministers, esteemed co-workers of the Minister, respected Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, the Health Protection Act is one of the basic laws that regulates the health life of our citizens and, in addition to the Health Insurance Act, is indeed the basis of legislative activity, and so is the practice that provides health care and safety for citizens on this plan. The amendments and the addition of the laws are always more than significant to our citizens, in fact for all of us because we are all potentially patients and these amendments and additions to the laws that we are going to talk about today, and as far as patients are concerned, therefore, teachers, co-workers who are now being treated as health workers, concerns the opportunities in which someone starts their work in health care, especially when it comes to persons in higher education, concerns health institutions and that of one part of the health institutions that are considered particularly important in our culture. The belief of all our citizens that something very clean, very quality as a pharmacy and very important and concerns this segment as well. And, of course, it concerns a medical certificate that, in certain circumstances after education, regains the right to practice their health function. All amendments and additions to the laws proposed and contained in the text before us are actually an opportunity for health care to rise to a higher level on one side. On the other hand, to protect the rights of patients, to get this protection in the best way possible and how well-organized. The question is whether it may be time to reform the health system at a higher and deeper level is a certain issue that is very important and there are many who know health issues well and politics and think it is time. We are aware that without reforming the insurance system, there are no essential reforms in health care, and we are also aware that reforms of the health system, or education system, can come on the agenda when the country is even more economically stable and when actually healthcare users are able to solve this issue in different ways, because it is obvious that the health insurance system is working now, is in line with the patient's material capabilities, i.e. the user of services. What does all these changes and additions apply to? We said first of all at the pharmacy facility. The regulation that regulates the work in the pharmacy and controlled work at the pharmacy provides that the jurisdiction, i.e. the ingenuity of the Ministry of Health, makes it logical that the items of transport in the pharmacy and the non-medical and non-medical products, therefore food for children, various cosmetic preparations, the child preparations are listed from the same truth, from the minister, and thus ensure the quality of the work. What the pharmacy may be expected to do in the next period, because those from a few years ago are in the position that we may have taken the first step in equating private and state health care, the patient can also use his prescription in a private pharmacy if this pharmacy has met certain conditions and if the Republic Health Insurance Fund has made a certain contract with it, now another step is being made, the possibility that what is really in the pharmacy is under control and that he has the character of a medically acceptable, tolerated, allowed. You can't find goods in the pharmacy, or you can't traffic an object that isn't adequate for the very essence of a health institution, and that's why this change is so that it's not a chamber, but that the minister is bringing a list of everything that can be found in the pharmacy, quite justified, and I think it's quite logical that we agree unanimously to accept this amendment and supplementing the law. The second important moment concerns healthcare professionals and the most educated healthcare workers, whose status has not been resolved so far, and this change will not be fully resolved either. In this regard, teachers and co-workers of medical schools, therefore, of all medical schools, are referring to dentists and pharmacists and medical biochemists, not only to doctors who participate in teaching while working in the practical sense of their work and teaching students and how they are engaged in health work. In fact, they implement health services and the subject of amendments to this law is that in a tripartite relationship a medical institution, a medical university, or a faculty of medical sciences whose teacher or associate works and an RFZO makes a written act to regulate mutual rights and obligations. This is an extraordinary vice, and I think that the Ministry of Health has made an extraordinary effort to work together with the Ministry of Education, with the community of medical schools, along with the other entities involved in this show a model that can be addressed and much bigger issues. For example, admission policy. So, no ministry can only solve major problems or health or education, but together with chambers, with the Serbian Medical Society, with the community of medical school and on this case, on this amending law, the Ministry of Health has indeed passed the exam and has shown that this co-operation is more than possible and has given us a proposal for an amendment that says that healthcare professionals will be considered as any teacher or associate performing a health function at a clinic or outside the clinic. If it is provided, this health care service and financially will be evaluated in a certain way by the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund. The details of how this will go will be agreed between these three entities that I mentioned. What is still very important is that we are trying this very change in a unique way and I think we will be able to solve the actual way of funding teachers and co-workers of medical schools, which is very different in different colleges. What is very important is that we understand that when our students learn, they actually look at a certain realization of health services and participate in it. Of course, they can't be financed for it, but their teachers should be in a way that a certain amount of money from the fund will be provided to medical schools, medical sciences. It will be the university's own funds and will be financed under the Law on Higher Education, Teachers and Associates. There are those who already expressed certain reserves on the board yesterday compared to this. I don't think they're right because this is the first attempt to address the problem of the so-called quality and uniformity for all of Serbia. "Double working relationship" teacher and associate of medical school. The third change that we're going to discuss these days is actually about the fact that who can do it on their own in health care when they graduate from college? It's someone who did an internship, a traineeship and passed a professional exam. As we accepted certain suggestions and directives and obligations from European legislation when we accredited higher schools, or medical schools, we in the final years of the studies of these colleges introduced incomparably more practical work than before. What is a fact, it is that our top experts, when they unfortunately leave Serbia, are admitted to being more than professionally educated, but sometimes they lacked little skill, and in medicine it is very important. This has been corrected by the programmes and how at the final years of the study, thanks to the truly extraordinary understanding of the Ministry of Education to change human resources during the previous year of the final year of the study programme in our country, it is quite logical that it does not have to be done again through the traineeship. All those who have graduated from medical sciences, so pharmacists, dentists, doctors, medical biochemists, will have an internship under this six-month bill, not for a year, some six months, which is quite enough. They may carry out an expert examination and may, after having passed the expert examination, perform on their own. What is also important is that those who will work in health care, who have a high degree of education and have not completed the schools of medical sciences, defecologists, psychologists and other associates, medical associates, remain with them for a year because, in fact, in their final year of study, they do not have as much practice as those in medical disciplines and this proposal is more than logical and leads to one order and understanding of what it is in practice, an independent practice of a college-educated young man, needed in order to respond in the most qualitative way to the need for his patient to have the highest quality health care according to the highest degree of knowledge and scientific research and clinical-practice. Of course, another segment they're dealing with changes and additions to is what's called. ‘authority for independent work’ of doctors, dentists, pharmacists, medical biochemists. When can they do it on their own? I said when the traineeships are over, they pass the exam and they can work on their own for the next seven years, but they are under obligation precisely because of the citizens, because of the patients being continuously educated. What does continuous education mean? For an area where such educated personnel work, they must continuously acquire knowledge that is achieved and reached in our research and clinical world across our planet, not just in our country. It happens through continuous medical education. After seven years, these most qualified people, because, let me, I don't think I'm subjective, I think that the most valuable young people are still enrolling, among other things, and these colleges that we mentioned, medically, pharmaceutically, dentally, so these young people have to constantly gain their knowledge. We have made a decision on this and in the current law it is envisaged that a number of points can be obtained in seven years through continuous medical educations, in order to renew so-called. licenses or self-employed permits. So far we've had a rather rogobatical formulation in the law that someone can work under surveillance if they didn't. You know, someone who's so educated and his work under surveillance is something that's totally unacceptable. A man has to work on his own. In order to work on his own, he must have been able to verify that he was following both innovative knowledge and that he had installed them in his own professional personality and applied them. So continuous education is really necessary. Yesterday, we also had opinions on the Health Committee that there was no need to have a form of continuous education, but countries of the region, countries of Europe and the standards that we strive to really insist on and I don't think there is a doctor who doesn't feel the need to come up with the most modern information in his field and to apply it in practice. Through continued education, respected colleagues and colleagues, we actually guarantee the safety of our citizens that everything that happens in the world, and may benefit their health, we can apply ourselves, raise the level of reputation of our most professional people, and really approach that generation of contemporary experts who can in the highest possible way do everything that is in accordance with not only the Health Protection Act, but in accordance with the need for patients' rights to never be compromised. Perhaps the greatest contribution of these amendments and the addition of the law is in that segment. The patient is right, and I would remind you that anyone who goes and gets advice, and not only anyone who needs to be operated or rehabilitated, has the right to be treated in the most modern way. We can't provide that any other way than the so-called. licenses that are renewed for seven years. What did our reality show and where life has denied us a little? There were those colleagues who didn't follow this one the most diligent way. They did their job, but they didn't care about getting a number of points each year through different forms of education, and that's why we're now in a situation where reality can make us work on our own by law. Is that good or bad? It is certain that this proposal, which is now completely new, is given the opportunity to pass the exam if the necessary points have not been obtained through continuous education, the chance for all those colleagues who have not really done so in the previous seven years, but also the opportunity for us, the representatives of the citizens, to talk very openly about the fact that doctors, regardless of being the most valuable young people, and later the most valuable experts of this society, must have and respect a particular form in the interest of patients, which will allow greater safety and patients themselves. The way the committees are to be formed before them, the way the health workers themselves will go to these lays will be determined by a sublegal act and it is in the minister's office and I think it's very good, because the minister doesn't bring any acts by sitting down and writing something himself. He consults certain professional bodies, professional services, community of medical schools, consults all those who know the problem best. Therefore, I think that these amendments and amendments to the law are very important, that they represent the beginning or attempt to regulate the reform character of the health system, not globally, because it is not possible at this point, but segmentally it is beginning to edit. I think it is very good that the largest number of MPs already in the communications and discussions on the text of this law have actually found that the Ministry of Health has taken a good step at the right time. On behalf of the patients, on behalf of all of us who, in some circumstances, are going to be patients, I would like to sincerely thank everyone who has contributed to the composition of this text, because it is a step further in solving the major problems that healthcare still has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39520	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljiljana Kosoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39521	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vekic with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, MPs of the SPO and DHSS will support the draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, which is now in the assembly procedure under emergency procedure. We believe that it is only an introduction to further reforms of health care, especially primary health care, health insurance, the Law on the chambers of health workers, and the Regulation on relicence and the rule on continued medical education is expected. The bill will clearly define three areas in which there has been illogicalness so far. The first area is that the precise concept of healthcare professionals, teachers or co-workers of the medical professions teaching from clinical practice and from clinical subjects in a medical institution is in line with the rules on higher education, as well as teachers, i.e. co-workers of the medical professions not teaching from clinical studies and providing health services in healthcare institutions, will be considered healthcare professionals. The same member is prescribed that the agreement is concluded between the health institution of the network plan, the faculty of health profession and the RFZO, that these relations are regulated, that the rights and obligations relating to the provision of health services from compulsory health insurance are governed. What exactly do these members of the law define in practice? First of all, it is clearly defined as the status of professors, the uniformity of professor's salary at any university in the country, the way in which healthcare institutions are paid, it is united to pay through an agreement between health institutions in the plan of the medical profession and the RFZO, and another area, a traineeship for healthcare workers is equalized. The traineeship for healthcare professionals with high professional training takes six months and here are now covered, alongside the doctor of medicine, and dentists and graduate pharmacists. The third area is to clearly define the principle of renewal of the health care professionals' licence which have not met the requirements for the renewal of the licence. The healthcare professional is now required to apply for a licence test to the competent chamber within 60 days before the end of the licence year, i.e. licence period. When we talk about this law, I must point out that I am a pediatrician, as well as most colleagues throughout Serbia, aware that the development of health professions and new achievements require constant improvement of healthcare professionals and associates, and that is not the problem. The colleagues are mostly not against continuous medical education, as they have been doing so since they completed studies or specialization or subspecies. The problem comes from the chamber, i.e. a chamber, including a medical chamber that has not been medically in recent years, at least not experienced, but an inaccessible and unaccessible body that is there to pay membership fees, and in practice and not doing moves, there was a lot of illogicalness and unprofessionality that had left consequences. It would be unfair not to mention that in the course of this year, things have changed significantly for the better in the Medical Chamber itself, there is a sense of professionalism, thus growing and a belief that the chamber will not only be a professional association, but also a legitimate representative of all health care professionals, which is what the upcoming reforms relating to the Licensing Regulation, the Regulation on continued medical education. However, the Chamber Act is not today a item of the agenda, but the precondition for further reform and adoption of other laws is just to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act, which is on the agenda today, and MPs SPI and DHSS in the voting day will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39522	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Branko Djurovic. Here you go, Mr. Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39523	The Honorable Chairman, respected health ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at today's plenary session, are discussing the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Health Protection Act in nine members. The first member prescribes that the health minister, not the Medical Chamber, brings and edits an act on how to operate pharmacies. In addition to the transport of medical supplies, drugs on a small scale, this act also regulates the transport of certain other substances, some in the form of food for children, alimony supplements and other means that raise the level of health care of our population. The next member prescribes that teachers and co-workers of the Faculty of Health Professionals, who perform their teaching functions from clinical studies in health institutions, based on the Law on Higher Education, have the status of healthcare professionals. The third part of this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act is treated by our colleagues who have completed their basic studies in medicine, dentistry and pharmacies. Based on their statutes, it means in senior years, students have a practical six-month period. This, according to their graduation, continues in the form of mandatory medical training for the same duration of six months. So far, this has been about doctors of medicine, and with this bill, it will apply to dentists, graduate pharmacists and graduate pharmacists of medical biochemists. So we're going to have a practical year-long work where our students will have the opportunity to raise the practical level of their skills, not just the theoretical level related to certain knowledge. The fourth segment speaks of colleagues who for various reasons are unable to renew the licence. There is now a license exam where colleagues gain the opportunity to pass and continue their work in health institutions from the plan of the Republika Srpska network or in private offices. I would stay here on the Crucial Proposal, which is a proposal, which is to create the possibility that teachers and co-workers of the medical services college who teach clinical lectures, clinical exercises in healthcare institutions have the status of a healthcare professional. I am a neurosurgeon at the Clinical Centre of Serbia and a regular professor at the University of Belgrade Medical School. Based on the existing legal framework, I, who work at the neurosurgical clinic, am not a health care professional, but rather an educational worker who educates doctors, or medical students until his graduation, who educates doctors in postgraduate, whether this is the level of masterry, i.e. now master, or doctoral studies and at the level of their clinical specialization, i.e. subspecialisation. With this bill, finally teachers and co-workers of the faculty of health services get something that is really related to common sense, which is that they are also health workers. In the middle of this year, it was formed at the level of the National Assembly of Subcommittees within the Committee on Finance, which discussed public audit reports by individual institutions, by the DRI. The subcommittee made, practically conducted its first session on 10 June of this year and its basic task was to resolve the working-legal status of teachers and co-workers of the faculty of health services. At this session were guests of the Minister of Health, representatives of the Ministry of Education, representatives of the Republic legislation, and practically from that date began solving the problem of teachers and co-workers of the Faculty of Health Services, and this is not a simple job. It's a complex problem, which, not in recent years, has been put under the carpet for the last decades. The next meeting of this subcommittee was nine days later, so on June 19th this year. That's when the conclusion was made. In addition to the health minister, there were Minister of Education and Minister of State Administration and local self-government. At this meeting on 19 June this year, it was concluded that the Ministry of Health formed its working group to begin the debate and to propose how to resolve the working-legal status of teachers and co-workers of advanced medical schools. The Health Ministry working group began its work and the first meeting was on July 27th this year. The working group president is the current president of SANU, who is otherwise the former dean. Also, members of the Working Group are the current head of Belgrade University, which is also the former Dean of the University of Belgrade Medical College and the current current current current current dean. So, people who are absolutely involved in the problem and who have had the capacity to bring up problems and to propose certain measures to resolve these problems. Also within this working group were representatives of the Ministry of Health and Republic legislation, as well as representatives of the National Assembly. The next working group meeting was September 11th this year and as a result of this last working group meeting, the proposal came out. The problem is complex, but the first step should be taken and must be done, which is that teachers and co-workers of medical schools, i.e. medical services colleges, are promoted and defined, primarily defined, as health workers. It's not the end of the work group of the health ministry, it's just the beginning, but it was necessary to take the first step. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary club will be pleased to support the bill's proposal in a voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39524	I thank you, Mr. Djurovic. The word has a folk MP, Olena Papuga, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39525	Thank you, Vice-President, Minister Loncar with his associates, the Ministry of Health, the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will, in line with whether or not you will adopt our amendments, and vote for these amendments to the law. I'm just asking, if these amendments to the law will contribute to our workers not moving out, not leaving this country, then they'll really be supported in every way. I think it's a long-term question and I just don't know which amendments to the law and what regulation of our health care would help if our healthcare professionals didn't leave this country, and we know that only from the beginning of 2015 was the permit of a good reputation, which was needed for employment abroad by as many as 1,000 doctors, and we don't even know how many nurses, while in 2012, this same confirmation required only 200. So, I'm talking about our country being massively abandoned by healthcare professionals and maybe we'll get to the point that in a few years we won't have only good doctors, but also good nurses. Demeaning low sister salaries, stagnation in sisterhood development, unregulated high schooling, abandoning adequate rewards, the right values are the key reasons why healthcare professionals leave our country. I don't want to talk about it anymore, we just all know what's going on in our health care, but since the ministers are not coming to the Assembly on the last Thursday, I'd like to give my presentation to one question and please answer it. It concerns highly educated sisters. So my question concerns students, i.e. Highly educated nurses who have acquired the title of graduate medical care organizer at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad, University of Novi Sad. Since 2003, medical school, apart from studies of medicine, dentistry and pharmacies has opened and studied programs, basic academic studies of healthcare 240 points, and vocational studies of healthcare 180 points. The Republic of Serbia's budget allocates funds for 70 students each year in academic studies, with 30 self-financing students in vocational schools. A solution has been found in the education system for highly educated nurses, where they have a defined coefficient in accordance with the degree of education and accordingly an appropriate compensation for their work. There is a problem in clinical hospital practice where they have not yet recognised their professional names and fields of work after completed studies, nor prescribed by the general acts of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore there is no possibility of issuing licences as highly educated nurses. According to surveys published by the Republic Statistics Institute, 70% of all healthcare services are provided by nurses in the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, in Serbia, according to the Chamber of Nurses and Technicians, we only have 0.3% of highly educated nurses, while the percentage in Europe is almost 70%. In recent years, a large number of highly educated nurses, who were educated by the state, have gone abroad, and the question arises – is it the basic idea of academic education to strengthen the sister's profession or to study the ability to export? The Chamber of Medical Sisters and Technicalians of Serbia has repeatedly referred proposals to the Ministry of Health for the solution to the problem, and in the last time on 2.10.2015, it referred to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, proposals and suggestions on the text of the work version of the catalogue of jobs in health since 25.09.2015. In these proposals, the ministry can be seen that the university, i.e. academic health care studies of four years and 240 points reached are not covered by new systematicisation. I would like to ask you a question by referring to adopted documents when it comes to health care, such as the EU Accession Strategy, as well as the European Nurses' Education Directive. Why not solve the problem that highly educated nurses face, which is that their professional names and fields of work are still not recognized after the studies have been completed, nor are they prescribed by law and general acts of the Republic of Serbia, so they do not have the possibility of obtaining a work license, although in the occupation cipher there has been this interest since 2010? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39526	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39527	First, I thank you for noticing that we are doing things that will contribute in part to the fact that there is less interest in going abroad, and this is only one part of it, both for the internship, and for the licensing and all those things, that they are not making a problem here in Serbia, so that's just one part. This question you've asked has nothing to do with this law and what we're talking about today, but I have to tell you that we're already handling it. I'll tell you how, it's already in the working version of the national catalogue and the national qualification, which will be regulated and you recognize and recognize those schools, because under the current laws these things have to be done, to establish both catalogues and national qualifications, in order to make it all in the system. The other thing, let me say, it just doesn't depend on the Ministry of Health, which includes the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Education, is it not just one ministry that can bring it in. But I repeat, it's already in the work version. All those you mentioned that they wrote to the Ministry, they are absolutely included in chambers, and associations in solving this problem and not only that, but all the problems that can contribute to improving the health situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39528	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, as colleagues have so far repeated several times, we are talking about the Health Protection Act and a few amendments. One of these changes refers to the work of the Medical Chamber and the renewal of the licence. You have already heard that many doctors in Serbia will be in trouble, because there are not enough points to renew the license, after seven years of importance, and that this is a forced step, so that continued work in Serbian health can continue, that there is this license exam that will be decided closer, specified by the ministry, I hope and organised so that all those who have failed to meet the conditions in due time can access the exam so that they can continue their work on their own. There's no need to explain part of the pharmacy. It's something that's good and needs to be done by the Ministry. I mean, because he's doing all the work of that profession, so it's good that this supplemental part of those products that goes into the pharmacy is on the Ministry's list. About the status of university professors and associates and the translation of health workers, I understood that roof law, framework law, and that this would be more clear and precise by sublegal acts. Matter is very complex, very complex, very sensitive because on the one hand you have people who really deserve to be properly rewarded, and on the other hand you have the Republic Fund and it's very interesting how the Ministry will solve the way you pay for services in college, but I believe in all those staff, as Prof. Slavica, from the profession that will be involved in making it the best way and the satisfaction of the patients solved. What I would take advantage of, Mr. Minister, of your presence in the O.R., is that a new financial year is approaching, and I would suggest in a few notes that you make an effort to seek the return of 2% of the contributions that need to be made to health insurance so that you, the fund, will be more successful, more efficient, so that you have the resources you have and that the level of health care and patient rights remain at your level, with your efforts probably, and better. A few notes. You know that in the financial year 2014, the fund was the Republic Health Insurance Fund 236 billion. That it was projected to 215.7 billion because of the reduction in those 2%, but that the result of the overall savings in the country contributed to a drop in the rate of 90.3% from 165.9 billion, as the income of the fund was from profit, profit tax in 2013, in 2015, to 125.3 billion, which is 40 billion less. Hand to heart, it's the state, i.e. The finance ministry has allocated 30 billion in the budget, but it is not enough to cover the level of obligations and rights from mandatory health insurance that was designed, I say, in 2013, at 236 billion. What is still interesting is the obligation to pay contributions under Article 22. The health insurance law, which covers about a million and 300,000 Serbian citizens and which was projected at 12 billion by 2014, which is about 120 euros per insurance company. In this year to the first six months, the projection is at 530m, which is frantic four euros per capita. And I ask you to put forth an authority and effort to make republican finance, i.e. The finance ministry has adequately seen the area you're dealing with, because I understand the general savings, but the finance ministry needs to understand the need for Serbia's health care and that it's a system that, if it collapses or something goes down, it's very difficult to go back to the original state. The ministry is working and Serbian health is working, but with such a reduction, the question is what is the limit of endurance and to what degree it can be tolerated. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39530	The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39531	Thank you for your well-intentioned advice. I just want to let you know that we are in the most serious discussions with the Ministry of Finance and I really hope that we will have enough money for all the needs that are necessary for this system to work and for our citizens, for our employees in health care to be satisfied. I can tell you that much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39532	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Mladen Grujic. He quit. Then, the word has a People's MP, Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39533	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Loncar, respected associates from the Ministry of Health, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a law on health care, i.e. One minor amendment to several members of the Health Protection Act and whenever the topic is health care, I think the attention and the public, as well as the attention of all our MPs. Since whoever wants to lead the state of Serbia, whoever wants to lead reforms in Serbia, whoever wants to achieve an economic improvement in Serbia must understand that he must have a healthy nation, must have a clear and good health care system and in several members who are changing here, I would first start with this, when, as far as pharmacies are concerned, the Ministry of Health takes over. I don't think there's any dispute over that member and that change. What I want to point out to you is that perhaps I would make a recommendation in view of, as far as the pharmacy is concerned, that's okay with me, but only the Ministry of Health has been denied food control for several years now. The ministry was only left with the possibility of controlling water and controlling children's food. What about the rest of the food our citizens consume every day? What about border control? What about internal control? I think it's one topic that would have to look for a response from your Resort Ministry and require that these powers be returned to the medical profession, because whoever says -- well, yes, but that food is food and it should be with the Ministry of Agriculture. And I'll tell you that I don't personally agree with that. I didn't even agree when that change was because when cattle stop being practically alive, when they move into processing plants, when they're in store shelves, they become food, and the best thing to do is take care of the Institute for Public Health and the best to take care of the medical profession. I think it is something that needs to be changed in the next period and that Serbian citizens have better and better security who controls, how we control, what we eat and what quality it is that we eat in our country. As for the amendment of a member of the Health Protection Act when it comes to the chamber, I have a lot of things to tell you on behalf of the DS parliamentary group. I think it's a good thing that we re-founded the Medical Chamber in 2006, that it was an esnafic association of doctors, which was interrupted during communism, which was not good, had no power to preserve and resist the communist authorities, and that's something that we all need together as doctors to cultivate because this chamber is very important to our profession, important for the development of the health awareness of our doctors and citizens. At the very beginning when we talk about one problem, when the minister informed us that one number of doctors had not collected enough credit points and that we would have a problem because they would not get the license, I want to draw your attention to reality and reality. The very practical initiative of collecting points, credit points and some post education doesn't like it personally as a professor of medical school. I don't like it because it comes down to some situations just by coming to some cocktail and taking some degree and so formally the doctor met that one standard and he can get credit points. No, the idea of credit points and the idea of continuous medical education is something that's good, something that perfects our medical system and our health system. It is a liquid of Western and American states where a doctor is forced to perfect his knowledge through a serious work, not to stop learning when he finishes specialization rather than to invest himself for better treatment of his patients, that he must simply attend these instructional courses, that he must attend conventions where he will participate, and not as he is currently doing in Serbia in most cases, where you will have the opportunity to go where he does not control whether you participated, whether you have had a lecture, whether you have had a discussion, but purely come physically one day or one minute, take a credit point and return. I think it's also an anomaly where we have to as a ministry, you as the Ministry of Health, but also the Medical Chamber to realize that it's not just collecting money from the quotations for certain seminars that's important, but that it's precisely this purpose that you educate doctors, that you check their knowledge. I don't know what we could do through the Medical Chamber and the Ministry of Health to force the unification of the provision of health services in both Subotica and Vranj, and Kniæ and in Crno Trava. I'll tell you that many centers behave differently according to a certain diagnosis, behave differently in a medical approach. Is it because of inadequate and disproportionate practical medical equipment, and I personally think, besides equipment, that medical knowledge, that it has prevailed in some smaller centres a little bit and fear, doctors don't dare some interventions to work. So we have to work. If clinical centres, tertiary health institutions notice that some banal things are being sent from a particular centre, and banal things are being sent, a large number of doctors will simply not take responsibility, place a signature or put a scalpel on a man but are easier to write instructions and pass it on to Belgrade, Nis or Novi Sad. I think we need to take into account continuous education in a more serious scale, in a more meaningful extent where doctors would really be edicated, where doctors would engage through the collection of credit points to complement their knowledge. Maybe even a number of 20 and some credit points is big. It may also be a problem for small communities, small municipalities that have a large number of rural hospitals so they don't have enough doctors, they don't even have money, but they don't have enough personnel to send someone to Belgrade or Nis for a seminar or course, so he's physically forced. He can't make it all the way to Leskovec from Black Treva, let alone to reach Nis or Belgrade. These are all the dilemmas that open us practically this first step of the Medical Chamber, which started in 2006 to work. It is up to us as a health profession, certainly as the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chamber, as the Esnafic Association of Doctors, to find the best way to raise this quality of providing continuous medical education, with the aim of having better and better doctors, to have uniform knowledge in certain areas of medicine, so that they can provide it to the citizens of Serbia. What I have proposed several times to you and here in the Assembly, I have proposed to some other ministers, but they have not heard it, you have at least listened, I think you have even agreed, as part of our accession with the European Union, we need to agree on a specialisation programme with European norms and European specializations. Unfortunately for us, that's not the case. That chamber needs to be combined with medical schools, i.e. The community of medical schools together with you and the Ministry should simply take that step. Here, I'm going to give an example, I'm going to give you an example of anomalies, the ORL specialization in Serbia takes four years, and in the EU it takes five, so it's impossible for us to be smarter, so we're going to get over everything in four years, and these Americans and these Europeans are a little lazy, so it takes them five years. What we need to put more accentes on, it's practical work. It is good that education is done in chambers on instructional courses, but it is necessary to reform the system and education and medical schools and health care itself, that doctors, such as in Europe and America, that after the third year you direct it to whether it will go to the interns or go to surgical branches. Not all doctors are ready to enter the O.R. Many doctors also faint when they see blood, many doctors simply opt for other specializations, so that compliance with European standards regarding specialization, compliance with their standards, that they give more accents practical work. Unfortunately, we have such a program that makes children, makes the students of medicine learn, and they learn. These children who study medical schools with pride say that they are the smartest children and that they are the smartest high school students who finish medical schools, as my distinguished professor Slavica Djukić Dejanovic said, they are easily recognised by those diplomas in the West, and those children take up those jobs, but I am a witness that when they finish school, when they get a doctor's degree, when they're on the street, when they have a patient who faints, who has an anaphylactic reaction or when he has epilepsy or when he has a heart attack, the question is whether they can open a simple ampoule, and they know what a myocardial infarction is, they know everything, but theoretically, they don't know one ampoule to open, so that more accentes on this practical work, to change that pattern of behavior. We're saying that our education is the best, and we have, despite everything, despite the many difficulties, we have one of the best educational systems in health and medical schools, and I'm proud to say, but we need to realize that children need to be able to work practically, that when they get to practice in medical schools, they can get into the O.R., that they can sew up the compass, that they can catch the pea, that they can catch the tweezer. These are things that don't cost much, they just need a good will to be made possible, and that means a lot. It is one way to bind them and keep them in Serbia, to show them that they are welcome to us, to take care of those children, and that is also the obligation of the Medical Chamber, and it is also the obligation of the resolution ministry itself. What I also want, when the teachers of medical colleges, it's the third member of the amendment of this law, it's called health workers, it's something I've read many times, this member of the law changes, and I can tell you that it is a dilemma, it's not clear here all said, but at least I'm not nice, clearly understand. We're health workers and no doctor, no surgeon can say he's anything but a health worker, but college professors, university professors are professors. They educate young doctors, they educate students of dentistry, medicine, pharmacies and other higher education studies and they are professors. They become health workers when they take a scalpel, they become health workers when they start treating patients in the infirmary, and in an educational sense they are still professors of the university, professors of the university, and I think that one difference in the game of words was not clear to me, if it is aimed at solving that one decades old, one collapse and Gordi's knot about receiving a professor of medical colleges. I'm proud to say again that I'm a professor. The Faculty of Medicine in Nis and I can tell you that medical professors have the highest and most regular knowledge check, meaning from assistants, professors, extraordinary professors and regular professors, you have a continuous knowledge check, where you are forced to educate yourself, to write papers, to publish books, to publish monographs, to participate in symposiums, to hold a call for a lecture. It's the cream of our society, it's the cream of our health profession. My request and pointing to this problem is that we don't humiliate these people. They're a very small number in the voting body, not 700, 800 in the voting body. Even many doctors will say, "No matter what, they receive two salaries." Professors don't have to receive two salaries, but they have to respect their decades-old work and investment and giving up and family, giving up some private life. I think you'll make a mistake if it comes down to equalising yourself with a specialist's salary and being a professor and specialist in the same rank. They are not in the same rank, each has the same opportunities in Serbia to be educated, each has the same chance in Serbia of progress. Some can't, some can't, let these smartest people who have titles, help them pull back the state of Serbia, educate young doctors and students in even greater heat and not be practically brought down to some level and be even with someone. These are some things I wanted to tell you. What's in the context of education and that one work, I just wanted to turn to some anomalies practically, not in your term, but there were some things going on in health care, and a lot of journalists and the media asked that question before, they almost started the topic. I want to say from this place that I don't agree that in health care there are some services such as extra charge for some service type afternoon work on the magnet or afternoon work on the scanner or afternoon work on the installation of stent. These are the things that are in the doctor's job description and if there are citizens on the waiting list, it cannot possibly be an extra-standardly paid service. These are things that are part of a doctor's job and we're getting paid, so here I refuse any connection that requires something extra to pay. What I would also like to say to you, when we talk about chambers, we are a poor country and we have a very bad economic moment in Europe and in the world, and also in Serbia. There are anomalies where the results of certain hospitals, laboratory analysis, diagnostic scanner methods, magnetic resonances or some other diagnostic methods are not recognised from the center to the center. Is it going to come from Leskovec with some analysis, so someone in Nis will say no, who knows what these Leskovci were doing, we will do it further in Nis, and then send a patient to Belgrade, and then the people of Belgrade say, "Let's do it again." These are bad things, which cost the Serbian state budget, which cost taxpayers. I also wanted to draw attention to consumption and non-acceptability of analysis from private laboratories, from private institutions. This is where equating needs to be done, because we're talking about wanting to equate state and private health and enable that sector that exists to practically enter our state health care system. These are the things I wanted to tell you today. I think we all need to understand together, I'm using every opportunity to say that the United States is not the strongest military and strongest economy, but they're the strongest because of the ten world's leading universities they have seven on their continent and their country, that something that's most valuable that Serbia has science, they're those teachers, it's the health care that we have to protect. Professor Djukic, I repeat, and I quote it twice already, she said that our children, our doctors, are employed without a problem. It's the task of this generation of politicians to try and stop our wits, because many factories have been sold, many factories have been destroyed. Give that mind that we have to preserve, that it heals the citizens of Serbia, that it helps us, that it draws this Serbia into prosperity and prosperity and to improve, and not that it is easy to watch them pass and go to America or Germany that accepts our smartest children. This will end with a request to pay much more attention to young doctors, to allow them to stay in Serbia, to make it easier for them to get a job and specialisation after college. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39534	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39535	I'll start with this last one. As for young doctors, we've received nearly 1,000 doctors in the last year and a half. Young doctors who deserve, who were at the competition, who did not know what kind of connections, but were publicly accepted in a transparent manner in the Republic of Serbia. We will not stop there, others will be admitted, and not just them, but nurses and medical technicians, to correct the condition we have come to, which we have found. You know best what kind of situation we've been in and what our current situation is with specialists and how old they are, and if we're going to make it, because you yourself said that specialization takes at least five years, and five years has to go by for you to have. And when he's five years old, it takes him extra to get experience and stuff. So we fight the maximum and we do the best we can to make it happen. People see it, people notice it, and I want to let you know that our people from abroad are coming to ask around, they'd come back. We can't give them the salary they have there, but for some normal conditions, they'd come back and they'd already organize. We'll see to it that we organize, make it closer to them what we can especially for those people who have proven themselves and who have crossed their existence, who now have some other motive, to be here and to help. As far as food control is concerned, we've been negotiating with the Ministry of Agriculture for a few months now. We're not running away from that problem, and our proposal is, i.e. The proposal of the Ministry of Health is for it to be a joint commission and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture. It's our official position, and I hope it comes to that. As for the organisation of meetings and points, you're right about one thing, but responsibility is for whoever organizes it and who reports that he's got points. Well, none of us can go there and say -- you know, give me points, don't give me this, this one just showed up at the cocktail, this one didn't show up. I would remind you, on every course, lecture, or whatever, you get a test one at first. The organizer has to take responsibility, wash who he gave the test to, who completes the test, and when the test comes back, who gets the test back. In the end, it needs to be examined. You know how it goes, who approves it, who organizes it and what it does. So all people have to do is do their job and nothing else. If someone has already timed out, if they've singled out the money for accreditation, for everyone, whoever arranged it, who charged it, and everything, he has to be responsible for this and say whether anyone deserves to get those points or doesn't deserve to get points, whether he's done what he needs to do. I think that's where we all have to appeal to these people, and wherever we see such an example, we have to call and say that these things aren't happening, they're going the way they're really supposed to. As far as specialization is concerned, we are already seriously working on changing the law by introducing new specializations and by changing existing ones, but we are working with all the authorities, with associations, with chambers and with everyone, so I expect it to just come to work. As far as healthcare professionals are concerned, you certainly know that, every year a state auditor comes and says – people, this can't. That lasts, they say, over 30, and some say it lasts 60 years. Dear people, something's been going on for 60 years and everyone's been putting it under the carpet. Whenever that question arises, the state auditor comes and says – people, is it normal for you to work at the clinic, that you're also the director of the clinic, and that you don't have a work book at that clinic, you're not a worker, you're a college teacher? Guys, how is that possible? So, for 60 years, no one wanted to come in. Don't think there can be a final solution at once. Include everything, the rector, the president of the Academy of Sciences, the deans of the university, the MPs all, so let's get out. Don't let us push this under the carpet. That's what a million things come from, but we're not going to throw it out, because it says, "Stop, you've been working, you've done something." Well, you don't go to the clinic at all to work, you go to college, and you get two salaries. How? Everybody -- don't do it, let it go, don't touch it. Here, we now take that to solve. So this is a transitional solution until we make a final solution. We're not too smart to come up with the best solution right now, but we'll see where the best model in Europe is. Let's go to the EU, let's see how it's regulated, let's make it transparent. What we just did, let's tie it up. You can't work somewhere without being led to work here and receiving salaries and a work book elsewhere. It doesn't make any sense. Now we have to have that triple contract. Where you work, the RFO recognizes you and that you're in college. I don't see anything controversial, it's all going to come to you and you're going to have one single salary. I think that's extremely correct. That's what everybody needs to see, everybody needs to know. It's supposed to be published everywhere, how much pay he has, what he does, how much he does. What I want to inform you, and what's going to be a big deal, I think tomorrow we're signing a contract finally for IT for all of Serbia. It's that tender that was supposed to be sixm euros, but it's over by threem euros. We're finally signing tomorrow, after all the complaints of all the smart ones who've been trying to stop it, which brings us in a few months that we have, I hope by mid-Next year, and we've already had to have that red tape, a unique system in Serbia, so that you can come in here and see where the health care is going. He can't do more than that. Here, you see how much we spend, how much we do, what we have in our state, what we don't have in our condition, who works and who is what. What's been the problem so far? So that's some serious stuff. I'm saying again, this isn't definitely a solution, this is a transitional solution, so we don't break the law. Sixty years of breaking the law, but help us all make a final solution. Give some examples, if you know where it turned out to be good and it works well. You know what our strategy is? That we don't break the law, that we have a single reckoning. The next thing you mentioned was overtime. You mentioned examples of you, magnetic resonances. There can't be overtime working on the cells and magnetic resonances, because there's people waiting. So it can't. But I would remind you one thing, the Republic Expert Commission has abolished the charge of epidural anesthesia, where it was from hospital to hospital, this one wants to charge, this one won't, this one has to. Now, it's not charged anywhere, it's a procedure that has to be done, recognised by the fund, seen by the fund and paid by the fund. She's not even around, she's nowhere, she's gone. We will increase it, and we cannot bring it from the house, for the sake of the two of us, for the sake of the three of us. Well, it's to the director of the clinic. What was the problem with training people to do? Are they that busy? It's not safe. I think that was essentially what you asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39536	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39537	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Associates of the Minister, the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, before I leave with my presentation, I would like to refer to several of the things mentioned in earlier presentations. First of all, I absolutely disagree that this is about minor amendments to the law. Why do I say that? Because if we finally regulate something that hasn't been regulated by law by one law, and we see that this is about college teachers' salaries, I don't think it's about cosmetics or little changes. On the other hand, I have absolute education and everything that is related to the professional training of doctors, and not only doctors but health workers, I do not consider a small change. Also, you wouldn't agree with the information I received today from some MPs, that education comes down to the mere attendance of some cocktail gatherings or not, it doesn't matter, because here's why I think that's not the case. Because I think that we heard a nice exposure yesterday on the Health Committee from colleagues, Knezevic, who was still a professor in the 1990s in America, and for the first time met with continued medical education, because there was no official education of this type in our country, that it was mandatory to attend. The point of this story is that in modern countries, therefore, in the countries of the West, a continuous medical education is already being conducted, in the way we try to do it today, and not just trying, but I think we do it relatively well. Another reason I think that this claim is not true is that -- in order for a particular healthcare worker to get a number of points, he doesn't just have to attend meetings and be physically present at a particular meeting. He can publish scientific work or professional work in a domestic or foreign journal, he can be an exhibitor at a professional meeting or congress, he can simply publish a review of the case from his clinical practice. These are all ways to get him points. I think in that percentage part, I'm talking about analysis and the medical chamber, that such a number of points really don't have a small share in that total mass of health care workers points. What I was about to say today is that SNS MPs are truly expressing satisfaction today because the health law today is in the congregation benches. I'm saying this because I think that when it comes to health and health, most often we don't act like MPs, we act and all that deep human comes out of us. I consider this law and today's bill of law, in fact, and I view it as one sincere wish of the promoter that what has been recognised in the Health Protection Act, and what has not been good, be changed in the coming period. In short, I'm going to sum up a few of the most significant changes in the health system, in some, say, relatively short period. What is significant is that over the past year there has been a reduction in the waiting list by about 15%. You'll agree, it's a major breakthrough. I interpret this progress by a much better management and a much better organisation of the health system. Because the fact is, there was no economic incentive. So this basically all comes down to one conclusion that proper and better governance can increase efficiency. Of course there's room for further progress, but this information is also more than relevant. On the other hand, I also welcome the trend in the purchase of new, modern equipment, which may be created by regional leaders from our health care in certain segments. In particular, I will mention the procurement of a "gam knife", which I think will indeed make from Serbia's regional leader in treating certain ontological diseases. Also, as far as I know, Mr. Minister, that the purchase of new linear accelerators is in progress and the purchase of these equipment will make it easier to really deal with and facilitate the treatment of many patients with cancer. What I think there is room for further progress is prevention, especially in those areas, and in those malignancies where the percentage covers less. Because you'll agree, poor countries have to push for prevention. Where there's relatively little money, where relatively little money is allocated to health care, there should be the best prevention because it's the best way to make it practical in some perspective and reduce the issue of health care. What I can also praise and where I think a significant shift has been made is the availability of health care. This has been achieved through the establishment of a budget fund for the treatment of persons suffering from rare diseases, but also through the adoption of the "Zoja Law". In this way, the fact is that we have increased the number of children and young people referred to abroad. I will now return specifically to the amendments to the law that we are talking about. The first member to talk about amending the law is changed by the authority authorised to adopt acts governing the area of supply of citizens to childcare supplements, hygiene and cleanliness, child food. I find this particular member absolutely natural. Why? Because it's the Ministry that manages this area and the Ministry is exactly what's responsible for what's going to be the subject of traffic in a pharmacy facility. So, I think the member himself is like that and he's so formulated that he absolutely shouldn't have any objections. The regulation of the work of the pharmacy is therefore fully governed by acts adopted by the minister, as well as for all other areas of health care, one clear and clean situation. What I think may be the most significant part of this bill is the fact that for the first time the law is introduced in the field of regulation for university teachers, and not just for profit. Here, for the first time on the basis of a contract, i.e. a three-way agreement -- between the RFZO, on the one hand, and the medical faculty and clinics, so, health institutions, one will be made to define the rights and obligations of teachers who are both teachers and healthcare professionals within their clinical centres. I think this is how we get the first legality of these people's work, we get everything we haven't had so far offered a solution to this law. I can also say that they will regulate the way in which they pay for the health services they provide, as well as the resources that colleges receive in this way. This bill, in this sense and in this article, I see as a general regulation, therefore, the general regulation of this problem, and that the detailed regulation of this problem, therefore, all that is not described by the members of this law, will be regulated by sublegislatives and thus further define this problem. I agree with Mr Bradic when he says it is a complex problem because it is a real problem that requires adequate coordination and the Ministry of Health and the Republic Fund and all health institutions and I think and I have no doubt that the problem will be properly solved, I am now talking about sublegal acts. As regards this part of the bill, which regulates the implementation of a mandatory traineeship, I can say that the current law, therefore, applicable law, has regulated the area in a selective way. Selection in that sense, I don't think it's good. Why? Well, medical doctors did a six-month traineeship, while other healthcare professionals did other professions for an internship of over a year. I don't think it's good, because all health care professionals within the framework of the program, the college, the study programme, in the final year already had a good part of the content of the traineeship, and it was really too much for certain health workers to perform an internship of 12 months. I think this is how that injustice has been corrected against healthcare professionals who are not doctors of medicine, and they are higher education. Also, what made me particularly happy was one fact, which is that most of these proposals in this law were done and made in accordance with the agreement with the competent chambers, in accordance with the agreement with the Serbian Medical Society, therefore, with the Esnaf organizations, with the relevant institutions. I think communication at this level of the Ministry with all these organizations that I mentioned must produce quality. On the other hand, who, along with the Ministry of Health, would make the law, make health policies, except for those whose law is certainly relevant? As regards the existing regulation that regulates the field of licensing, they may say that in a member who mentions that when a healthcare professional has not renewed the licence, he did not collect enough points to renew the licence, in a law currently in force, he defines and that, after the period has expired, unless he has collected a sufficient number of points and has not renewed the licence, he can work under supervision. I think that this solution, as I read it, is nowhere in the region, which is very important because we have to follow not only the region but also Europe, but on the other hand, one question is the purpose of such work, such a doctor, such a health care worker. If a healthcare professional can't operate legally, he can't be chosen as a doctor, he can't issue a cure, he can't make a highway medicine in a galenical laboratory, which makes it possible for him to have the right to practically work under surveillance. The question arises what would he do, what jobs he would do, and, for example, what would he do? He's a doctor of medicine. So the bill of law states that this institution of work under supervision is being abolished which I absolutely think is valid precisely for these reasons I mentioned, and on the other hand, it leaves the possibility for a healthcare professional who has not obtained enough points for the renewal of the licence to continue his professional career within 60 days. I think, first of all, it's about having to think about the health system. In this way, the ministry, and I thus interpret it, wanted first of all to improve the health system by giving them the chance to correct that mistake, but in case they didn't want to correct it, I don't think that working under surveillance would be a solution in any way. What's also important about this law, for this member I'm talking about right now, is that some of the extenuating circumstances have happened for healthcare professionals. In particular, the number of points they need to collect has dropped from 24 to 20. On the other hand, it is possible to transfer points from year to year. All these reasons are making it easier for health care professionals to first and foremost understand education in a completely different way in a completely different dimension than it may be today, which is that professional training is necessary for us, that our profession, health profession is such that unless you follow medical fluids, newspapers in health care, technology, progress in technology and in diagnostics you stay in the past. What is even more important, it is now legally regulated that one who does not follow the development of medicine, the development of science in some perspective can endanger patient health. It is this way that the ministry does not allow the rights of the patient and the health status to be compromised in any way, because health workers who do not renew their knowledge, who are not educated and who do not validate the relevant certificates definitely cannot work under supervision. You'll admit once again that the point isn't just a point-gathering thing. The point is in one permanent education and learning, that's the point. The bottom line is self-sustaining, whose only possible outcome must be a better health system, improvement of the health system, more satisfied patients, that's the essence of change. This is the essence of collecting points, i.e. education. I hope that what I'm talking about, which is education cannot be left at will and conscience to a healthcare professional, but must be a duty again in order to improve health care. I also think this is a law we'll be proud of when we get out of the congregation benches. I also believe that in this way, this law adequately regulates education, licensing. For the first time, we regulate the process of working and earning employees of faculty teachers. Of course, I'm doing it today on behalf of all my fellow progressors who are making progress in the country, in this case in the health care system, the primary goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39538	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the list of registered speakers. The first on the list is Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39539	The Honored Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Health Protection Act is a need to comply with European law and a desire to integrate with European institutions. Bringing these changes and additions is an evolutionary process and modernisation within the framework of health care. In line with the reforms implemented by the Government, which JS advocates and in line with the austerity measures, the advantage of adopting these amendments and supplementing the Health Protection Act is the fact that tax bonds are being taken into account, no additional burdens are created on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is very important, but the means for implementation are already provided from the current budget of the Ministry of Health. Supporting these amendments and supplementing the JS Health Protection Act once again demonstrates their responsibility to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their care for their social and health care. Unique Serbia is firmly behind these changes and additions because it is easy to see how much benefits it brings to the people it refers to. In addition, the fact that all the interested parties concerned took part in the creation of these amendments and the additions. The advantage is that the law is not imposed, but the parties agreed and reached consensus on the provisions regarding these amendments and additions. The co-operation process was attended by the Ministry of Health, competent chambers of health workers and the community of medical schools. The advantage of these amendments and the addition of the laws is seen in Article 175 where a reduction of the traineeship for healthcare professionals is proposed from 12 to 6 months. The reduction of internships is important because during the final years of the study healthcare professionals had mandatory practice and the colleges agreed with the need for the internship to be reduced due to these circumstances. We all know that medical studies last long, that rarely anyone ends within the deadline, and they already have mandatory practice and thus is able to quickly enter into a working relationship. The important news of these provisions is that Article 198 was deleted from Article 2 which highlighted the possibility for healthcare professionals who were permanently deprived of their licence to perform jobs under the supervision of another healthcare professional with an issued licence. The proposed law adopts a paper and an opportunity in the amount of the licence under Article 191 and refers to a healthcare professional who does not fulfil the conditions for the renewal of the licence prescribed by this law as required to apply for a licence test to the competent chamber within 60 days before the end of the licence year. In fact, a healthcare professional who does not renew a licence under the conditions laid down in this law cannot carry out health work in a health institution, i.e. private practice and another legal person referred to in Article 54 of this Act. I think this is a good provision because it prevents any kind of abuse or even corruption. A single Serbia as a socially responsible party, i.e. the JS parliamentary group in the voting day, will support the law as well as other draft laws on the agenda of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39540	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. He's not in the O.R. The word has a folk MP, Marjana Maras, and let the MP Balša Bozovic be prepared. Here you go, Miss Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39541	The Honorable Chairman of Bečić, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, supports the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act for the reasons we believe that the proposed solutions will contribute to strengthening sustainability and fairness of the health care system. The proposed solutions create options for further improving healthcare and more efficient work of health institutions and private practices, as well as other legal persons performing health care. Also, these changes improve the quality of healthcare and contribute to improving patient rights through the improvement of the healthcare organisation. The proposed solutions are the result of co-operation by the Ministry of Health, competent chambers of healthcare professionals and the community of medical schools. Given that the Ministry of Health prescribes and controls the conditions for the operation of the pharmacy, as well as to control the operation of the pharmacy, it is necessary for the minister to adopt an act that regulates what can be the subject of drug trafficking. Thus, by amending Article 1 of this proposal, the law stipulates that, in addition to the transport of drugs and medical supplies to a small extent, pharmacy can supply citizens and children's food, child products, certain types of cosmetic and other health protection products in accordance with the act adopted by the minister. Under the law that was in force so far, the act was passed by a competent chamber. In this way, the regulation of the work of the pharmacy is fully regulated by acts adopted by the minister, as well as for all other areas of health care. Pharmacy is a health institution where pharmaceutical activity is performed at the primary level and it would really be necessary to leave it to the Ministry of Health to regulate with its general act the question of what can be done, in addition to the transport of medicines and medical resources to be the subject of drug trafficking. This change should contribute to the regulation of the apothecary sector. European apothecary has developed under the influence of Arab apothecary. The first drug stores started in the 13th century in Italy, France, and as far as Serbia, medicine and pharmacies were concerned, they developed in parallel with the establishment of the first medieval hospitals in Hilandar, Students and Decan. However, Serbia's first pharmacy was opened by a graduate pharmacist from Zemun, Mateja Ivanovic, who is considered the progenitor of Serbia's modern pharmacies. For many years, the apothecary sector of Serbia has been facing major difficulties, the surgical opening of pharmacies, unfair competition, non-compliance with the conditions of staff, giving enormous discounts on individual medicines at a margin not enough to cover the cost of the work of the pharmacy. Serbia is one of the few countries where the exact number of pharmacies is unknown, and according to chamber records, nearly 50% of pharmacies do not meet the requirements of the staff. For a long time, representatives of the Serbian Pharmaceutical Chamber and individual experts have been warning that all pharmacies should be clearly regulated, with the exception of drug trafficking and medical resources, i.e. children's food and child products can be supplied to citizens. That's how we avoided the fact that pharmacies in our desire to make as much money as possible look like independent shops with mixed goods. Influenced by a large-scale non-pharmaceutical capital in apothecary activities that do not normally have such a degree of responsibility, he contributed not only to the surgical opening of pharmacies and unfair competition between them, but also to the uncompromising obstruction of any rules that form the basis for the introduction of order into Serbia's pharmaceutical system. I hope that order will achieve this way, i.e. The solution where the Ministry of Health by means of a general act regulates what can be the subject of drug trafficking. In particular, state pharmacies face a number of difficulties in everyday work and draining patients into private pharmacies, which brings state pharmacies into a difficult material situation. I would use this opportunity, Minister, to commend the work of a pharmacy in the municipality of Vrbas, whose founder is SO Vrbas. The Municipality of Vrbas drug supply and sanitary material is organized by a pharmacy that has one city pharmacy, one branch in the city itself and eight other units for the issue of finished medicines. Each inhabited area has one unit for the issue of finished drugs. They are not detached from their own resources, they are not detached from the budget of the local funding for their material costs, they have renovated all the drug release units, reconstruction of these facilities, they are fully equipped and they have regained the confidence of citizens in state pharmacies. So there is absolutely no difference when the quality of providing services is between the individual private ones that apply to the best and our pharmacies, whose founder is local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39542	Thank you, Miss Marash. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected guests, what is the subject of the law, is an opportunity to ask some questions that I hope will be answered, although I am not competent to speak on this subject as much as of course the people who were authorized in front of the parliamentary groups, specifically Professor Dusan Milisavljevic. With his blessing, I will try somewhere to bring this topic closer to those problems that are viewed from the point of view by citizens as the largest today in Serbia and somewhere significant. When it comes to licences, first of all, for young doctors, the conditions for obtaining a license that these young doctors must meet by law and you know for yourself what a big problem it is when they are at issue and you know what a problem it is today, especially in Serbia, when employment in young people is so low that Serbia is slowly ahead of the jobless young people in Europe, but also those who are really the most educated and those who, immediately after completing their studies, are slowly looking for a future or security in another country, in another system. When it comes to young doctors, we have the case that educations organised by institutions, i.e. which are directors of institutions, are required in their annual plan to organise, are often the victims of longtime mutual relations among colleagues and are often those who remain deprived in this way for various conventions and conferences, where education in this sense is completely unreachable for young doctors. What's true is that DS and it's completely honest and open, in previous years it's been missing out, it's just health and education and we've kind of always left it to some of our coalition partners, starting in 2000 in various governments, until 2012. So what it is is a DS mistake, we tried that, and I think we have completely successfully corrected the examples of people representing these two areas today, that is, those two policies. Professor Miodrag Stojkovic and Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic are actually representatives of the two areas today when it comes to DS policy. In the future, we will certainly solve this in a more comprehensive and much better way than so far, because governments have done all these problems and not only when it comes to young doctors, but when it comes to the overall health system. A transitional solution, especially when it comes to double salaries, we don't think any government should advocate transitional solutions. Keyly, we need to have a final solution that will solve all these problems in a very thorough way. Whether or not it's moral, I don't want to get into the fact that someone is receiving two salaries, but we certainly need to be aware that these are the people who know the most. These are the people who have the greatest experience in Serbia and these are the people who actually form the pillar and foundation of the health system in Serbia. They are, in fact, not adequately paid for their work. They are not adequately paid for the simple reason that their colleagues have multiple higher salaries and than the collection of these two they had in the Republic of Serbia and you know it best. When young doctors go to Germany today, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, many other European countries, you yourself are aware of the standard there of some professors who do two jobs here and with their experience really represent a pillar of the health system. We don't think that's right. Today, Serbia is the only country in Europe that has reduced salaries to healthcare workers. Some have frozen, some countries have decided to keep health workers' salaries at the same level, but many countries in times of crisis and times of difficult situations, especially in the economy, have even increased their salaries to healthcare workers. That's a fact. That's, of course, information that can be checked. Serbia, unfortunately, had no feeling, had no hearing that they were most professionally detained today in our country. As you know, citizens have fears. One of the greatest fears is the inability to treat. What's a fact is that this story, which has been going on for years, years, and especially now in the last three to four years, is that young doctors, and not only young, but also the most professional, are slowly leaving the country. We have been talking about that since 2012 more than 100,000 people have left Serbia. Among them are the most professional, not only in health, but also in other areas. This fear of inability to treat citizens is growing deeper and deeper and bigger, for the simple reason that even in one media way, there is no impression that it is working on it. We think it is very important for this very reason that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and certainly it will, and not only mention DS experts and resolutely in charge of this area, but every future government must address these problems comprehensively. I don't want to owe you any longer, but what we expect and what we expect citizens are not, Minister, transitional solutions. We need to have comprehensive solutions and we need to have a final solution that will solve this topic and even these problems that Serbia faces today once and for all forever. I think it deserves citizens who are going through a difficult situation, a difficult crisis, and they still don't feel the need for security from institutions and states when it comes to the health of the nation, when it comes to all the challenges facing today people who work in health care and those who expect some efficiency from health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39544	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has a minister in the government, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39545	I'll take the turn. As far as health institutions are concerned, it was a matter of manners, and that's what was either interrupted or interrupted, that the relations in health institutions were according to the principle of party membership, and so it was determined who was going to make progress, who was going to go to education and what his status would be, it depended on the party's booklet. The party book was supposed to be from a doorman, from a janitor, not to mention charging for employment, not to mention tariffs that were tariffs with a party book and tariffs without a party book. You all know it well and we all know it here. There's no reason to pretend we don't know anything now. That's how it was. What I'm about to inform you about, what I've done, is there's almost been a meeting, where I've banned, with all the directors, the directors of the facility, that I can't hire doctors or other staff to communicate through the secretary or the sister, because they're not in the same party or because they don't like each other or because they don't like each other. They don't have to talk when they get out of the facility, but they all have to communicate directly and everybody knows about the patient everything. The one who doesn't, there's no reason to expect him to stay in that place. The same goes for education and for everyone where principles are established, where you now have a job competition, where you have those waiting for specialization, where you get specialization. But I'm glad you said nothing was done in health care. That's why there's been a change. Fear, that fear has led to change, not something else, that fear of citizens, nothing else, believe me. Next thing you know, it's definitely a solution to give. I'm telling you again, we're not smart enough to give the solution right away. Sixty years of breaking the law. Now, between continuing to break the law or stop breaking the law, and in the meantime, finding a solution, go ahead, suggest it, give it. We're not smart enough. The president of the Academy of Science, the vice president of the university, the Deans of the Medical Faculty, here people of the Assembly, in the legislation, of all things, were the only ones who could come to this solution. Is that what happened, Djurovic? Here, everyone involved. Come on, we can't wait. Give us a solution. There's no problem, but it has to be in accordance with the law. Don't, if we've broken something for 60 years, don't break it anymore. It doesn't have to stay beneath us. Regarding the salaries of health workers, it wasn't at all a topic that they weren't enough, but the theme is what we promised people and what we said – let's pay our debts to those you talked about, that I don't repeat, that our children don't pay. It's fairer to cut us down, to get them out of it, that they can have a higher salary tomorrow, not that we're unreally giving them a higher salary, and then get them all charged. I think it's more correct. That's what we promised, and we're doing it. One more thing, the fear of citizens is getting smaller, and you know that, too, about health care. They felt that something was done and that it was done honestly. You have nothing in health care, no affair, no tender, no sales, no problem for a year and a half. Say one problem, say where something was paid, and it's not the lowest price in Europe. Find an example, find a problem. Do you remember what happened? Every scanner was on the front page, every magnetic resonance, around the price, around the manufacturer, so you shop, buy a scanner, and you don't buy a work station, and the scanner stands in the warehouse, and the guarantee points out. Do you know how many there are now? That's the point. But the citizens are here. They see, they look, so they'll judge for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39546	Thank you. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from town: Replica. Why do you think you have the right to a replica? (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the post: As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. You can't, you have to have a basis for replication, but you don't. There's no mention of DS. (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the scene: The period of crime, to remove it. It's not worth convincing myself about. The word has the People's MP Dr. Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39547	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, co-workers from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, today we have the opportunity to talk about legal solutions within the framework of the amendment of the Health Protection Act, which has been brought by a group of experts, addressed people, people who are very well aware of the problem in the law and who are obviously from the aspect of their functions, in the extreme neutral and non-political places, should not be questioned that they chose and sought the best solutions to the problems identified which, after so many five, six, seven, ten years of the operation of this law and its application, we then, what we once said as an opposition, are not the best solutions, and now as people in power, we say that the law should be changed, that some of these changes are done. They're not irrelevant, they're not meaningless. It concerns a narrowly defined segment that the law covers, with the intention that we are now speaking in such a way that it is necessary to make certain changes here, so that we are not in a position to be like some speakers, perhaps in a year, two, three or five of us, and we attribute to others the reasons why something has not been done in our term of office and has not been changed. So there are abnormalities that are very important for the functioning of the health system. We often, conditionally speaking, and healthy people are not recognizable, nor are we recognizable to those who are not dealing with the problem of medical education, who are not dealing with the problem of education of students, specialists doctors, people who are in master's and doctoral studies, at higher levels of education, as the Bologna system gives us in a three-stage education system. So there are some elements of the problem that are being considered in this law everywhere. One who is fundamentally, hierarchically first mentioned is the question of the jurisdiction of one who will assess what will be found in the pharmacy. I just don't remember if, when the law was passed, then as an opposition party, we just put the amendment on that the Doctor's Chamber prescribes what's going to be in the pharmacy. It's quite illogical, because the medical chamber can't call the inspection and say – check this out, is this good, is it high enough, whether the institutions have passed checks or not? It's logical if it's done by a minister, then it's got instruments underneath it. If he's in control, he can run. Why are we saying that? Because today we are full of various social networks, even public television, radio shows in which people from the profession are exposed to citizens' questions whether what can be obtained in the pharmacy, above all, as parapharmaceuticals, therefore not as a cure, generic or original medicine for which there is a clear procedure for coming to the shelves, can and possibly have a certain advantage over others. Not getting into all of this, we're here to give each other legal and legal flows, regular flows, to open up a way that they're going to and which way they're going to find something in the pharmacy. Pharmacies are institutions of private or state that citizens believe in. If we taught them not to buy in cosmetic salons, that they should not buy in houses that sell cosmetics, or in fleas or green markets, for medicine and for what is issued, as an auxiliary medicine, go to the pharmacy, then we need to open the door of trust, even at least a third of the volume of products sold today in pharmacies under those other purposes, without being drugs or medicinal substances. The second important part of this law, where the expert group worked and gave its opinion, is the introduction of teachers, lecturers and co-workers to educational institutions under the Law on the Higher Education System in the so-called so-called "High Education System". Health workers, to simply link two laws on the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Health Protection, so that the same people can be categorized in a legally regulated way in those who, by legal basis, have their income covered. Now there is often a different discussion. I, of course, like a man who is both on the one hand and on the other, have to bring up some things that may not have been brought out here. The teacher, professor of regular, extraordinary, doctor, assistant, as he hierarchically descends, is at the same time someone who shows and helps students, and then goes up and helps those who are completed doctors and those who go to higher levels of education, so in continuous continuous learning and bearing medical attitudes and doctrines towards their colleagues. Thus, someone who is with the professor, his closest associate, constantly following him in his profession, is actually in continuous continued medical education. So, a specialist doctor in a visa next to a professor, it would be expected, should hear this one resolve his dilemma about a particular patient, help him get faster differential diagnostic orientations, hence being useful and getting a registered medical education from his colleague anywhere. Doctor professor, doctor, etc., doctor who is above the level of basic in clinical centres, because they concern them, who have colleges, at the same time, is more than the level of a specialist doctor, because they will have to carry out their profession when he is in charge of the operational and educational affairs of the education of his students. It is not unclear and it is not incorrect and it is not difficult to check that many of such teachers and associates at the time of the introduction of this ominous Bologna system, when many were racing for licenses and getting the right to enroll in their colleges a number of students, and then for financial or other reasons, the prestigious of some kind, they entered a double number of students, and wanting to meet the standards that, let's say, there could be 70 or 80 students in that hall. They weren't all doing it, they were smart, but some who did it did it on the teacher's burden, so we were forced to give the same lectures in one day, two times four hours, eight hours. Among these, you have been at your workplace, at your clinic and worked in various volumes, and different clinical cases have contributed to the health system and education system. It was terrible when he was once on one of the departments of one lecturer. In time, the number of lecturers and teachers increased, and the work was divided evenly. What is proposed to be introduced into the system, to create a framework mechanism of the agreement, in which these people will be paid for their work, not to go out with demagogue estimates – receives two salaries. That's what we often get caught up in and asked the citizens. It's nothing secret. They tell us all that, but they don't know that we do two or three, often parallel, but much more physically separate processes and educational and health care and health care work that we do. Everywhere and in every place they have to be adequate, fair and, I'd say, balanced at the state level for that. If the legal norms and the need to limit it, for the sake of the need of the Pension Fund, limit the fund of the class and so far there have been solutions that limited the number of effective working hours that went to the PIO Fund. It couldn't be sent to the PIO fund that you had 50% more hours in one week or in one month than you have. There were mechanisms that were not legally regulated and the sublegislative acts were passed, and now we have put it in a clearly visible and obvious way to know who was involved, why and how much it should be rewarded. The issue that's being discussed here, the issue of medical training, you know, I've often spoken here, I'm going to talk about this vicious Bologna scheme, the way you learn, the destruction of the education system, whose sworn enemy, I've shown the diversity of the programme at medical college studies in Serbia. I've got that scheme on me now. I gave it to all the reference ministers, to initiate an initiative to change something, but I watched it, at the same time, that what they have in common is the last year, the sixth year, the 12 semesters in which they have the most subtle elements of direct clinical practice that should theoretically be achieved when they go on a practical internship. So that part of five and a half years and the rest of it up to six years they spend on a particular kind of clinical practice, learning about it and the subject, most often, the emergency in medicine, and where more ideally – theoretically and practically, almost only remains to do the job by prevention, the job in general practice, and thus their circulation would be rounded up. It's no more rational to apply what we recognize to doctors to other professions. Of course, as we have done with these amendments of the law, I think this evaluation of the internship is quite relevant, quite good and there should be no objection, because it really is a specific structure. On the other hand, we can appreciate the effects of Bologna, say they're all masters. It's paradoxical. We who did not pass and became, we know that by becoming masters, or masters, we learned a narrow area, we dealt with it, we ruled it. This is now a doctor of general master practice, master. It's not this law we're talking about. It is the general political assessment that it is of considerable benefit to us, although it is not on the EU's terms agenda, we still have it. We'll see what the consequences will be. I'd like to take a look at the comment on how the kids are going out. There's no one's right to move to find a way to live better and better, to receive a higher salary, to check himself in the conditions of another environment and different options. We're not doing it. The state has done enough. We can only dream of times or dream of returning deep into the “back group, ” when thousands of young doctors were received in a year or a little more than that. I'm a witness to the way they were admitted. To show up at work and say, "The job is me and that one." Usually the official, director of the public enterprise, directors of the ruling parties. These children were not expelled, these children were not returned, their stay was illegal, which had no clear definition, in which they entered, wrote the history of the disease, moved there, were polite or rude, said good day, did not say, they were moving somewhere, were in front of our eyes. That's how they came to work. Usually in pre-election campaigns, usually when something bad happens, it was a signal that from then on known political parties led by the minister were mostly such, but when other political parties here today say that these solutions are not good enough, that they think they're better, etc., and not proposing them at the same time... It's the kind of environment that people come to us, kids come to us. These children are not to blame for being the daughters or sons of a political official. They were children with a good average. They used to be without a good average. About how triage was received and how among them is made, who gives more or less, it is a special story and deserves the activity of other organs. Fourth, what I would like to say, and what I would like to welcome to these changes that stand, is the issue of licensing. We've run out of license periods, and now we've all been teaching at the end of the year until October, in November, the papers we've been collecting on which it says how many points we've won. These points, most of us have more than we need, but we're all going into one of those kind of traps, traps, whether what we've been listening to, what's often mentioned here, is possible and with the right of some speakers, that everyone could have listened to everything and anything to physically soak up the number of points. She was recognized by the Ministry, the Chamber, etc. This danger, recognised the cost of costing one point, which over time is falling more and more, because more and more accredited courses are emerging that are not being paid, so it is easier to come to this, because the director's obligation is legal to enable, just a word – to enable, and not to pay both the absence and the price of the point, so it was written that it actually gave the opportunity for many directors to abuse jobs and that such subservient, their workers at their jobs doctors, nurses and others do not go to education. It's a big mistake, and they need to get out of that problem. The way it was proposed seems to me the only logical way, because it would be impossible to create a "back group" education with topics that have been processed, that within a few months, they are now making special types of education for them. It was given to the Ministry of Hot Potatoes to come up with, together with expert teams, what these exams would look like, the theoretical part, the oral part, what they would cover, what is the predominant activity of that teacher or that specialist doctor or general practitioner, which he deals with. So, for every level, it funds the conditions it needs on that test, because it's going to be a hard and responsible job. No one here was happy that this way had to be approached. I wasn't fascinated by the fact that we're going to get points like this or that or that we're going to be called physically. The solution the world gives to ensure a permanent presence, it's just a bar code with that machine. It simply measures the number of hours you enter, no convention in the world you can't get in or out of the gym, even if you smoke a cigarette, it'll encode you, and they'll add time to you there and give you points. It can be introduced to us. You've got these bar codes everywhere, every college has. It is not difficult to create code readers and when accredited, those who are accredited and whose accreditations are accepted, often write a wide diapazon of participants. I agree here with some who put it, from doctors of general practice to subspecies. Maybe that's not the way it's supposed to be, maybe the Tempter they got from the Health Council was such that it's more of a fund-raiser, and it appreciates the one who writes more of the participants. It's not necessary. Everyone will find their place where they will be able to score 20 points conditionally, 10 points so move it, we are now left with this act, which is probably 1000, 2000, I don't know exactly how many of these people have left without a license and without the ability to extend their mentor's right to work, apply adequately, perform that exam, and of course that exam won't be a head cut. It won't be a test that's harder than their specialist and subspecies exam. It's unimaginable, but simply checking, waiting, I guess, I'm not in that commission, what changed in medicine in the meantime, which the doctor should do, by doing the doctor's general practice to a specialist doctor at a particular health care facility, at the level of the health system, can be recognized as a novelty and be adequately involved in restoring his license, and then there's a lesson, because that license test will probably cost, that he has his stressful elements, stressful motives, but otherwise we can't get out of this. So we can't provide many mentors, it's not a good way to make sure someone's a mentor at the hospital, and that mentor doesn't have that general in practice, at some point, we can't do that for a pharmacist, for a biochemist to find an adequate mentor. Who in the private office will be the mentor, boss. It's better not to make that inequality, that probability, disrespect. Finally, the question of responsibility and under mentor's supervision, this one can make a mistake, hot, inhospitable, so what, would a mentor answer for it? It is better to resolve it in this way, formally legally, that the Chamber has a clean man before it to comply with the powers it has, not excessive powers to define KME, etc., the Health Council mainly deals with this work. Artists, those who perform education can be really different profiles, from college to etc. They can perform an education program, it's a very clear thing. It is impossible that today in Serbia, it is not easy to find two or three times a year, to go somewhere to do it. Especially when individual education is done completely free of charge and it is only necessary to have the will to leave, because within one day you can get in the fund of the class being conducted, you can get four five or six points if you are a lecturer, or 10 if the lecturer is a higher level. So it's not inconclusive. I'm not saying I'm happy because sometimes our ways of education that were a school of cardiology, a school of dialysis, innovations in medicine, internalistic days, the days of general practice in Vranjska Banja, congresses, took four days. There were covered all the topics and certainly the one who visited could have volunteered, but not everyone could have gone, this preferential relationship between the directors, the head of the service, the chief of staff, God asks you, the political influence of someone and today on world conventions, you think teachers go first? No, no, those who were most in the hands of pharmaceuticals who took this or that material and were good consumers are going. It would be logical if some priority had been given to teachers, teaching staff, who would go to international conventions, bring knowledge from there, convey, conduct secondary education of what he learned. Let's say you send an ordinary intern, a man goes there, sees the world, etc. The question is how much the current problem understands because of the ignorance of the language without talking about the lack of instruction of the expert. But these are all the things that need the management of health institutions to solve, when it comes to education. Not all of this can be put in the framework of command and legislative activity, nor in the hands of sublegal acts created by the Health Council or the Medical Chamber, who should go where. I'm talking about moral conscience, the responsibility of what wasn't in the former health care management system, but rather a large number of nepotism and political influences, and this has, in one way or another, stopped the ambitions of many people, stopped their career progress, produced a number of stressful situations in many people, that they started to think that such a way of dealing with medicine, such a way of dealing with education, simply being translated into a passive state, doing just what you have to do, in order to avoid legal sanctions. Motivative and unmotive, unwillful lecturer, the teacher are completely two different things. There's nothing new you can see or hear, students can feel you after five sentences you say in class. It's not your motivation just your personal condition, it's just what you came to class with, it's a lot of things that are still defined. Some of the problems we are affecting today, I believe successfully, and that is why I, as well as other members of the SNS, will support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39548	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jovana Jovanovic. He's not in the O.R. The word has been made by MP Alexander Peranovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39549	Dear chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia who are following today's meeting, we heard that this is seemingly a relaxed amendment to the Health Protection Act. I'll say it's not a bit like that. These changes are essential and they change our health system in the direction they're going. We've heard from the minister since 60 years ago we've been coming up with some changes regarding professors at our colleges, about our teachers. I'll say it's not exactly an accident. When we had the previous minister about ten years ago, who was being treated abroad, how did you think there could be a change in some health system and a change in the Health Protection Act when the first Serbian health care man had no confidence in his colleagues. On the other hand, it is unacceptable for lawyers to comment on the health system and to bring it to court. It's an honor to them. I'll start with a professor at medical school. It's a great thing there's going to be a three-way agreement between a medical institution, a university and a fund. We'll sort out that system with those sublegal acts you've listed, and I'm convinced there will be no more failures of those that have been so far. Of course, nothing is simple. These processes are difficult, they are in line with European legislation and we, as we seek to join the EU, have our laws in this direction and form. What's the big deal? It's about investing in science. Science investment is the most rewarding. We have one thing here, that, besides the professor, we also have the final students of health care areas, doctors, dentists and pharmacists, whose internship will be even. So far, that's been different. We've all been to senior year, like Professor Poscurica said, emergency conditions. Now it will be six months, and after that internship, it will be accessed by other tests and checks. Licenses are something that's been in the world for years. We've been teaching these months, or these licenses have been locked up. I must point out that the quality legal solutions and changes of the Health Protection Act were preceded by yesterday's session of the Health Committee, which was, behold, there is Professor Djukić Dejanovic, extremely high-quality, constructive by all members of the Committee. When you have one such committee, then surely both these laws and today's debates are heading towards quality and in a positive direction. Yesterday, none of us, the board members, agreed that we were collecting points. It is a continuous medical education and collecting points can be in bookies or some sports events. Here is one professional training, including younger, older, teachers, teachers, all have to work on themselves and renew their knowledge. In my opinion, the key role in this will be for the directors and members and presidents of the boards of directors, and above all I think about the inside, to raise it to the highest possible level and not to put it the way it is now. The steps that are proposed, the things that are proposed are great. First of all, we were all in college trying not to have 24 points or points, and now we're 20. Minimum per year is 10. Seven years per 20, that's 140 points that have to be collected. During specialization, it's 10 a year. These are things that will make it much easier to accomplish these things. On the other hand, if we make some doctor go to seminars, consults, conventions, then there's nothing going on with that job. So far, it has been up to now that pharmaceutical houses have come out and they're paying certain doctors to attend these conventions, and that's how it worked. But publication of professional papers, scientific papers in various and domestic and world journals is something that we must all as health workers take responsibility for ourselves. It's work on itself and through this mode of operation we will raise our health system to the highest possible level. However, these changes are difficult. These are changes in the economy, changes in the health system, but also contitio sin quo non, is the essence that we must change ourselves, accept modern trends. You heard from Professor Djurovic, from Professor Poscurica, the authorised representative of SNS Dr. Laketic, where the medicine goes. She's no longer the same, five years ago as she is now. Every day we develop, including these events that are present in Serbia, the honor of you ministers and your associates, gamma-knife, linear accelerators, that's the future. We must go in this direction – differential diagnostics, all that is needed, it is of vital importance to us. I am convinced that the entire SNS Group, like all MPs, will eventually, because this is not on one side, this is important for the whole country, for all health workers, to support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39550	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39551	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, being a doctor is not just a title that gives rise to privileges. Being a doctor means hard work and learning for the rest of my life. So I was also a little surprised at the comments of some colleagues who unfortunately failed to collect those 24 points per year in the previous seven years, because they had the feeling that they were forced to do something, that it was humiliating for a certain professorial code, and they forgot that as respected teachers, teachers, they could accredit their lectures and in a very easy way achieve these desired 24 points, for a very short time, and that young doctors next to them could gain quality knowledge, which they could apply. As a preventer, I remained also caught up with comments – why do we need certain seminars as to how we should properly wash our hands? It all started with cross-infections, from transfer from one department to another, and we know, when an infection occurred, then we remember the Institute of Public Health, the epidemiologist, the hygienologist, then we need the preventers, and in the previous 12 years, from 2000 to 2012, everything was made to disappear. Prevention, which is the cheapest, most useful in health care. Then, since nothing was right in the previous period, they started from the creation of so-called. preventative centres as parallel institutions already existing institutions, which in my opinion have never lived in full scope, and unfortunately many diabetics, have been shut down so-called. Centers for diabetics, or counselling centres for diabetics, which, thanks to the Ministry and Minister's understanding, we are returning to our health homes today. So it was during this previous period, and of course we cannot now give ad hoc solutions, solutions permanent and final, because, our health condition, practically our entire health care, has been very collapsed in the previous period. These are initial steps, excellent steps, and I think that's how we should proceed. It is very good that a reduced traineeship for practically all healthcare professionals who have completed their seventh degree, i.e. have a higher education, since one part of that traineeship is incorporated during that sixth year of study. That way we'll allow them to get to work faster, specialize. Six months sometimes means a lot. That's another good step. What it refers to is so-called. licensing and collecting points, I wouldn't call it that, but it's a continuous medical education, but it's something that's absolutely necessary, because knowledge in medicine is practically doubled in five years, even for a shorter period of time. The modern physician must follow not only new trends in medicine, but also trends in technology, so that by increasing the number of narrow specializations and various techniques, both in diagnostics and in treatment, we must have one modern approach when we are doing the work nomenclature. That's what's very important, and I call on all of our colleagues not to miss one very important moment, and that's a definition of relationships, so-called. The nomenclature of professions ahead of us, to clearly define what interest our future healthcare professionals from some high-level vocational schools will be and what their size will be, what these children will essentially be able to do and what they will be able to provide to patients. So that's one thing. Second thing, I also invite my fellow health care professionals to join in making so-called. classification of jobs when determining public sector wages. We'd better do it now that it's a public debate than it's too late afterwards. A good example of how the health profession, thanks to its vanity, lost its race when it was the Health Rightness Act, or the Food Safety Act, on the agenda, so now we have a big problem, a big problem that not only the doctors who deal with it, but also our fellow citizens. I think it's very good that the traffic in pharmacy institutions is being placed under the auspices of the Ministry of Health, because we know that sanitary inspection is someone who is in charge of control and childcare facilities and general use items, meaning, and galenical products that pharmacies, certain pharmacies institutions have in their plan and programme. I'm asking another question -- how are we going to control drug trafficking, a health food store or certain perfumeries and the same baby supplements that have active substances that have a very important effect on human health, and can even endanger patients' health if they are not used in a proper and adequate way? They're not harmless substances. At the end of my presentation, simply, I would like to invite all parliamentary groups to vote in favour of amendments and additions to today's law we're talking about, because I don't think that's the first step, it's the only one. So we should continue, and I think we will have health care revitalised, to the joy and health care workers, and to the joy of our patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39552	Thank you, Mrs. Rakonjac. The word has been given by the People's MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39553	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members, I would like to take part in this debate on today's health care bill proposal, although I am not a doctor. I simply cannot agree with this and similar laws, they can have their own opinions and should have their own opinions, only doctors participate in the debate, for the simple reason that we as politicians deal with all absolute issues, we follow certain areas. For example, as a sociologist, I was also able to work at the Ministry of Health, the health care institution, etc., and I consider myself, and especially as a patient, as a user of medical and medical services, very much invited to give my opinion on the state of health care and in general in providing health care. When it comes to, today, the bill that is before us, I want to apostrophe a few things that were very important to me. First of all, I want to support, of course, a complete bill proposal, but especially, let's say, to look back at the location of the pharmacy, to support the initiative and the proposal that pharmacies like, I can say, a kind of health institution, of course, turn into a real center for providing those real substances, medicines and other necessary means to protect the health of patients, or all residents, and not to be, as on many occasions, we can see it today, a retail shopping centre, as we have been able to hear from other discussions so far. When it comes to pharmacies, I think it is also important, which should have the proper attention of the ministry, to monitor the network of pharmacies located on the ground, because on the one hand, we can see, many private pharmacies are located in the center of cities, alongside large shopping centres, in places that are very busy, etc., while, for example, with full respect for respect for respect and confirmation that this is very important and necessary, in many villages beside health centers, mostly state pharmacies. From the point of view of their sustainability, from the point of view of their material conditions in which they operate, we cannot say that they are in the same position as those private pharmacies that are located within large city centres and I think that the ministry in relation to their position, position, their sustainability, which is very important, must provide adequate support, attention and support them in their future work and their survival. When it comes to the content of the pharmacy itself, I will only mention something that has become current in the past few days in the public, I am sure that the ministry is paying great attention to this, and this is the offer of medicines in our healthcare system, from the point of view of the use and use of innovative medicines, which are on the world market, and their availability in our treatment system. I believe that this is largely, when it comes to the old forms of medicine, etc., something that was inherited largely, something that we can't change quickly, but I'm sure that with one of these policies of the ministry, new medicines will be more and more in our health system in the future. I would like to stress this opportunity that the Health Protection Act and the Social Insurance Act, which are the roof laws for this field of work, were passed several years ago, when the health minister was Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, and they set up the system in a newer way. The goal was to improve this system and to modernise it in line with modern modern European flows and those systems that we want to regulate our health system as well. In this time, newer and higher quality steps are being made within this system. When we talk about this bill today, someone has said – a small law, the law proposes nine members, and from the point of view of its scope, that is, the number of members that are changing, it does not represent some significant place, but from the point of view of content and what it brings is great, it is significant and in that sense I personally support it, and I am sure, as was said here, and our entire assembly of SPS, as I really believe, all the other parliamentary groups. Here, what I particularly want to stress is that, in the proposal of this law and some of its solutions, there is one innovation, which has been a little more difficult so far, and this is multi-resorship cooperation in order to address certain issues, in this case the health, education sector, medical chambers, the Serbian Doctor's Society and all other professional associations and forms of organization, which show that the complete profession, in this case health care, forms of its organisation, as well as the education profession must be included in order to heal the complete health care system, in order to ensure the need of the number of doctors, in order to ensure all the professions necessary in the healthcare system and to ensure its appropriate quality. What I think is also important in this bill is equalising the work of doctors, dentists and pharmacists, that is, their practices, both previous and overall, so that they can secure their work, because this creates equal conditions for them to be on the market and to provide health services, as well as very good regulation of the relationship between health institutions and health professions. What has rightfully caused great attention here, even mine, is actually these famous points. Boiling during work, i.e. systematic health education, restoring knowledge is something that is really necessary in all professions, in medicine particularly sensitive, because as we see, in recent years this knowledge sector is very dynamic, changing and we cannot say in any profession, in this particular, that we have one relationship – I learned once and for all what I need to know and that is enough for me. So, we have to keep perfecting ourselves, and here I think the big role of how we're going to provide points, how we're going to count these educations, what forums of work and what content we're going to get points through. In my opinion, next to the Ministry, there has to be a big role in the medical chamber. Why do I say that? So in this bill of law, we heard that a large number of doctors did not provide enough points. On the other hand, it is certain that the Ministry and the Medical Chamber have an insight into the spatial distribution of these doctors who have not obtained the appropriate number of points so that they can continue working in normal conditions, but from that we can see in which parts of Serbia may not be adequate and health care. Because if the doctor doesn't get better all the time, he stagnates and provides his services. When a man enters the office, there's this amazing magic of great trust between a patient and a doctor. Because by coming to the office where I meet a man in a white coat, I provide him with information about myself and my own health, in the deepest belief, and I expect that he will also, with the highest level of knowledge and expertise, provide me with help. When we realize that it works, then it won't get points and continuous education to be seen as a formal need to score points, but at the same time, either the Medical Chamber or someone else, to recognize that when the doctor finishes four years of specialization, it has to be recognized with a large number of points. From what I've heard from some young doctors, after four years of specialization, they get either a very small number of points or they don't get them at all. After a seminar that has either special specialist courses, a type of ultra sound, which lasts maybe a few months, the question is how many points they get, and in doing so for some other forms of congress or some other professional education, as far as I've heard, these points are getting more intense, different, etc. Simply, that degree of specialization, which lasts four years, getting a specialist doctor, is something I find very important, which should be supported, which should also be provided through points and that it should continue, as well as these others. In that sense, I think the complete relationship of points should absolutely lead to a much more active, more flexible role, with the recognition of the need for continuous acquisition of new and quality knowledge. What I'm trying to say here is that we've defined ourselves to regulate our relationship with all parts of this law, but at this point I want to take advantage of the Ministry's initiative, the initiative of the minister himself, who in the media a few days ago placed the request, the need, the obligation of all health institutions to arrange for the need for a decent life of a man, not to say in the most literal sense of cleaning and painting, which is the elemental matter of hygiene. That act itself also raises hope for the healing of the entire health care system. It is banana on one side, but it is very significant. So, I would support it anyway, and I wouldn't consider it a little bit, or that it's something that's less important. So, I would support absolutely one such policy of the Ministry, its spot-on response to every situation it recognizes, even if it is the smallest or greatest, to ensure that this system works, that we trust our health system, that it is available to everyone, to the benefit of the citizens, to the benefit of our patients, and to the pride of doctors who are truly dedicated and quality people who are devoted in the best sense to the word of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39554	Thank you, Mrs. Dragash. The word has a folk letter from Violeta Lutovac. Here you go, Dr. Lutovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39555	Mr Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of Parliament, today's Proposal for a Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Health Protection Act, I would say that it is a big step towards contributing to the arrangement of a single health care system and to the contribution of the regulation of the quality of healthcare to persons in need of healthcare. What is being regulated for the first time by this bill is the definition of a clear definition of the status of teachers, i.e. associates at the Faculty of Health Professionals. The teacher, i.e. an associate at the Faculty of Health Professionals who conducts a lecture or a practical course from a clinical course at the level of a medical institution is actually a health worker. It's clearly defined here. This same healthcare professional also provides health care services to persons in need of medical services, i.e. insured persons. What is achieved as a revenue from providing these health services is actually the income of a higher education institution, which is represented by a teacher, or associate. This is very important in terms of improving the health care system itself. This health worker, a teacher or associate at the university, is also a member of the Human Resources Plan. I've noticed that so far no one's pointed out, but by Article 173, I'd say it's entering the health care workers' personnel plan. What this law gives us is again, I would say for the first time, one agreement, a very important agreement between the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the Faculty of Health Institutions and health institutions from the plan of a network of health institutions, where it clearly determines what mutual rights are and what the obligations of all these signatories of the agreement are, in fact, what is the task that all the signatories of this agreement have to carry out. It is to provide health care and addition to a list of all these healthcare professionals mentioned earlier who actually provide this health care service. What this law still makes, or I would say corrects a mistake, is a change in the length of the length of the traineeship when we talk about persons who have graduated from medical school, i.e. doctors of general practice. The length of their traineeship so far was six months after college. Unlike them, dentists and pharmacies performed a 12-month internship, which I think, although I'm a doctor of general practice, is not right. This law corrects it. In fact, healthcare professionals with high professional training will perform a six-month traineeship, as well as health workers with a college, as I said earlier, as well as persons, or healthcare professionals with a higher and upper school. The duration of the traineeship will also be six months. What this bill, i.e. amending and supplementing contributions, is also a clear regulation of the principles of renewal of the licence. The principles of how a license is obtained are arranged. What I would say for me is that the most important thing as a young doctor, and perhaps the youngest doctor among these MPs, is that, after a university degree, a traineeship and a professional exam, a doctor has the option, regardless of being employed in a medical institution, to get a license and get a license number. My colleagues have already said what is needed to renew the license. Continuing medical education or collecting points, points, whatever we call it, I would say in one word that it is the obligation of every healthcare professional. In what way? When we decided to study at the medical school or to study health sciences, we immediately defined that this study would take as long as we did the profession, and even after that. Because once a student is forever a student, and that's what actually applies to a health worker. I would also point out that it is most important and, I would say, the first principle of the Hippocratic oath that the doctor is obliged not to harm the patient. By doing so, going to continuous education would do so. Thanks to one community, i.e. the co-operation of the Ministry of Health, the chambers of health workers, as well as the medical community, we have been given the opportunity to improve health care. What I wanted to add was to pass a licence exam - if a person, or a health care professional, in this case, fails to meet the conditions to renew his licence, will have the need to apply for his licence examination within 60 days of the date of expiry of the valid licence. This solves a big problem, which is either a supervisory problem or a mentorial work that, I don't want to repeat, my colleagues have made it clear that there's no point at all that, let's say, one surgeon who's lost his license to work under another surgeon's mentorship, and he's not able to contribute, let's say, to perform some surgical intervention. Also, a specialist doctor who does not have a license is unable to carry out specialist examinations. How would a doctor who doesn't have a license do a medical examination at a hospital in one of the settlements? Because of all the things I've said, all I see is a contribution to the adoption of this bill, and in the day of voting, I'll be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39556	Thank you, Dr. Lutovac. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milan Latkovic. Here you go, Mr. Latkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39557	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would point out that the amendments and additions of the Health Protection Act, according to the SPS MPs, are good and high quality, and we will therefore support them, as said the authorised representative of the SPS, Honorable Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. The proposed amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act fill in the legal gap that exists in the current Health Protection Act. The need for the department of health to be responsible, in addition to the control of the conditions for the work and control of the pharmacy itself, has been observed, by a general act governing what can be the subject of drug trafficking. The addition of the law adds a new Article 171a, which extends and precises the term "health worker". So we now consider health care workers a teacher and associate of the faculty of health care professions, as well as health workers, those teachers and associates who do not teach from clinical studies, but who provide health services in health institutions. Accordingly, the health institution concludes an agreement with the Faculty of Health Services and the Republic Health Insurance Fund and that agreement governing mutual rights and obligations are related to the complaint of compulsory health care services. The draft law prescribes amendments in Article 175, which relate to the length of the length of the traineeship for healthcare professionals with high expertise. The proposed law prescribes that apart from the doctor of medicine, the traineeship lasts six months and for dentists, graduate pharmacists and graduate pharmacists of medical biochemists. These changes are made possible by harmonising the basic study programme with European directives, which require students to carry out part of the compulsory traineeship programme in the final year of basic studies. This solution is logical, and I would say justly because it equits the duration of the traineeship for all healthcare professionals with high professional training. I would also point out that changes in this law have arisen as an initiative of a proposal from the dental and pharmaceutical college. Articles 5, 6 and 7 shall be amended to regulate the issue, renewal and withdrawal of licences by existing members 190, 191 and 196. I would remind respected fellow Members of the Members of the People who do not have a narrow interest in the issue of a licence, i.e. a license for independent work, renewal and confiscation by the competent chamber, and a decision given, renewed or withdrawn by the Director of the Chamber of Jurisdiction. Also, I'd like to say that the renewal of licenses is done every seven years. Closer conditions, procedures and methods of issuing, i.e. renewal and withdrawal of licences, a programme of continuous education in order to acquire the professional skills of healthcare professionals for independent work, passing a licence exam, how to pass a licence exam, education of the commission and deeper conditions for issuing, renewing and withdrawing a licence is prescribed by the minister. It is very important to point out that, compared to earlier law, the following changes were planned - a health care professional obtains the licence practically immediately after a professional examination, and earlier this was only after receiving the work relationship; the number of points that were 24 on an annual level is now 20, which means that to obtain the right to a licence the total number of points needed is 140. I would also point out that the number of points cannot be less than ten in one calendar year, and it is also very important that colleagues can carry points from year to year. In practice so far, a worker who had not received or renewed a licence could not perform his own health work in a health institution or in private practice, but could do so with the presence of a mentor, or a man who had a licence. This type of work in a health institution has shown a number of weaknesses that have made the process of work difficult, and has been rarely followed by improvisation in work, which is unacceptable. This proposal for a law, a healthcare professional who has not received or renewed a licence, shall not be allowed to perform health work in a health institution or private practice. The obligation of a healthcare professional who has not collected a sufficient number of points is to submit a request to the competent chamber for a licence exam 60 days before the licence expires. If a healthcare professional submits a licence, the conditions for renewal shall be met. The healthcare professional also receives the licence if he has passed the licence after a previously withdrawn licence. Finally, I would like to say, which is also very important, in my opinion, that the proposed law solution will not generate additional costs to the Republic budget or to patients or to health institutions and other legal entities. For all these reasons, the SPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support the adoption of this bill on health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39558	Thank you, Mr. Latkovic. The word is made by MP Milan Knezevic. Here you go, Dr. Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39559	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, so many MPs have been discussing these amendments to the health care law so far, I'm likely to repeat myself in some segments. Many of us have also said that, although several members have been changed, these are again members who are related to the resolution of the relevant problems, who have not been properly resolved, i.e. there was no legal framework, or have been seen in the realisation of a legal act, I mean a legal act on doctoral chambers, the corresponding problems that will arise and that the Ministry is responding in the right way. You see, these members are not so harmless, it's about sensitive members, especially one, which refers to 171a. The new member introduced, and the minister's own finding that something had been unsettled for six decades, speaks of it as a sensitive problem, does not justify that there is no legal framework to resolve the problem. I would like to comment that our teachers, teachers, the top experts, scientific, educational, one health pyramid. When I say so, I respect all other specialists, sub-specialists and healthcare professionals who make up the entire pyramid of health care. But the fact that we in health care clearly know which is the reference institution for which area, we also know about any area of reference personality, who is an expert, or a group of experts dealing with a particular problem, and that group of experts are normally university professors. So they're their own and their place of professor at medical school is a triple-loaded place. On the one hand, they are teachers who carry out education both students of elementary studies and later in specialization, in doctoral studies, in education courses. It is also required to introduce new methods of work and to be the most professional, most capable, and only calling imposes the criteria to deal with science through valorisation of writing and publishing of works. So, to reach that place, a great deal of effort and a great deal of renouncing was made. Although a colleague, a young woman, said the very profession of a doctor from the moment you decided to enroll in medicine, is consciousness, not only will you do human work, but the awareness that you will study school for at least the next 15 years, and for the rest of your life you are constantly perfecting yourself. So it's the consciousness of our profession. Now, I think this member is going to give a legal framework and interpret it so that he finds affirmative rights of solutions under legal regulations that, I must say, and probably my colleagues who have discussed, who are professors at the university, that there is a fear of teachers and teachers not to be properly damaged. I don't think that's gonna happen. This, as the minister also said, is a legal framework that will later pass through the relevant agreements, in the right way to resolve and surely it is useful to consult for the profession of professors of medical school, solutions that exist in the environment and, as we seek the EU, to quote -- to find such a solution that their efforts and work are properly valorised. I repeat, I want to repeat once again, it is known in the profession which is a reference institution, which deals with relevant areas, and it should also be appreciated in this way, in fact and motivated and young people to go through these steps and improve the profession and practice, and it is encouraging examples that affect young people to put forth great effort and thus also to improve the profession and diagnosis and treatment of patients, for which we exist as a profession. So that part for me and this member, I have no fear in me as a university professor, I believe that the ministry will find the right way, affirmative but I agree with something that hasn't been solved in 60 years at one point must be solved in the right way and thus a segment in the legal regulation and function of health resolves. Then there is the next segment that refers to continuous medical education. We've really repeatedly commented here that we've been banalizing this point-gathering. I quote colleagues, most of whom have said, that continued medical education is something that we have accepted as a system that exists in the world for years. Now, the fact that we've probably faced each other since this is the first cycle, the first seven years in organizational function. Personally, I don't think these accredited courses are too banalized. Still, there's an entry test, there's an exit test. If it is the organizer who has devalued his course through cocktails or something else, it must be an institution or a professional or esnafian association, under which frameworks it happens to remove it. I'm sure there are problems. We do, I heard on the board and good and bad examples. We were quoted by the secretary of state as saying that there was a situation that health care directors wouldn't let their associates go to education and collect points. Then we heard good examples of homes healthy in the province that he saw, noticed the director that some doctors would not have a proper number of educational courses and organized courses in that institution to replace it. We illustrate this, quote the stories of colleagues who discussed it, and so I think, this is the first cycle of relicence, and he found some at the beginning of his career, some in the middle, some at the end of his career, like me and a lot of colleagues after 50 years. Then we need to adapt to these new criteria. In the next second and third courses, when these youngsters arrive in the next 14 years, who are at the beginning, and know what awaits them, I think the problems will be resolved and that we, which is normal, are going to evolve in the organization of these courses. There will be one problem, in my opinion, that is, it exists and that is why the ministry in this member has introduced that a license exam has been passed because it has been seen that the corresponding number of colleagues, but as far as I know it is not a small number, will not have the right number of points and thus resolve the problem. Now, I'm asking one question, and I think the ministry is going to face it, this group, and I've used on the board an expression, unadjusted colleagues, I'm not going to go into what are the reasons, whether they officially consider a specialist diploma to be what it checks out, and that this is unofficial, or that they have other unadjusted views, when I say and you'll have a chance to face it, when he consciously starts to collect seven years of points, I'm afraid that I'm determining a percentage from that group, he'll consciously say, I'm not going to take a license exam. Then the ministry will face one group that won't even pass a relicence exam. So I'm saying this from very real, because I know the right people to be prepared, I don't know which way to solve it, because according to legal regulations, if they don't pass the license, he's going to lose his working relationship. On the other hand, we're going to face this problem as a ministry that's seriously dealing with this problem, and I wanted to finally, after I'm done, say, here in the new term we're sitting here, how many years and a half, as far as health care is concerned, it's not what Mr. Loncar from our party is, it's his effort. It's the effort of his associates. I'd point out that if it wasn't just a sentence spoken that maybe the citizens hadn't heard, that there really wasn't a single foul caught in the paper, and they'd have caught him individually, I'm not going to say which newspaper. We'd be making tenders right now, like, who's in or out, but so far, these journalists who call themselves investigative journalism, which means, I do know what it means in the profession and science, but there are these researches, too, so that by now any affair so that if it were less, we've had affairs before not only about buying the apparatus. You remember the vaccine affair, that we don't remember all the affairs that were in the papers, which were true, and that's why I support it first, and I just want to say this at this age that the challenges of working and fighting different pharmaceutical companies and all the challenges of other types, but that we should stick to what we said when we're in the health programme and generally in the citizens' programme, that in health, of course I'm building on health care, I want to be in all the areas of our society and in the building and finance, but this is something that is factual and what thanks is still worth, and that this effort in that part is repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39560	I thank Dr. Princeevich. The word has a folk emissary of the Jellysavet the Beacon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39561	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, the Health Protection Act was adopted in 2005 and with some minor changes that were 2009, 2010, 2011, 2013 and 2014, it is still in place. As one of the system laws that is important for the work of all health institutions, in some parts of it requires the adoption of a completely new legal solution, and that is why today we have these amendments and additions to the law, more specifically to amend and supplement several members of the law, and I will look at them only in my presentation. The first amendment refers to a member of 101 who regulates the functioning of the pharmacy, more specifically to the position of the 5th member who speaks about what can be the subject of drug trafficking and that instead of the competent chamber, the act will be brought by a resolution minister, which is, of course, logically since the Ministry of Health prescribes and controls conditions for the work of not only all health institutions, but also pharmacies. The second amendment is in fact a brand new member of 171s who determines the status of persons who are teachers and co-workers of the medical profession, who teach from clinical studies in a medical institution, as well as teachers and associates who do not teach from clinical studies, but who provide health services in health institutions. These persons will have the status of healthcare professionals and will be able to provide health care services from compulsory health insurance at health institutions in the plan of a network of health institutions. What is pointed out is that the financing of these services will be carried out by the Republic Health Insurance Fund, and on the basis of a concluded agreement between the Republic Health Insurance Fund, the health institutions of the network plan, health institutions and the colleges of health professions, in which all their rights and obligations will be regulated. The funds that make colleges on this basis will be their own resources, their own revenues from which they will be able to pay compensation for the services provided in accordance with the pricer of the Republic Fund and the time spent at work. This, I hope, is the beginning of a more correct and fairer, and above all the legal direction of money flows for these types of services than it was today. I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Minister, as a lawyer working at a health care facility for a little longer than 30 years, first of all, on the courage to even go into solving a problem like this, because I know how much resistance there was in some previous years to put it in the legal frameworks. You yourself pointed out earlier in your presentation that people who are not employed are entering health institutions, who are doing certain jobs, and who receive a certain fee for these jobs. In direct connection with these amendments, it is also a member of 173a, which refers to human resources plans in health institutions, so that the human plans will now include both these persons and these healthcare professionals from Article 171, i.e. teachers and co-workers of the medical profession college, for which salaries from the organisation of compulsory health insurance will be provided. Article 175 regulates the length of the length of the traineeship, healthcare professionals and health associates. The paper is that now all healthcare professionals with high professional training will perform a six-month traineeship. So far, we know that a 12-month traineeship was performed by dentists, biochemists, and pharmacists. So now it's simply equalized the duration of the traineeship with performing doctor's doctor's appointment. Professional associates with high professional training will continue to conduct a 12-month traineeship, while the middle and higher professional prepares medical professions also six months of traineeship. What may be most important for healthcare professionals and I see today from these discussions are members of 190 and 191 who regulate the conditions for issuing, renewing or withdrawing a licence, but I also know that healthcare professionals know that the Health Protection Act regulates their professional training, i.e. the acquisition of certain knowledge and skills, not only through specializations and rope specialisation, but also through continuous medical education that involves participation in professional and scientific meetings, seminars, conventions, courses and other programmes of continuous education. It is also their right, but also the duty of healthcare professionals to monitor the development of medical sciences during their working days, to professionally improve and thus maintain and improve the quality of their work on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is their condition for obtaining, or renewing a licence. The additions in Article 190 refer to item 8, where, in addition to other conditions for issuing, renewing and withdrawing a licence, the Minister will also add that the special act will prescribe the possibility of passing a licence exam, the way in which it will be subject to the formation of the commission and other conditions. It is now possible for a healthcare professional who has not obtained a condition for the renewal of the licence to pass the licence by applying to the competent chamber within 60 days of the expiry of the period on which the licence has been issued. I can point out that health care professionals at health institutions in the Kingdom, both in the home of health and in the general hospital, have no problems with the renewal of licences at all, because they are organized so that certain teams of people work in collaboration with the branch of the Serbian Medical Society and with the Union of Doctors and Pharmaceuticals in order to have both internal and external educations and believe that the largest number of doctors in health institutions in the Kingdom has more points than those prescribed, so that they will be able to pass them on in the following year. What is important is to point out that a health care professional who has not obtained a condition for renewal, or has been deprived of his license because of a criminal offence against human health, will no longer be able to perform medical work, as has been the case so far, that they have been able to do so with the supervision of their colleague, another healthcare professional who has a licence, if appointed by the director of a medical institution. I sincerely hope that this is only the beginning of a lack in the law and that there will be very soon before us MPs a new law not only on health care, but also the Health Insurance Act, that it will be done accordingly and arranged by following rules which, believe me, in many of its works are not practical, which will certainly affect improving the work of not only health workers, but providing services to the benefit of patients. Since these are very important changes to an important system law, in voting day, I, as well as all my colleagues from the SNS, will support and vote for these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39562	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Radoslav Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39563	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Ministers and Guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, we consider the bill we are considering today to be the introduction of a series of laws in the field of health care, health insurance, which I believe will be very soon in front of us, which I also believe will be reformal and essential. I am aware, Mr. Minister, that you and your associates have inherited a heavy burden from the previous period. Big problems have been inherited. When we talk about it, I mean big financial delinquencies in the health system, I mean the depravity of facilities and equipment in the health system, and I believe that it was something that you had to solve acutely in the last year and a half. That is probably why neither you nor this congregation majority were able to deal with fundamental and systemic changes in the legislative sphere. For a situation like this, I would make two essential facts. First, the health system in Serbia went back two and a half decades, it can be said freely, through cataclysm. It's the same system that had to withstand the burden of sanctions in the 1990s, the burden of aggression on this country and, of course, that all of this reflected in the entire health system. However, I cannot help but point out the irresponsibility and reporting by some ministers who have managed the entire system during the previous period and, of course, destroyed it and led to what we are facing today. That is why today, both in front of you and in front of this assembly majority, it is such a difficult task that we raise the collapsed system to our feet and arrange it in a way that is efficient and beneficial to the citizens of Serbia, to get something right into the system that we have so far called the private health sector, if it is indeed available to large and human and material resources, and we must admit that it has not been used in the right way. So far, you've put a lot of effort into repairing the physical state of health. You have solved a number of financial deliosis within the system, a lot has been done to restore clinics, hospitals, health homes, supply of modern equipment, and my colleagues have already highlighted a number of very important things that have happened to us a year and a half ago. What's good is that today we're committed to solving a set of problems related to a factor that we generally call human resources. That proves this bill before us. Unfortunately, some previous ministers from the past decades apparently did not have hearing for people employed in health care. They were treated like masters, often humiliated, and poor staff policies didn't care about their education, value their work. That's why today we're facing a serious shortage of medical staff. Our doctors are leaving, our sisters are leaving, our technicians, etc. Our average doctor's age is over 50 years old. And in that part, you might say, you've already taken a number of steps to respect. You've opened a space for young people to get into specialization. You are changing the unfavourable relationship between health and non-healthy workers within the institutions. With this in mind, and the amendments to this law in Articles 171, 173 and 175 aim to create order and justice in the evaluation of the work of top experts, especially those involved in both scientific and practical work, and that is proof that you also have a desire to make good intentions, and we MPs of political will, to support you in that. What I would draw attention to and what I consider essential to the position of healthcare professionals are amendments to the laws relating to Articles 175, 190, 191, 196 and 198. In doing so, I would like to remind you, this law was passed at a time when the health administration was headed by a minister whose name I will not mention, who showed insufficient respect for healthcare professionals. He showed it in a number of ways. One way is that he did not seek the cure, although he was a minister, did not ask his colleagues in Serbia, but sought the medicine out of Serbia. Another way he showed disrespect for one important profession and activity is when he proposed to this congregation, to this home to pass a series of laws that unfortunately did not respect enough opinions or professions, or professions, or all those interested in this legal right way and form. I mean, the Law on Medical Chambers, I mean the current law that we're trying to fix, the Health Protection Act, and a whole set of other laws that I believe will come on the agenda. One civilization need, the need for people to educate themselves all their lives, to perfect themselves, and especially our profession that must follow trends in science, I think the said minister, whose name I haven't spoken, turned and banalized into a system of coercion. The system we're calling today must be recognised by many of my colleagues here, chasing points. This must not be a chase for points, and we are today in discussions looking at all the flaws of such a system of education and such a system that is set as a condition for people to do their job. Of course we have to build some sort of system where someone's work will be valued, and besides, what we call continuous education. Also, I believe that such a serious system must be in line with many other things, such as the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Education and Education, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, and some constitutional provisions. Since it was passed as it was passed, hasty and unwittingly, we are now in a position to correct some of the shortcomings of that law. I'd just like to remind you that healthcare professionals are mostly in the vastly larger security people. If they weren't safe, they wouldn't accept entering a system where official schooling takes so long. They're the same people who have endured those terrible economic sanctions in the past decade, they've endured war, sometimes their pay's worth nothing, they've practically worked, they haven't used paid or paid leave. These people today have faced a dilemma as to whether enough of our society values everything they've done in the past. I absolutely support the proposals made by colleagues Posukrica and Knezevic, when they said that this system of education, that system of some points must be dignified, should not offend people employed in health care and I believe that the new law on chambers, notified by the Secretary of State on several occasions on the Committee, already on the Health Ministry site, will solve all of these dilemmas that we are facing today. There were really great suggestions on how to solve this licensing problem. One of the proposals was just made by professor. The prince who said he had seen it somewhere, whether in America or where, that colleagues who had not collected enough of these necessary licensing points were given a test of 200, 300, 500 questions and a certain time to answer that test, which, of course, obliged them to read certain literature, etc., that is to say, to be educated in those areas from which they failed to accept new knowledge. I would just like, in the future, when this assembly majority and you, Mr. Minister, with your associates, to create laws that concern, not only the rights of the insurance company, but the rights of 120,000 people in health care, really listen to these people, to make one quality public debate, to bring one quality new law on chambers that will leave all of these dilemmas that we, after seven years of applying this law, face, to solve in the right way and to solve for generations of doctors, nurses, technicians and other health workers, leave one orderly system in which they will feel safe and safe and that they do not want to leave this country and to seek a piece of bread out there outside of Serbia. That is why I also see these amendments as a transitional solution to the adoption of the right reform laws. At the political will to support you on that path, you should not doubt this congregation. We will, of course, make an effort to help you and some of our experiences and some of our knowledge, etc. Thank you, and I wish you both the will and the strength and the happiness to endure and do what the citizens of Serbia expect. I wrote a few amendments to this bill, thinking that I could help solve some dilemmas. However, in the belief that we will soon get new legal solutions that will solve this in the right way, I will withdraw these amendments and participate in everything that is ahead of us in the reform of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39564	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Zoric.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39565	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, draft law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act that we are discussing today is such a guy that I think we could all freely support him without any restraint. The proposed amendments and additions to the draft law are very important, perhaps not directly for the citizens, but more indirectly, but are certainly important for the health profession and in general for the function of the health system in our country. Article 1 has changed where, when it comes to pharmacies and acts, it determines what is the subject of drug trafficking. In the previous law, i.e. the current applicable law, the chamber for the adoption of such acts is competent. By amending the law, the minister, who is part of the government implementing health policy, is now practically in charge, i.e. becoming responsible for the adoption of acts. This is very important, because if the government is tasked with leading politics, health policy in the state, then jurisdiction must belong to the minister, not, as it was before, to the competent chamber. Article 2 The draft law amending Article 171, which adds Article 171a, is very important and as the minister said, after 60 years, the problem is trying to resolve itself by law. This article, i.e. by adding to Article 171, regulates the practical status of teaching staff in the schools of health professions. We have to bear in mind that university professors are the most practical people in our country. These are highly educated staff, especially professors of medical school, pharmaceuticals, dentistry, health work, practical work, students' education, as well as scientific work. It's work without working hours, no Saturdays and weeks and work that practically, even after retirement, requires monitoring. That is why these people have so far had a certain status that has not been adequately regulated, and this bill, that is, by amending Article 171, wants to fix it, which is very important. Is it going to be done the right way, I don't know, but it's important that it started working? Of course, that shouldn't mean I'm not a university professor, so I don't have the need, I don't defend myself personally, but I think these people should be really financially rewarded. We have heard a comment that they have received so far, that they receive two salaries, and even those two salaries are probably not enough for the work they are investing in what they do. That's gotta be the way it is. You know, it's embarrassing in a country that's poor, when it's said someone has 100,000 salaries, that sounds a lot to the general masses. However, the effort made to reach the calling of university professors and the efforts made during the work with that title is enormous and of course he must be adequately rewarded and of course the university professor must have a higher salary than the salary of a public enterprise director, a city, and as things stand now, I guess the salaries are far less. Article 173a practically implements this Article 171a, i.e. Article 2 of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws and aligns with the treatment of healthcare professionals involved in practical education, i.e. educational work, educational work. Article 4 of the Law provides for the equalisation of the working time among all healthcare professionals with a high level of expertise for six months, and that's good. Thus, the length of the work experience is defined, although it should be noted that even when there was a year for a doctor, or a completed doctor, general practice with a professional exam and completed training, the schooling is not yet completed. The doctor completes her internship and takes a string exam, only then is she practically starting to study, because colleges are mostly trained to work mainly on education in clinical conditions and as much as she has practice she is not enough to have one doctor with a completed internship and a professional exam to make his full contribution when found in a rural infirmary. There's another difference I've noticed, there's a huge difference between those doctors who first know how to get into town conditions, in city health homes, and those doctors who get their knowledge, and practically find themselves in their profession in rural conditions. This is for the simple reason, so that in the city's conditions of emergency, there are health care facilities that provide the most difficult cases, emergency cases, so that doctors who start their careers in city conditions, in the city's health homes don't want it or not, don't have the opportunity to see everything that a doctor who starts a career in the country can see in the country. Because rural doctors do mostly all those jobs that are from the domain of doctors from birth to death, and even after death because they're forced to come to their senses. It's an invaluable experience, and I think maybe there's something to be done here because the basics of the knowledge and quality of work are practically the doctors who put it at the beginning of their careers. When it comes to continued medical education, it is already quite said, and I would have to express myself, i.e. I need to express my opinion when it comes to continued medical education. The current way of organising a continuous medical education is largely related to, or has really turned into a collection of points, and this is why? The fact is that many institutions organise free continuous education for their employees, however, these are usually topics that are not interesting for everyone, do not help to acquire new knowledge of all the profiles that work in these institutions. I was personally able to collect points by listening to some lectures that I wasn't interested in personally, but that's why I couldn't listen to lectures that interest me. Because it meant going to Nis, going to Belgrade or Novi Sad, which requires both time and material investment, which costs, say, going to Nis cost about 15,000 dinars that I should single out from my own resources, and there's also a difference between doctors working in large cities, in large centres and those working in small centres. I live in Kovin just 50km from Belgrade, so it's not easy for me to go to that education I want to listen to, because it takes time, it's one thing. Second, or most importantly, it requires a day off that I can't get, because if I leave the office, I'm the only one, my job stands. So, the patients were denied the services I was supposed to provide that day, there's no one to replace me. That's one reason why I can't get a day off, or I can get a day off of vacation because the service suffers. The problem is that the next day when I come back, and if I just happen to leave the next day when I come back, I can't achieve it because everything that's left of the last day is coming back to me, and then there's a real mess, and the other important problem I've already said is these material separations that I have to get out of my own pocket, so I have to give my own money, which is not a little bit simple. So even in order to collect points, I have to listen to topics that I don't personally care about and don't contribute to my own increasing knowledge and improving the quality of work. In addition, Article 91 of the applicable law provides for licences for doctors who fail to renew their licence until they are licensed to work under the supervision of a healthcare professional who has a licence. It is good that this bill, Article 6, has changed that possibility, and that possibility no longer exists, because the work of a doctor without a licence, under the supervision of a physician with a licence, is completely pointless. Again, it's a much bigger problem in the smaller environment, because if you have a shift, say, one general practice doctor and a general medical specialist, and it happens for some reason that a general medical specialist has no license, he's failed to collect enough points, and he's, say, 50 years old, and he's got a general practitioner who's 30 years old and who can mentor him? So, basically, he can only be mentored by that general practitioner, which is out of his mind, because surely a doctor when he's 50 and 20 and a couple of years of work experience, although he doesn't have a license, he certainly has much more knowledge and more experience than a beginner's doctor and only a doctor of general medicine. Simply, it's simply impossible to organise and then ask the question, too -- who's going to verify what that doctor is doing, because if he doesn't already have a license, he doesn't even have the right to stamp, he doesn't have the right to stamp, which is approved by the fund, which we get and we contract with the Health Insurance Fund of the Republic of Serbia. So there's a whole series of problems about it, and that's why it's good that it's changed in the current bill that I'm sure we'll adopt. It is good that the possibility of passing a license exam is introduced, because it allows doctors who have failed to collect points to enable themselves not to lose their license, and therefore, practically, without a job. A doctor without a license has nothing to look for in a health care system, whether he's a private or works at a state-run facility. Eventually, he might be some kind of private health manager, private practice, but it just doesn't make sense. It's very good, it gives people a chance, and as Professor Poscurica said, I'm guessing these tests will contain questions that are life-threatening, which are practical, that it won't be a head-cutting. So whoever knows his job will also be able to pass those tests and there won't be any problems, and whoever can't pass the tests, well, my God, then it's not worth doing. It's just not good for patients for a man like that to work in medical care if he doesn't have the basic knowledge of medicine. So this member is totally fine, too. It is good that Article 8 erases this possibility that a healthcare professional who has been permanently deprived of a licence can perform certain health activities because I have said something on the subject. A health care professional who's been suspended permanently has really got nothing to look for in health care because we know why licenses are being taken away. There are criteria on the basis of which it is done, and such people really have nothing to look for in health care. Given that all these proposals for amending and supplementing the law are extremely good, the government has shown that it is considering fixing everything in the area of health care that is wrong, where the law needs to be regulated, I will vote in the Voting Day, as well as all members of the SNS, MPs of the SNS, for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39566	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Radojevic has the word, then Jezimir Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39567	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I see these proposed changes as the first step in removing the minerals of the past that have left a deep mark on our country's health system. Given that they are also baptized as an emergency, I am indeed experiencing it and I hope that within the foreseeable period we will go very quickly to changes in the entire legislation regarding the health area, of course, what has not worked and what has not been good, which has been seen to have been bad in the previous period. The first thing about pharmacies and drug trafficking, of course, I support it, by suggesting maybe something that's going on next to, undetected, that public services and the media have been doing a lot of advertising lately, that I don't say drug sales and medical aids, it seems to me to be taking too much of a swing, because as you turn on some TV program you have some experience on the subject. So it seems to me that it kind of passes on our little door, but "bye-bye" is not the subject of this debate, but it's simply about the trafficking of medicinal substances and preparations that are even real official drugs. As far as university professors who are involved in the education of personnel who create our young generations, Doctor, I really don't have a dilemma that these are people who don't need to be subject to conditions and that what they do must belong to the noblest profession. So, from one student to make a doctor specialist, to give him your knowledge, whether you're an assistant, a doctor or a professor, it's really unnecessary to measure, except by quality. It might be good one day to think about ranking universities, colleges, and participants themselves, but it's also something that can be a topic of thinking about the future. As for continued medical education, of course there is no good doctor without the day - to - day training of doctors. Is continued medical education what we occasionally gather at some seminars and symposiums or is a discontinuous medical education and can be talked about, but a doctor who does not follow science and a doctor who is not daily in the science office, with colleagues, with patients, surely loses a step in science, given that in medicine things change faster than any science, that medicine is making the fastest progress, and that it directly affects the health of the population. I think it's very important. There are also some Esnaf associations in the Republic of Serbia on the subject. I primarily think of the Serbian Doctor's Society and the Medical Chamber, which are very zealously harvesting 21,000 doctors, how much it works in Serbia, about 60 euros in the Chamber and 20-ak Serbian Doctor's Society. So, about two million euros are harvesting revenue annually. I'm not sure they contribute too much to what's called continuous education, monitoring what's called a trend and a problem in our health care. I'll illustrate this to you in the case of education, because I think it's a basic education and a key education and a key medical license, a college graduation. The next education is specialization, so obtaining a specialist's license, or a specialist's degree, and of course as the crown of that subspecialist, something that can be called a doctor's license. I am not sure that during the previous period they have been paying attention to this and that this education is acceptable during this previous period. I'll illustrate this to you in the case of my hospital, a general hospital in Chačka, which has employees of about 180 doctors and who in the next three or four years are losing their number of jobs between 30 and 40 colleagues on retirement. Therefore, continuous education and monitoring were not in the previous period. In the next three or four years, Cačak Hospital will lose a fifth of its specialists, and there are barely two or three doctors on specialization who will be in their place. I'm afraid the situation is similar in a large number of Serbian cities. I therefore appeal to the Ministry, since we have adopted those changes regarding specializations, that it participates more actively in this and in these hospitals that are in the periphery, that it encourages them to enter human resources that will allow time-consuming staff to be filled, that we do not come into a position that some smaller hospitals in smaller cities, Cačak is a city of 130,000 residents, not without doctors, because every health care that is distributed from the parent office, the parent institution, is a more expensive bar for transport costs, if nothing else. As for those famous licences obtained from this continuing medical education at symposiums and seminars, I would like to, since we have taken the first step to correct the conditions for the functioning of this institution, that it can go to essential knowledge in some future period, rather than essentially chasing points. Because having points based on points to get a license doesn't mean having knowledge. Under nice hair, there doesn't have to be a smart head. Also, under a lot of points, you don't have to be a doctor who knows more than the one who wasn't formally at some symposium or seminar, and I've been educated. So, about three or five hours of education on three or five occasions provides you with these 24, or now 20 points, but I'm not sure that it can also be a guarantee that this colleague is absolutely in progress, that he's educated more than he who is working, hardworking and hardworking in his workplace. What I can still say on the subject is that so far, the Medical Chamber has been collecting about 1 million and 200,000 euros a year, and taking care of licenses and licensing, practically and licensing certificates sold as a product. As the bankers have now realized that credit is a product, so has the Medical Chamber produced these papers to say that someone qualified to do his job because he has collected 24 and 20 points now, respectively. The key thing on the subject, I would like the Ministry and all of us to be tolerant of colleagues who have failed to obtain it, who will be in trouble and that, if necessary, this 60-day period should not be taken as a "D day" but that they should get the time, if necessary, of course, and after the 60-day period to pass their exam, to extend their debt to continuous education and to keep their jobs and their profession and their license, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39568	Thank you. The People's Messenger Jezdimir Vučetic has the word, and then Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39569	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, at today's session of the Assembly, we are analysing the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection Act. This is one of the few laws that came across a general consensus like this when it comes to affirmative relations with some law. That's, I say, encouraging and that's good. I don't want to repeat ourselves too much, because 20 speakers -- 20 similar stories. I'm going to try to say something that won't come out of context, but something I'd like to say and also refer to this Ministry and Mr. Minister. The amendments to the law therefore concern only six members of the existing law, but the proposed legislative changes and solutions, however, treat important status and organisational issues, which further improve our country's health care system. It is, therefore, not about mere compliance with EU legislation, but about its own sense of need for health regulation, the most important work in the lives of our citizens, to be followed by modern aspirations. The ministry's efforts to put more order in the functioning of Serbia's health system and legislation are only a small part of what this ministry is doing and what it has done for the past short term to improve the situation in our health care. Large decades of accumulated problems in this important area have been inherited. Organizational, personnel, spatial, technological, corruption problems and many others. The citizens of this country are certainly the most sensitive to problems in the functioning of this activity, and in Serbia, which has been economically destroyed for decades, with all that the transition carries, health problems have increased for years. The Ministry of Health, led by Mr. Loncar, in a short period of envy and dedication has made very significant shifts in the management of the situation in this very sensitive area of the life of an ordinary man. The atmosphere was created primarily by order, work and discipline. Equipment of hospitals and clinical centres with the most modern equipment, scanners, magnetic resonances, gamma knife, accelerator, opening of new heart patients centres, cardio surgery in Nis, are just some of the things that have been done to shorten waiting lists of those most difficult patients and the most urgent patients. Then, improving the spatial conditions for the work of doctors, greater comfort for patients, ambitious plans for the construction of new clinical centres, the setting up of all hospital facilities in Serbia, simplified access by young doctors to specializations, employment of young people, the free fight against corruption, transparency in public procurement, etc. It's just part of what this ministry has done in a very short time, and our citizens see it well. The strong, positive, creative, reforming energy of this government, headed by Prime Minister Vukic, with the desire to break away from poverty and indifference and become an equal partner to the developed countries of Europe and the world, which is my personal impression, is best reflected through the work of this ministry. With the human resources we have, with better organisation and working conditions and improving the economic status of health workers, we can look more optimisticly at the future of this activity, with the desire for our young doctors to find full professional and life affirmation in their country. The papers adopted by this bill refer to some very sensitive issues that the existing law has not regulated or has not been sufficiently precise. I do not wish to repeat myself, but only briefly what is recognised in the work of apothecary institutions and which is decided that the jurisdiction and control of the traffic of non-medical funds can be controlled by the ministry, or should be controlled by the ministry, it only says that, given the specificity and sensitivity of the activity, whether the degree of control rises to the highest possible level. Another member of this bill discusses a solution to the status of teachers or associates of the Faculty of Health Professionals. They've talked about it a lot. I wouldn't do that. The traineeship of health workers has also been regulated in the most just way. So all the workers with high professional training have been evened out, with an internship of six months. Dilems related to the licensing of doctors who failed to do so were also resolved by introducing a license exam and that is also a very favourable and solid solution. The law also resolves dilemmas when a doctor permanently loses his license, I point this out because there was this conflict between Criminal Law and the Health Protection Act. That's what education's all about. The development of the health system and the continued progress of medical science and technology imposes a constant improvement of health workers and health associates. In accordance with the positive legal rules, professional training to improve the quality of healthcare is the right and obligation of all healthcare professionals and health associates. The proposed legislative solutions are precisely in the function of these needs. If you'll excuse me, I would like to use the presence of our minister and his associates to point to something that seems to me is not enough in the focus of all of us. It's about the system of specialization of young doctors and the institution of mentorship. Young doctors during their resident training are left almost as a rule to themselves, especially when a resident comes from a secondary-level facility in a tertiary-level facility. Young doctors are mostly in a position to "steal knowledge" instead of serving them knowledge. This is the status of a doctor at a specialization...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39570	I'm asking you, Mr. Vuccitic, you've gone off topic a little bit and there's not much time, so I'm asking you to conclude your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39571	Here, just one sentence. I appeal, therefore, to pay more attention to mentorship. So, regulate the status of the mentor. Being a mentor is an honor, but there should be a great commitment, and these people need to be especially stimulated. The mentor can't be everyone, it's not enough to have a certain medical internship. Other qualities are needed. The proposed amendments to the law are significant and correct and have full support and MPs from our party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39572	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39573	We heard a lot today from the field of health care and medicine. Most of it has nothing to do with the proposed legal changes, but maybe it's a good thing to open up some more topics. There were a lot of compliments to the ministry, the government and the minister, and at the same time disagreements with the basic concept that this ministry and this minister are offering, and that is primarily a license issue. It almost wasn't, as far as I was listening, a speaker who didn't say anything against that system, so it's a question that definitely needs to be resolved, whether this system of collecting points to extend the license is something that makes sense, or whether it needs to be lifted. If it's something that makes sense, then it needs to be raised to a higher level. Two amendments were made by my colleague Pavicevic and I. One on Article 4, it's a traineeship. It is our view that it should be, instead of six, nine months for health associates with high professional training, that the traineeship lasts nine months and that it is a true classification of six, nine and twelve months of that internship. The second amendment is, I mean, even more important, and that's the question in Article 5. - when prescribing terms for licences. This amendment, and also in the previous text of the law, was done by the minister and we think it is not a good solution, regardless of the minister's personality. Generally that this is not a good solution and that if there is a medical chamber that monitors this additional education, this permanent education, and if that medical chamber gives these licences, then it is perfectly natural for the medical chamber to prescribe conditions, standards and all that is necessary for these licences to be granted. If that's not the case, then the question is whether there should be a medical chamber, and I think it's a general or majority view that it's a good thing that the medical chamber is returned to our health system, that it has its place, as well as many other professional chambers. So, if she's standing in this position where she's now, where she's taking out doctors just as someone who's spoiling their happiness, making them learn, taking money for membership, and she's guilty of losing her licenses, then I don't think there's a need for her to exist at all, and if she is an important institution, like an engineering chamber, like a bar and some similar Ensafian chambers, then she needs to be given the widest level of authority, and that's also the regulation of these standards that I've ever talked about. My colleagues talked about various aspects of life in health and health care, so if you let me get off the topic in these last minutes, about one topic I'm sure the public is very interested in, which is so-called. Cuban vaccines. There was a lot of talk about it. The current minister is not the first minister to promise before the New Year or before the elections the miracle drug that will solve all problems. This has happened before, it's been happening for ten years. I don't think it's a good practice, and the professional public, and especially the sick, who's making a picture that's a miracle that's going to solve their problem, are asking some questions, so if you let me, I'd ask them now. Are all legislative directives, in particular the Regulation on the terms and conditions of the clinical investigation of the medicinal product, the procedure and the content of the dossier, etc., you know what the regulation is, and the regulations on amendments and additions to the Regulation on documentation, you know that regulation? If they're fulfilled, why isn't there a license for this drug on June 17th of this year? Who's funding these clinical studies? How many people have gotten these doses? You invited everyone in Serbia who has this problem to report to a clinic. The estimate is that these people are over 1,100, and according to the information I have, only 30 of them are provided with enough of these doses of vaccines.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39574	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39575	I think it's very bad for people who have big problems to give false hope and it would be good, another sentence, that the competent ministry would give one clear answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39576	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39577	As for licensing and licensing, absolutely every step of this right now that we're talking about was done with the Medical Chamber. So, not only with the Medical Chamber, but every meeting they attended, each of their opinions is respected and with everyone who's interested in this, it's very easy to check, and not only that, they participate in all the other stories. It's one collaboration that's quite good and we don't have any problem here. We don't have a single complaint from them about any of this because everything we do -- or we do it together, if we have time, if it's not urgent, it's on the site, and then anyone can comment and do it. And specifically about what you said, it's absolutely done with them together, so there's no misunderstandings, that people know that. Let's get back to the vaccine now. That's a nice thing to say. Everyone was talking about vaccines, and no one was able to bring that vaccine to Serbia. As you know, the vaccine has arrived in Serbia. Now, we can't stop everyone from having their own story and telling it. What we've said and I repeat, this vaccine is for a certain type of cancer, it's adenocarcinoma. Those numbers of yours aren't true, they're applied to lung cancer on an annual level, they don't get into a guy's division. Therefore, it is not adenocarcinoma. In adenocarcinoma, when they have adenocarcinoma of the lungs, two additional tests must be performed to see if the vaccine will respond. He can't have, the vaccine entered as an unregistered drug and respected absolutely all the procedures that exist. Whoever told you this knows very well, but he has another problem which in 2012, the Anti-Corruption Agency, him while he was the director of that facility, he was giving himself studies and putting himself in charge, so he had to be removed, and he knows very well everything we're talking about. That's just the thing. We don't need to spread out to people, this is going most transparently within 7 to 10 days, the doctors from Cuba are coming to escort it all out. This vaccine comes in as an unregistered cure, it's not paid. So an unregistered drug in our country can't be paid. Here, these are all your facts and we already have a few candidates from all these stories you have on the website of that hospital of Bezanian hair, which are all the conditions that need to be met. You have two consulates that will and will participate, which make a decision where and what will be. You know, it's pretty transparent, but don't just make a miracle that something can happen. What we said, in a particular cancer, you said, in a particular cancer and when it's at a terminal stage, what the results show, what the whole world knows, to extend between two and five years, but in certain lung cancers, not every one. That's the facts. That's what there is. We can't talk to each other right now. Just to get back to advertising these drugs and everything, it's already been noticed, the inspections have gone through all the TV stations and newspapers, and they've already sent warnings that they're sticking to it, that's the first step we can do when it doesn't stick to the rulebook. One more thing, we had here about the mentor, I see he's already out, specializations are under the Ministry of Education, mentor under strict criteria is determined, not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, but no matter what's in charge, together we'll see what's going on and solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39578	I thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Zivkovic, the minister answered only your questions which you could not ask again in the debate, but I tolerated so much. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: But the minister is pleased that I asked the question. Just one explanation. () Yes, but you should be pleased that you have received answers. You'll have to ask questions in the day. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39579	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, as a national physician, would consider my fellow farmer under this law, the proposal for a law by Gordana Comic, to review someone's disarmament. As far as the bill is concerned, I will certainly support it for several reasons, because licensing is very important, especially after these good things that the ministry has done. I should say that the procurement of the "gama knife" is something that the Ministry has done, what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done and what the licensing and permanent education will certainly contribute to better handling, but it is certainly commendable and I would also like the MPs of the opposition to praise it. Also, it should be commended to the government, which is the government's means, not the RFZO's, that three LINAKs have been purchased, and that they missed this country. A team before, which is very important for licensing, especially in Vojvodina, where three public procurements fell, because they wanted to pay for radiation machines and twice as much as it was normal, rather than their price. As a result, in Sremska Kamenica, which leads to the Department of Emissions, for oncology, led by the godfather of the former regime's party, the public procurement fell three times. It is most likely that there was not enough education and that this effort should certainly be commended so that doctors and healthcare professionals are constantly educated and that their licenses are thus verified, i.e. I would say and authenticate. Thanks to the government, it has prevented many people from dying in Vojvodina in Kamenica, order of patients being 700 to 800 people and waiting for three months, which is why most likely why many people died because someone who was licensed in the wrong way, three times repeated public procurement wanting to benefit from several million euros and thus significantly endangered human health, especially if we have in mind that even certain numbers, or places in the ranks, have been reselling, that if you are later scheduled for radiation, you can buy your right to the championship. Much has been done by the government, which certainly means a lot to us in Vojvodina, a team before, which is a very confusing situation there, and therefore I think that this education and licensing will certainly contribute to the fact that, Mr Dragan Draskovic, whose aunt is the prosecutor, the top prosecutor, in a year, had so unlicensed, two billion public procurements without a financial plan and a public procurement plan. No control, his term of office, no consequence of my God, his aunt's a prosecutor. The construction of the Stone Two, most likely due to unlicensed doctors and the lady who now holds a seat in the shadow government, is the one from the shade. So, Ms. Nada Cemerlic, who is now the minister of health in the shadow government, has since 2008, most likely unlicensedly begun the construction of the "Kamenica Two" that was scheduled to end in 2010. It's not in office until today, and it costs three times as much as the estimated amount and most likely qualified it to get into that government in the shade. That is why this government deserves recognition, which is why I will support this law, because besides the law, besides licensing, except for training, except for education, the government has made efforts to ensure that our doctors will most likely not have to go abroad this often, that Serbia does not have to finance doctors to rich German and Western countries. That the most modern technology is imported and introduced into Serbia and that the government found funds very quickly to buy a "gama knife" and three linear accelerators, thus resolving the patient issue. Therefore, we all owe it to support the legal proposal of this government and this ministry, and therefore I will end up with words further, anyone who is healthy, in fact young, regardless of the number of years and that a sick king envys a healthy poor man. I'd like that regardless of our very poor society to be rich in health and therefore I'll support these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39580	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39581	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, we haven't seen you here in over a year, November 8, when you explained the laws here in the Assembly. I'm sorry, I was ten days ago. No, no, I'm speaking here as a minister, the laws you've explained in the tide, I'm not saying that you've been to meetings. So those meetings were and that's okay. I'm talking about legislative activity, so what we discussed here in the field of health on 8 November 2014. So, in general, you came here almost always with amendments and amendments to the law – the Health Protection Act, amendments and additions of two members on 31 August, and on 10 September 2014 – the Law amending and supplementing the Health Insurance Act, the Law on Health Documentation and Records, the whole Act on 8 November last year and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, with a change of three members, then a year ago on 8 November. Now again, we have amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. This law has nine members. I think the state of our health is difficult, not to say a more difficult word. I mean, I don't know if what you suggested today is enough. That's why I'm saying all this. Is what you're coming here for, is that enough? Is he going to solve it? It will solve a small part of the licensing problem, related to an internship that has so far been differently regulated and linked to the position of health workers who have worked, let me say in education, and all of what you've been saying, the problem that exists for 50, 60 years. And this one small part of the drugstore. As I read these changes, the first thing I see is that new powers are given to the ministry. So, about the pharmacies, something needs to be done by the chamber, now it's being transferred to the ministry. Now you've given the Ministry the obligation to prescribe both the exam and the commission by introducing this exam and what it's going to look like. We don't have any of that here and we don't know how it's gonna end. There says one member that is being added -- it's being determined by the ministry, by the commission, and by the programs, we haven't been able to hear anything here today from you. I agree that it is good to introduce, the problem that existed in the financing of teachers and co-workers in clinical cases, that they now, their entire internship and contracts and all come true through the fund. My question – is there enough money in the fund for that now? So this is where the law says it's going to be funded from the fund. My question – is there enough money in the fund? Okay. Maybe I'm wrong. Correct me. Today, as far as I could track most of the colleagues who discussed it are health workers, doctors, and they're certainly much more competent than I am, but as a citizen of this country, I see a trend and I don't see that this trend will end with these changes and additions. Last year, the Chamber of Doctors addressed 1,000 doctors asking for documentation on the basis of which they could seek work outside Serbia. This year, that number will certainly be greater than 1,000. I don't know. I can see the air-conditioned. What I could read from the statements of the people of the Medical Chamber is that this number is 1,000 this year. I know, my good friend today got on a plane and went to Berlin for a job interview. 45 years old, doctor of medicine. He finished specializing, doctored. He's been studying German for two years, and he's going on his first job interview today. It's a reality. A month ago, there was a situation whether or not Serbia's healthcare would be left without 2,500, 3,000 doctors, because the government had passed a regulation, and then at the last minute the Constitutional Court put it out of effect. I don't see the system in all of this. I don't see where we're going, and how we're going to end these bad trends, and that's why I think that these changes and additions to the laws that marked your mandate, I'm talking about legislative activity, only amendments and amendments to the law, two members, three members, today nine members, that's not enough. You've inherited the problems, I don't know if you've made any in the meantime, but I don't see those problems that exist being solved. I think the health situation is worse than it was before. You can laugh, I don't think it's funny. People today die in Serbia only because they go to the hospital and lie down after some simplest surgical operation. What was going on in Turkey just a few weeks ago? I don't want to talk about the personal case I've got and I know what's going on and how it's happening. I don't see that there's an answer, I don't see that we're solving a problem of specialists that aren't in the state, of course, he can't get rid of overnight, that's where we agree. It has to be time and some steps have been made. I'm afraid our time isn't working out. We're gonna educate some young doctors and healthcare professionals, but I'm not sure we're gonna keep them. I'm not sure we'll keep them if the government cuts their salaries 10, 15, 20%, and then offers them an increase of 2%. I have friends, I know what they're telling me, I know how they feel when they go to work. That's not good. It's not a good atmosphere, and that's not gonna make us a healthy society. Not in this literal sense, not in any social sense. That's why I believe that you have to do more than nine members that we're changing today. More than these two, three members we've changed the last time you were here because the situation, I say again, is difficult. I'd say another word, but I'm not gonna use it right now. We will support these changes, they are not controversial but are far from what Serbia's health needs at this point, Serbia's health, Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39582	I thank you, the word has the Minister Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39583	Of course, every one of us can have an opinion, but there's always something we want or don't want to admit. It's that there's someone who's measuring our results and who's measuring what we're doing, if that's okay with you. We were the last one on that list for two years, we moved in a couple of months for three places. That list is revised every year. At the end of this year, they will be revised again, and these are the people who are doing this job from the European Commission, extremely professionally, which we cannot possibly influence. And if they say we moved, that's better than it was, then we can't trust them, neither is it. So these are facts we can't deny. You know very well where we were, what we were, we can't move right away, I don't know how many places, but everyone from the EU and the Commission also praises what we do. Citizens feel like they're moving. Of course it's not good or ideal or anything. You know what, you say I haven't been in a while. If this was done in time, I shouldn't come at all or ever come to power. Who would trade someone who did all this right if anything was done? You would never fall from power. A little bit if you had given health care, or if the people had seen it, if the people had felt it, they would never have come to power, but well, it doesn't matter. As far as you're saying the Ministry of Pharmacy, and today, the Ministry determines what's being sold in pharmacies, but it's not correct, it's again what we found that state pharmacies can only sell drugs and then go to the state pharmacy, and the private one opens right next to you because you can't sell anything else in the state, and then you can sell what's commercial and what you earn goes into a private pharmacy and buy. Children's food, diapers, I don't know what. It's not right, it's really not right that we don't fix this thing. Now, if it bothers you whether or not you're going to correct the Ministry and we're going to say, okay, we're not going as the Ministry because it's in our jurisdiction to let someone else right now, to lose that time. All right, I don't see that logic, but I don't think these people are in a proper position to help them, to have better profits, to work better, they're, they're mentioned where they are and where they are, but at least to be in an equal position as private pharmacies. It's a healthy logic, nothing else. Now, who's gonna bring it in if it's already in the department's jurisdiction, it's... Marko Djurisic, from the scene: How has it been sold so far? Well, there isn't, but under the laws so far, you can't sell food for kids in a state pharmacy. Check it out. Here, let's check it out. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Here, I now go...) No problem, check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39584	Please, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39585	But, well, they'll check out no problem. You'll check and see if it's a state pharmacy. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I buy for children. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39586	Please, Mr. Djurishic, don't talk to the minister like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39587	The next thing you know, thousands were asking, but we have to get out with the number that's gone. So, don't, let's see how many people are really gone. But it is not a problem for Serbia, it is a problem for Croatia, Slovenia, all countries in the environment. People go, go where better conditions are. It is not only in Serbia, but it is ours to make Serbia go as small as possible from Serbia and see how many people can come back. We're absolutely working on it, to do everything. You say yourself, specialization takes five years of specialization. Well, we can't create him overnight. In 2012, no single specialization was granted. Well, what can we do about it? Now you want something that wasn't done, which was forbidden to go to specialization, and even when you get specialization conditions, then it was introduced to do two years, and then to go. Well, how? You can't keep pulling back without asking it to be the result. I don't even understand what logic that is today. If our worst enemy had worked and wanted us to run out of doctors, he would have done it to us, the worst enemy there is, to strike at the core, essentially in Serbia, to say that you would be left without a doctor, if there was no one to treat you, to get to the point that the greatest fear of fear that you couldn't be taken care of would have done it to you. You don't need anything else. We gave almost 2,000 specials. It's just not worth it. As far as wages are concerned, you're saying we should put society on sound ground. Well, how else are we gonna set him up if we don't get on that line, pay as much as we can? Well, was the problem because we paid more than we made, more than we could? So we have to put him where he belongs. We didn't lie, we said before – people, we'd better pay than our children, and we're just doing it, so the system can fit on sound grounds, and of course it's a priority, as we said, and the prime minister and all, that it will be a priority for healthcare professionals to increase wages, because really people deserve, it's nothing controversial. I can't see. We can't go around these things. It's just that our goal is the same. The laws, look at how many laws are on the site and how many are on the public debate and how many will come by the end of the year and how many will remain. It's not easy to change those things. But again, if someone had done it before us, we shouldn't have come at all, there wouldn't be a reason, we'd be doing it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39588	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, as the last reported debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39589	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Ministers of Loncar and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I listened to your presentation this morning, Minister Loncar, and I also checked in my stenogram whether I heard what you said and among other things, you said this morning, when you represented these changes, that this bill did not change the essential solutions of the existing law. Here, a stenogram, a quote, you're the author. I then listened carefully to the former minister, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, who said, Minister Lončar, I will now read to you that what you have proposed today is an extraordinary step, that the ministry has made an extraordinary effort. I, the next certain logic, gentlemen, conclude that you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39590	Mr. Pavicevic, will you perhaps talk a little bit about the law or comment on the speeches of your colleagues?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39591	Well, that's the law. The minister said the law was small changes. The former minister told the law that it was an extraordinary effort. I'm talking about the law, Mr. Vienna. Now, next, I think, logic, I conclude that in the ruling coalition with extraordinary effort, Mr. Lonchar, you call some minor changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39592	Mr. Pavicevic, would you like to talk a little bit about the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39593	Mr. Becic, I'm talking about the law, unlike a large number of MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39594	I ask you not to comment on the speeches of your colleagues. You are not a member of the government to comment and respond to the speeches of your colleagues, but you are one of the MPs who should speak on this subject. If you don't know what's on the agenda, I'll tell you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39595	I comment on the Secretary's speech on the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39596	You may be a minister, but not your fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39597	And former Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Well, how? Was her speech relevant? She's a doctor, a former minister. I conclude that in the ruling coalition for this bill, for its contents...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39598	I'm gonna have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39599	Well, you can't, Mr. Vienna. I'm talking about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39600	You haven't said a word about the law yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39601	Well, what am I? I comment on the minister's comment and you took away my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39602	You just said to comment on your colleagues' speeches and I can't let you do that. The minister can comment, which is why he is a representative of the government, to answer the questions of the MPs and to explain the law, and you, unfortunately, are not. Whether or not you will be, the Serbian citizens will decide. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Here, question Minister. It can't, it's not Thursday. Tomorrow it will be, and you can ask a question. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Minister's question on the bill. You can only ask a question as part of an explanation of why you are or are not for this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39603	I'm against this bill. I ask the Minister, Mr. Becic, regarding the content of this bill, that this, Minister Loncar, is your maximum, because today in the discussion is said to be your maximum? Well, gentlemen, I'm moving on. Mr. Zivkovic has asked you a question about this point as well. You, Mr. Lonchar, have answered, but you've dealt with too much with who our source is for that matter. Then you said so little that you knew it was one person of the male sex. Here, let me tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39604	Mr Pavicevic, do you know anything about yours to say besides commenting on your colleague, other MPs? I understand that you must leave all your knowledge to others, but come on, leave something for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39605	Mr. Lonchar, I ask you, why is there no major change to the Health Protection Act, but in your words, you came here today with some minor changes? Why do I ask you that? Because you've been here for a year and eight months. My expectation, as one of the people's MPs who wanted to control the government's work, was that the changes you're coming with would be more significant. That person's from Torlak, just so you know. Mr. Becic is interested in other things. Mr. Lonchar, in countries in the region, here I am, doing a little bit of statistics, giving up to four times as much money for health care as we do in the region, for example. Health leave in the Netherlands 12% of GDP, in Germany and France 11.6%, with us 3.6%. And then, Mr. Loncar, it's no wonder that one of our citizens' most expressed fears, and there Mr. Bozovic was right, precisely the fear of inability to treat. You said today, Mr. Lonchar, that this fear is no longer so great, that the reforms were so great that now that fear is less. Give me the research, Mr. Lonchar, based on which you can claim it. Give me here a study of who the authors are, the authors of this research, and then let's make sure that's true. I've been in contact with citizens, and every day since I've been a member of the Parliament in contact with citizens, I don't have that kind of information, Mr. Lonchar. Then I return you to the question – why is there no major change to the Health Protection Act? We, Mr. Lonchar, have a proposal here, which we mentioned every time you came to the Assembly. Our proposal is that with what the current health system is replacing with one model that you all know here, and Mrs. Djukić Dejanovic, and she discussed... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39606	It's been five minutes, Mr. Pavicevic. I'm sorry, Mr. Pavicevic, that unlike your colleagues, you talked about everything and everything, about research, but not a single sentence on the bill on amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39607	We don't have a problem. I suggest that you finance and do the research. You claim one thing, here's the funding, we'll do research, no problem. The second thing, thank you very much, this is a really big compliment that we have these results with four times less money. Thank you. We're not behind on that at all, and we're somewhere better than those who invest four times as much. So there's no problem here. Why aren't we the law and this? I guess maybe the maybes and the citizens miss every day the front page of the appeal to help some kid do something that we couldn't live on. Soon there will be a year of the Fund where dozens of children have been helped, treated, diagnosed, and no more of this. Maybe you will, maybe the citizens will miss the emergency car shopping action. I'll remind you that we bought over 60 of the most modernly equipped. Maybe they miss that separate money from the budget, that the citizens paid, that a tender was called, that a company was found to sell it, and then the money was paid to the company, so there was no company or car or anything. It's nothing to do with you, I know, but you're asking what happened. I have to tell you what happened. I have to inform you that there will be 30 operations on the gamma knife soon, calling from India, calling from the region to send their patients here. I want to remind you, maybe that's the problem of people who have a paliatical problem in the terminal stages of the disease, that in all hospitals we have capacity for a minimum of 10-15% qualified to receive such patients, because people don't know where they're going with them. Let me remind you, it may bother you that we bought four accelerators, signed contracts, and now we'll have six more accelerators to buy, the state-of-the-art accelerants and cancel the waiting list, because maybe we've improved the food for pregnant women and maternity mothers. For 24 hours, only one plate is required to be found to throw out the picture that something is wrong. Maybe it's wrong that we're going to turn the hospitals around and fix the sanitary knots. Maybe it's missing someone, but no matter what, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39608	Thank you, Mr. Lonchart. The word has a folk MP Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, a replica of Mr Pavic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39609	Mr. Vice President, you have had other options regarding the violation of the Rules of Procedure regarding the address of the previous speaker, Mr. Pavicevic. But I have a need to say that I am simply surprised by his fascination with terms, not essentially. Because of the reputation of the high house, I'm ready to talk to him outside the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39610	Thank you. You saw that I had more attempts to point to Mr Pavicevic's abuse of the Rules of Procedure and believe me, I wish I had done it, but unfortunately I didn't. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Pavicevic, I think it's too ugly that you're looking for a replica right now. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: There will be an amendment. Go ahead, Mr. Pavicevic. We'll be in a very good mood for your exposure. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39611	Dear President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, at the end of today's work on amendments to the Health Protection Act and was mostly a good, constructive debate on how to help with our experience and examples to improve the law and how to improve health care, as regards our patients, our citizens who have a health problem. What was said in the debate was that there were a lot of irregularities in the previous period, I want to support the current ministry to examine all these irregularities of the financial type and all these tenders that were suspicious, because specifically the Democratic Party does not want to bear the burden, at least as far as the health sector is concerned. In my opinion, it was a huge mistake of DS because it did not seek responsibility in the health sector and in the education sector, but rather left it to coalition partners. I'm asking from this place to examine any malfeasances that may be under question. I personally suspect some tenders, I suspect some donations from abroad that have gone in since 2000, where they ended up, whether they ended up in private clinics, that all waiting lists should be examined, to see if the directors of certain health institutions and the owners of some private clinics and to go along with some common fight against some anomalies in the health sector, and there are. So, I'm confirming to you that there are some of them in the health sector, and that we don't argue about that kind of thing. The other thing, the minister made a point. I think one of my fellow MPs was talking. We're poor, but there's a possibility. I'd like to commend one of the directors of Tirshaw University Hospital. I almost visited that facility, running one of my young Nishi's heart surgery at that hospital. I'm often there with some emergency and I can tell that this clinic now looks at least cleaner on the inside. She looks really bad on the outside, she's in a really bad shape, she's old, but inside she looks cleaner. It's something that's the household behavior of some director of the facility, so you don't need a minister to do it, you don't need a Parliament to do it. For that you need a little goodwill, a little movement, and some things that are bad in many of our hospitals, which is one more polite way to treat our citizens in these hospitals. I want to commend my colleague, Professor Zoran Radojićic, to the public in the Assembly, because there has been some progress in that institution, but I will take advantage of the opportunity to present my one opinion and observation to you, which is that our hospitals are in poor condition, that we may need in the years to come to create a reference large university clinic, a children's clinic, to be summed up and the children's internal clinic of Tirshova, but also the Institute for Mother and Child, that we have a reference center in the Balkans that will be proud of our country and our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39612	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39613	Dear Chairman, respected ministers, honored guests and distinguished fellow MPs, I would not really as my colleague Slavica Djukic Dejanovic speak to a gentleman outside the session because this would mean another kind of impotence. What I really mean after today's debate is that I had the hope that today's topic would be seen differently by fellow Members of Parliament. I had the hope of not politicizing what should not be politicized, it is health care, but it is obvious that certain discussions of certain MPs speak more of them than of the subject. What is important and what I think is right now standing as a fact is that citizens and people have recognised this kind of policymaking and, of course, punished in the elections. What I would also say is that as an example of just such discussions, I would like to set a concrete example of a young colleague who discussed at the outset, who made the introduction that he was not professional, but that he would like to discuss, and then ask for a blessing from his older colleague in the parliamentary benches. The fact is that the blessings of both such terminology and such behaviour in the National Assembly and parliament, the fact is that their party functions would have long been resolved, to use this church terminology. On the other hand, I really think that a professional discussion at the highest level should really be left to people who are professional, professional and are very well understood in this problem. I've also looked at the amendments, and I don't think this is a problem that needs to be insisted precisely on criticism because in these laws, I repeat again, we are pioneers of the introduction of legality and order in certain areas and we are introducing law and order into the field of licensing and education, which is certainly the basis for further progress in the health system. Thank you very much, and I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-18-0.u39614	I thank Mr. Laketić, but not only to be misunderstood, what you said in the debate was about a colleague of Pavicevic, it turned out to refer to Mrs. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. Continuation is tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary voting units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go, Mr. Chiquiriz.
