ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25790	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry, ministers and the chairman, the SNP wants to point out that it is not necessary to extend beyond the circle of the authorities referred to in Article 1 to other entities as well as to carry out inspectional supervision. In fact, even during the principle debate, we pointed out that there was a great risk, i.e. A major problem is that many authorities today would carry out inspection controls and that their work is not coordinated and therefore suffer both citizens and business entities. We, as a party, are committed to creating a very efficient inspection system in which there will be considerable clarity of jurisdiction and the very responsibility of all these entities. The Serbian People's Party therefore believes it is not necessary to extend the right of inspection supervision to other entities with legal powers that could be regulated by a special law, but rather enough for the authorities of the state administration and territorial autonomy and local self-government to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25791	Thank you. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Aleksandar Senić and the MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradić submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25792	Please, the chairman, first clarification. So you've now read the amendment to Article 3. What about the amendment to Article 2(1)?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25793	To Article 3, this is an amendment. In Article 3(2), it is changed and read – the inspector is an official person, etc., not to quote your amendment. That's where we came in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25794	We have submitted an amendment to Article 2(2), where after the position...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25795	Ambassador, you weren't in the O.R., no one answered. I apologize to you, but we started working at 10.05 hours. Do you want to speak under this amendment to Article 3?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25796	No, I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25797	Thank you. The 3rd amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25798	As regards Article 3, the SNP considers that it is of great importance to cover the inspection controls and all entities in order to achieve the purpose of the law and thus bring order to the state. The regulated state restores citizens' confidence in its institutions and the SNP believes that restoring confidence in the state, in addition to economic development, is one of the most important issues that is being brought through the public today. The paper always implies justice, and in this case it means that no supervisory entity should think that some other entities are excluded from the law which is currently the subject of the agenda. This law is precisely aimed at preventing the phenomena we are and how we are aware, which have led to the spread of the grey economy and the avoidance of tax payments, as well as the avoidance of the application and other secondary laws affecting them. With this amendment, we want to specify that surveillance entities are not only enrolled in the Agency for Business Registers, but are also registered in the register run by the economic court, health institutions, schools, trade unions and, let's say, are held in the register of the Ministry of Labour. We believe that all entities should be covered by this law, not just those registered with the Agency for Economic Registers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25799	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Aleksandra Tomic and Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25800	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with their team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I would primarily like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the entire team for their commitment and good co-operation with the MPs, especially with members of the Economic Cocus in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and for being together with representatives of the economy, economic operators and business associations, have come up with a solution that will make this law the greatest possible and more appropriate for the needs of the economy. In any case, it brings a whole new concept of the state administration's relationship to the economy, as well as the role of inspection services in the entire state system, but also in relation to the economy itself and economic operators. This amendment to Article 4 makes and will make the grey economy, which currently implies around 30% of the country's gross domestic product, to reduce to the lowest possible level and define that the provisions of the special laws cannot be excluded from this, as they would say, roof, system law when it comes to editing work and functioning inspection services. I thank you once again for your sensitivity to adopt this amendment to the Economic Cocussus and to do everything and to make every effort to make it useful for the economy and beneficial for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25801	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25802	Thank you, Madam Chairman. This Article 4 speaks of the application of the law and the relation to other laws, and we have proposed amending Article 6 and erasing attitude 7. In paragraph 6, we proposed an amendment to say: "the tax police, as a special organisation in the unit", are deleted, for the simple reason that we consider it more appropriate to exclude the work of the entire tax administration from the application of this law, not only the tax police, and since the work of the tax administration is fully regulated by the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was changed in 2014 precisely to make the work of the tax inspection government much more effective. We propose to delete Article 7 which regulates that the application of this law does not introduce an obligation for additional employment and that units of local self-government will carry out these tasks in accordance with the rules governing employment in local self-government units. We are proposing to delete because we believe that such a provision is not a place in the member that regulates the application of this law and the relationship with other laws, and it is not clear why the restriction stands out only with regard to the units of local self-government and not with regard to the authorities of the state administration, since the restriction of employment in the state administration and the public sector is provided for by another law. The budget system law. So I suggest, Madam Minister, that you reconsider and accept this amendment. I think it makes sense and that, first of all, it regulates the work of the tax police and tax administration. that it refers to the law concerning them, and secondly, to determine whether people can be employed or not in budgetary institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25803	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25804	I would briefly comment on this proposal that the entire tax administration is actually exempt from this law. I have to say, and I want to underline that this reflects the lack of understanding of the essence of the law that has often appeared in our co-operation and the preparation of this law with different inspection services. I'd like to underline it one more time. The specific procedures of each of the inspection services, including the tax administrations, which are regulated in accordance with the regulations and in accordance with EU regulations, means that they are liquids and comply with the principles laid down by this law, do not have to be changed at all. The bottom line is that there are more and less reformed inspection services and that this law makes those who have not adapted, who have not been modernised, whose principles do not correspond to those laid down in this law, set up by this law, force these tax procedures to adapt, and we will not force anyone to change specific tax procedures if they are already in line with these principles. In fact, we have not yet encountered a case where some of the principles laid down by this law must remain, so to speak, to violate some special needs of special inspection services. We have no doubt that we will come across this and then it will remain regulated differently by a special law. Nothing unreasonable will come out of this law. On the contrary, it only forces coordination and tax administrations to be coordinated is the most important and most powerful and powerful inspection service that should give an example and with which other inspections should be coordinated, but the tax administration should also coordinate, if something remains uncoordinated, with these principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25805	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25806	I would ask the Minister to comment on attitude 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25807	I think she commented, explained the essence of the law, and there's nothing more to add. Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Blagoja. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25808	Thank you, President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you unfortunately did not accept some of the key amendments submitted by our parliamentary group, and our wish was to fix, as far as possible, this law, although we made it clear that this law is very bad and that, if we accepted all these amendments, it was only bad and nothing more and the citizens of this bad law would have no use. We tried to submit amendments that would benefit the citizens of Serbia, because this law was not made according to their scope. In particular, on this amendment, at its non-acceptance, you show it. In this amendment, that is, in the Member we have responded to with our amendment, we have requested that the 15-day period for the conduct of state authorities, the authorities of the autonomous province or local self-government be reduced to seven days, i.e. five days for the first time and another three days for subsequent treatment. Why have we submitted this amendment? Because we believe that leaving the deadline for state authorities to consider for 15 days and the answers to the inspection bodies is unacceptablely long. So imagine you're handling inspection bodies in any case in the field of protection at work, in the area of fire protection, in the area of maintaining communal order, etc., etc. They apply, I will use the time of the head of the parliamentary group, a certain body of state administration, the province's self-government or local self-government, and these authorities have 15 days to respond. What kind of matter is that where they can't give an answer within five days? We've given the possibility to give an additional five days if the competent state authority makes a reasoned request. Isn't that a more logical solution by which the state authority would have five days to respond and with a special reasoned request to the inspection authority for an additional five days? It's a total of 10 days. In this way, Madam Prime Minister, Minister, you give too many deadlines, you slow down the work of inspection authorities, and you create a trom system as it has been so far in the work of inspection bodies, because the state authorities will use a maximum deadline and because inspection supervision will last indefinitely long, because you haven't solved the question - what if that response to the Authority is incomplete? Does this mean the new 15 days and the new 15 days that can be 45 days of additional demands? We also set a deadline for this additional request, supplementing the requirements, and we said that, at the request of the inspection bodies, the competent authority, the state authority, must give an additional response within three days. In that case, our deadline would be five days, possibly another five days, but the supplemental response would only be three days. In that sense, we went towards efficiency, which was the goal of our amendments, unlike your law, which is, in all matters, a law that does not provide for the efficiency of the work of inspection bodies, and we have seen how many inspections there are. We agree, and this is in an analysis of inspections in the Republic of Serbia, in an elaborat which was made on the subject, the work of inspections has been found ineffective. And you don't want to accept this amendment that we are promoting the efficiency of inspection bodies, but you're leaving one long deadline for the authorities, as they are already troms, to continue working and we think it's very bad. On the other hand, you left one unconstitutional and unfounded provision under the law, since it does not comply with the Constitution, where you say representatives of the private sector. So, Mrs. Udovicki, in our legal system, there is no word - the private sector, and you cannot introduce it into the inspection control law, therefore, there is no private sector. With us, the only thing the Constitution says is equal private cooperative and state property. Where did you get the private sector? What does the private sector mean? Is the private sector something you're introducing now as a new category? Is a company of 20 – 30,000 employees of the private sector, and some other company, which is, for example, a stock company in another form of property, is not a private sector. How do you introduce a private sector into regulation beyond the Law on private societies? I beg you, Deputy Prime Minister, answer one question. Do you and what kind of co-operation do you have with an economic cocussus? This question has long been carried out through the work of this congregation. That is, of course, a question for the forefather of the National Assembly. What kind of economic cocus, is it a body based on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or is it an interesting organization whose amendments usually pass? So, the coconut, it's from the American Parliament. So, you accept their amendments and they say you work well together, you cooperate well, and you don't accept our amendments. I ask you, let them legitize – what does economic cocus mean and did you cooperate with them, and what is the private interest of that economic cocuss? So we in this House are listening, but from the debate in the debate, the economic cocus has taken a stand, the government has accepted the position of the economic cocus. What is it, President, an economic cocus? Are you ever present at this economic cocus that exists within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and do you, as Mr Marinkovic says, co-operate with the Vice-Presidents of the Government with this economic coconut? So, what is this body that is working with your government to make laws, which are apparently to the detriment of the interests of Serbian citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25809	Minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25810	It is common knowledge and clarity to all citizens of Serbia, that the issue of deadlines and silence of the administration when citizens or businesses need something, is one of the cancers of the early functioning of our state and state administration. This government and this ministry, they take it very seriously and deal with it. It cannot be solved by tampering in one law of any procedure that public administration needs, or by its representatives, in this case inspection, to undertake a thousand possibilities for something to happen so that it may not happen, so that another small deadline is given to it, so that perhaps a deadline like this might happen. Finally, your amendment proposes a total of 13 days compared to our 15. No fundamental change is that. This government and this ministry are working very hard. A round table was recently held on which representatives of the most qualified and professional institutions were invited to discuss it. So we're working very intensively on adopting a new law on general administrative procedure which will be very detailed and in a new way to address this problem. It will be a general law that will apply to all administrative procedures and to inspection. In addition to changing the regulation in a way that we can then strengthen the discipline of responsibility and responsibility for silence throughout the administration, we will also implement measures that will make the letter of the law finally begin to be respected in this respect. I cannot promise Serbian citizens that the results will be sensitive and visible very quickly. The law is to be passed to the Assembly in June. We want all representatives of the administration to get to know him very carefully and very well. Postponing will probably take a whole year. In the meantime, we will also prepare resources and training to implement it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25811	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25812	Madam President, the DS MPs will support this amendment for one reason, which we believe is that not accepting this amendment in the part in which the words "private sector representatives" are requested to be deleted is actually contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We understand the Ministry's intention to point out the need for inspection supervision to include preventive, consulting functions of inspection in the future. However, the private sector cannot be drawn to the centre of attention this way because of Article 82. The constitution in basic principles speaks of the equality of private and all other forms of property. What you could say in this article is that you will have consultations with representatives of business entities, etc., in any case equal access to all economic operators in our country is something that is expected to be respected by the government. That is why we support this amendment by our colleagues, and we believe that the Government is making a mistake not to accept it in a very direct way and is actually acting contrary to Article 82. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25813	The word has a Udovici minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25814	Once again, this is an opportunity for the previous speaker to respond to this proposal. You misread the use of the word "private sector". This is not about the property of the sector. It's about sharing in public and private spheres. If we'd just limited the economy, then the citizens would have been left out. Please consider that there are different ways of using the word and that it is time for us to interpret laws in Serbian legislation as is reasonable to interpret them. Without it, they will become infinitely long, because we need every single thing we say five more times to explain and we're going to drop some of what might happen in reality again. So again, I think it's completely unwarranted of your position.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25815	The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25816	Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25817	No, I don't. The question was addressed to me and to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25818	Okay. I'm just going to say that I imagined that we were all in parliament just finished and crossed with communist ideology and that the mention of the private sector is no longer heresy and that we live in a liberal market economy that we want to create, a modern capitalist society. Now we come to the fact that the private sector is private capital heresy. As far as this amendment is concerned, and as regards the co-operation of the economic coke with the vice-president of the government, I would only say that the previous speaker may ask the same question to fellow counterpart Aleksandr Senic, who is a member of the party to which the previous speaker belongs and who is very actively participating in this informal parliamentary group. I think that someone who is a doctor of law, who teaches at Law School should know the Rules of Procedure and this is no newspaper, there is a Green Parliamentary Group that works very well, there is a Women's Parliamentary Network, there are some 12 MPs from different political parties, and what is the greatest value these are representatives of the positional and opposition parties who want to work hard and intensively with the economy, they want to create a more productive and better game of human abilities and knowledge in this country, they want to make our country as competitive as possible, to be as productive and better. Finally, intensive co-operation is also with representatives of local self-government, representatives of the economy, and I think it is only one big plus and an additional impulse to parliament, but also to all state institutions that laws it makes and all that it does to see that it has an interest, both businessmen, therefore those who pay taxes, which create additional value, which creates competitiveness in our country, of course, indirectly and indirectly, in that way and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm asking all my colleagues to get serious, figure out what time we're living in, to work on developing our economy...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25819	I'm asking you about the amendment. Thank you. I took time from your group, but you used it in some way, but I just took it away, I didn't take it. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25820	Dear President, of course I will not accept this amendment for the reason that it is unacceptable, inadmissible, inappropriate, because the 15-day period is appropriate and primarily reasonable for any lawyer, but also for those who are not a lawyer, as the Government has stated, with other deadlines and generally known in law. So 15 days is generally known right, let's say, from Roman law to today. Any narrowing of the deadlines is not appropriate and is not reasonable. One of the speakers said, "Your law is not our law; this is the law of all the messengers in this congregation." I guess we've crossed the line that it's not yours anymore, ours, whether you gentlemen vote for it or not. He is ours, the Serbian Parliament and all the MPs. In that sense, I am really against this amendment. I think that the government gave an extremely correct explanation, especially in relation to the private sector and the minister's lady with an additional explanation. I guess there's no one in this room, not only in this room, but also from the citizens of Serbia without being clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25821	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25822	You gave Mr. Marinkovic a replica, but it doesn't matter. So I'll answer what he said. He should understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25823	I'm taking it from your authority. I didn't give the line. By authority, whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25824	Mr. Marinkovic should understand some basic legal concepts, it doesn't matter what he finished private colleges. The completion of a private college should, however, allow him to have basic knowledge. Private property is not an economic category, it is not about taking private property. On the contrary, it is about strengthening the constitutional principle of equality of all forms of property and when all forms of property are strengthened then three forms of property that exist in the Constitution and cannot be introduced by one law by private sector as a new legal category. A colleague, Vuckovic, once again explained this very well. Mrs. Widowsky, you didn't have any high-quality lawyers who could make this grow. You can't talk about the public and private sectors here as it's actually recognized in real law. So it's not possible in this case. In this case, you rule out everything that is not a private sector, which is, for example, a cooperative property as an equal form of property. At the very least, it creates a confusion, because you have in some way introduced a new term that cannot be strengthened beyond a valid legal system. No, Madam Vice President, 13 days. We have made it clear that the state authority or authority of the province, the local self-government, is required to respond within five days. Exceptionally, the state authority, the authorities of the autonomous province, the units of local self-government, public authorities may, on a timely basis, request an additional five days. Therefore, on the basis of that argument, the inspection body shall assess whether it will grant it these additional five days or not. With these three days, we've only solved the issue of additional additions, additional data provided by the state authority. Those three days are unrelated to this deadline. These three days can replace some 15 new days in which the inspection authority would ask for some data, and the state authority said, "It takes 15 days for me to do so, even though he was already giving answers to that same thing." In that sense, I believe, the authorised representatives, the Deputy Prime Minister, that you have not respected the key thing to try to make this law a more effective law and I believe that the wait of June, July, etc. is irresponsible, first of all, given that we have some common position that this law is above all laws when it comes to respecting the laws that we have voted here in the National Assembly. This law through the inspection bodies should ensure the application of the laws passed and you through this law were able to provide a more efficient state administration, which, unfortunately, you did not do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25825	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25826	Thank you, Madam President. I join the comments that the amendment should not be accepted. On the subject of deadlines, every time we talk about a deadline, we talk about what was delivered as the maximum possible number of days. So analyze all possible scenarios and you in the text of the bill have a maximum period of 15 days. The same goes for the story we just heard. Whether or not any extension variant will be used, the maximum time limit is the maximum time limit and when you look at the original proposal, which means a 15-day period, that doesn't stop anyone from doing the job in two. But always compare the maximum to the maximum and that's the basis of the whole story and there's no need to talk about it any further. When it comes to the emphasis of the private sector, there is no objection that this violates the principle of equality, because why? Look at the formulation, first of all, of what it's about, a reminder. We are talking about informative and educational stands and consulting meetings. So no one can say that it's something particularly sensitive. It is very clear that this is about meetings, exchange of information, and the literally formulation concerns representatives of the private sector and other stakeholders. As you can see, this is as wide as possible as it comes to inclusiveness. I mean, literally anyone can get into this category. If he shows interest, he's an interested party. Class A, call anyone or anyone else who wants to, is practically down to anyone else, so maybe it's actually just in place of a comment that this formula is redundant, that it implies more than words have to be spent and could be accepted to be simply anyone who wants to be. It would mean the same thing as it does now, but if it were exclusive for anyone, it absolutely doesn't stand. Personally, why do I suggest that no amendment be adopted? Because it prevents the preventive involvement of the municipal police and police in a situation where it's justified. We don't have to remind ourselves that in practice there are situations where there is knowledge. One of the amendments accepted was further legally broken now with a formulation – established doubt that there is a need to provide these authorities with assistance. So I think it's good to have that kind of help and that kind of preventive mechanism, so that no amendment is adopted which eliminates that kind of aid at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25827	The word is Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25828	Madam President, it's just the clarifications that work. So our attention is to make the laws as precise and as high-quality as possible and that is why I react. First of all, the interest is, of course, our business people, private citizens and, above all, owners of small and medium-sized enterprises most exposed to the bad conduct of inspections on the ground. Their interest is indeed to introduce both consultation and preventive action, etc., and we support the proposal's intention. What we believe is that the law and our legislative texts never define what the private sector is. In the meaning of the term at the beginning of the bill, you also did not define what the private sector is. It is known to me, of course, that in some theory there is a story and a theory of three sectors – public, private, third or non-profit, etc., but it is quite, very bad that we use undefined terms in a legislative sense in one law, because we will not know exactly what this applies to. Interpretations can be wrong. Why, after all, did we not mention the non-profit sector as the third sector with which consultations should also be held, etc? So, what I'm saying is that it's very important that the law is consistent, that we have clear expressions and that it has a clear meaning of the expression that we use, and that what I'm saying is that we can't get out of context exclusively private property because there's a constitutional provision on the equality of all forms of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25829	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25830	I thank the esteemed president. I thought as a People's Messenger that we had all committed ourselves, that we would all, as ambassadors, honor the Constitution. There was a clear discrimination and violation of the Constitution here, but let's say that the previous speaker discriminated against me, rather than discriminated against his head of the parliamentary group, of course, whom I respect and highly appreciate for his very constructive speeches and professional performances, but in any case, I did not expect this kind of discrimination in terms of the separation of the private sector and the public sector, I absolutely couldn't expect from any of my colleagues, nor from a colleague who mentioned it earlier. So, in any case, as a national MP, I will be committed to this goal of making, together with my colleagues, both from the economic coke and all those who are prepared for a better economic environment, the environment for investment, for attracting foreign investment, for developing the domestic economy of small and medium-sized enterprises, I will always do so, before I am part of a non-ideal opposition that has no single proposal, no concrete solution and a response to what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Parliament are offering under the economic programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25831	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25832	The MPs of the New Party have proposed 22 amendments, 15 are accepted in the text as we have submitted, one because before that an amendment that improves this article we have given the amendment, so it is obvious that we had good intentions in relation to the analysis of this law. We commended the law in the principle debate, so that's where we stay on that statement, but here's a fellow MP right. This formulation is not a place in this good law, in our opinion, that I do not repeat arguments concerning the constitutional definition of property and private property and that division. I am even more concerned with the formulation of "a meeting with representatives of the private sector". How are you going to determine who the private sector representatives are? It's a completely inconclusive thing, it's not even chambers, it's not associations either, the representatives would have to go through some process that as many of them as there are in all of Serbia singled out a few who would be representatives. So, I think it's the wrong formula and it needs to be changed. I don't think it endangers the essence of the law in any way, I think it improves accuracy in the definition of what this law should bring to the Serbian economic union and the environment, and I appeal to the minister that, if it is in its capacity, accept this either as an amendment or as an amendment, I think that fellow Jankovic would be pleased to be through a legal and technical correction or in some way, because I think a completely unjust way is given this remark. Also, at all the 7th is a change that, I think, is completely in place, where attitude 7 is changing, and practically out of it is the formulation that in connection with the conduct of inspection surveillance - if the supervised entity is expected to resist. How can it be expected to resist? If he's been resisting and doing something that's against the law before, then there's the authority of the competent authorities, the communal police, the police, the prosecution, who, but the ability of the tax inspector to expect someone to resist, so because he needs to go with the assistance of the police or the municipal police, I don't think we're here, I don't want to make a big threat out of that formulation, but he can easily get into a situation where every tax inspector should lead a police officer with him, which is far from the job of the tax inspector or the police, and he can look like us and the people who live in this country, including investors, domestic and foreign, that in fact, we are doing tax laws to this classical police, which is not a good thing. I think it's hard to imagine that it improves the economic environment, even as it's seen by an economic couscous, by going besides every tax officer to go one officer with a gun and preventing possible preventative rejection or resistance from providing a person who will be part of control. It was still missing to write here – private owner or private sector, and then to get one highest-level segregation. So, I think the law is good and we, colleague Pavicevic and I, said in the principle debate, that the law is good, that it should be supported, that there are ten, fifteen, twenty-two faults that we have tried to point out through our amendments, I repeat, fifteen has been accepted. Some other colleagues have recognized in some other members of the flaw that one political cosmetic can make this law level to be not only good, but also very good. Therefore, I think this is a good opportunity to adopt this proposal and get a law that will really mark one shift in creating a better business environment in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25833	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25834	I would like to thank the President. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, that is to say, the same should be observed with several aspects, but the most important aspect here is the application itself, the direct application in the practical sense of the words of this member. First of all, it should come from the fact that the law applies to all cases and that the law must relate to all the circumstances that may arise in the given situation. If this amendment were to be accepted, in that case there would be a violation of that principle which is otherwise indicated here when the draft of this law is adopted, which is the principle of prevention or preventive action. What's this about? If the inspection would require assistance or assistance from the police or the municipal police only in the event of opposition from the supervised entity, it would be only one situation. What are we going to do in the situation if there is indeed an assessment that this supervised entity will resist and that this assessment has a basis for what the earlier situation implies, so, already previously exhibited behaviour, already given or demonstrated manifestations of behaviour by the supervised entity, it is indeed what it is and, therefore, must be applied in certain cases and the measures of coercion. If this amendment were to be accepted, it would be selective, because it would only apply to one situation, and we have far more situations and what is most important in the legal system and in the interpretation of the law is that the law must literally cover all situations that can be covered, which is not foreseen in this amendment. Therefore, this amendment should not be accepted, given the essence and meaning of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25835	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25836	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference in perception of the concept of this law. The essence and one of the reasons why we are passing this law is said to be because there is a widespread grey and black economy in the state of Serbia. We've been listening to different data today, and these days, about what the size of the gray economy is. Usually it's about a grey economy the size of a third of GDP, someone's saying it's one-third of the fiscal income, these are different categories, one-third of the fiscal income doesn't have to be one-third of the GDP, but whatever, the grey economy is significant. The grey economy is founded in the functioning of the state authorities above all, because we cannot talk about the gray economy if we do not realize that there is a problem in inspection services. No one spoke, but there must be a problem in customs. Without the connection of customs, people who deal with the gray economy and inspection services, that size of the gray economy couldn't exist. If this grey economy has to be solved in the next period of time, then it's practically the level of organised crime in that area. It's not about small producers, small domestic activities, it's about a third of the social gross product. In a situation like this, it's perfectly normal that the perception that if you have so much and so much danger in the functioning of the gray economy, then it's inevitable and the protection of people who deal with inspections. It's just that we're going to get into a situation where we're facing a gray economy with huge problems that have to be solved by at least a threat, not a force, but the protection of the people who are conducting the inspection. In that context, if we ignore that fact, then a amendment like this would bring people dealing with the inspection service into a very unfavourable situation. The inspection service is also an inspection service in the area of determining the quality of the measuring position in the sale of electricity. There are dozens and dozens of cases of everyday life, and we know that people who deal with this kind of control come into danger and come into a situation that even their life existence is threatened. I therefore consider this amendment to be a normal function, which says that in the assessment of the expectations of people dealing with inspections there is a danger in carrying out inspection surveillance, this control and protection by police and municipal police, which are preventive, is essentially a functioning, future operation of inspection services. This law concerns not only the responsibilities of people who are engaged and controlled, but also the control and operation of people who carry out inspection. If it is clearly defined by them and if the consequences of their abuse are clearly specified, then I see no reason why this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25837	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25838	I would once again try to point out to all Serbian lawmakers and citizens that this law, not only is the paper in the sense that it requires coordination, a kind of co-operation between parts of the administration which, unfortunately today is not a regular practice, is also a newspaper in the way it regulates, according to the legislative procedure, so to speak, which it sets. This law relies heavily on principles. It's necessary in the modern state. We in Serbia have made a bad administration because we have made of our employees machines that interpret the law as if it were an algorithmic formula – yes, it is not, it is not. Then we get into a situation where officials face real situations. For example, you didn't write a word or something in large letters instead of small letters, because it says there in the regulation that it shouldn't be and rejects you, and it makes much, much greater damage than that formality has been overcome. We must distinguish between principles and formalities in our regulation. This law pushes, so to speak, the limits of our legislative practice, do not cross it. A reasonable lawyer, a reasonable official, a reasonable interpreter knows very well what the intention of each of these members is, but we do not want to go back to the regulation that leads to the fact that without thinking and applying the letter of the law literally and formalistly sometimes we do more damage than that law has ever been. So, in this article that is now being talked about and used for political purposes, absolutely no harm can come from what has been put in place, even if it is literally interpreted, and one very important principle is that the public administration must consult and exchange opinions and inform the public and stakeholders when considering and improving its work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25839	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25840	Thank you. When it comes to this amendment, I would specifically refer to Section 7. In fact, I would refer to the exposure of my esteemed colleague, Nedja Jovanovic. In fact, if the wording of the amendment is accepted, I believe that it would be a major threat to preventive action, and in fact this whole law, or the bill of law, is conceived in such a way as to insist on preventive action. So, I think it's much better to keep a formula like that in the bill. So, if the inspector expects there to be a danger that the supervised entity will resist or be any kind of problem, he has the right to ask the police and the municipal police for help. I think it's much better than waiting for the damage to be done, so it's only then that it works. I believe that just by accepting this amendment, it would be harmful to preventative action, and therefore I do not think that it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25841	Thank you. Professor Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25842	Thank you. I just can't recognize that there's still talk here about the amendment in which we asked for deadline cuts. So the discussion went in one completely different direction. We were looking for a more effective inspection, more efficient inspection bodies, and therefore we asked for deadline cuts, and that was the basic objective of our amendment. There was now a discussion here about something that had nothing to do with our basic thesis that we were looking for a more effective inspection. We believe that this law would be much more acceptable and bring about some shifts, although it would still be bad, if these amendments had been accepted. If you don't want to accept the amendment for some, I don't know what reasons, these reasons that are mentioned really can't be a criterion that we're wrong. I think we've made a quality amendment and you should have considered that. By the way, I would like to thank Mr Marinkovic for his commendation for our deputy group head, Mr Đurisic. That's the same head of the parliamentary group who was severely punished last week by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25843	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25844	It's very short for clarification. So it's an amendment to Article 5(4) you're talking about, but we're also talking about attitude 7, which says that "expects" are changing "resistance", so we're talking about the same amendment, just different attitudes. You're talking about attitude 5, and we're talking about your amendment and your position number 7.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25845	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 5th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25846	We find this amendment very important. Namely, in the administrative procedure leading the inspection by means of an administrative act in the form of a solution when it is decided on a fact, so solutions are imposed, prohibited or established, and not confirmed. Confirmation shall be carried out in the form of confirmation or assurance. The requirements of supervised entities to confirm the legality and security of conduct in the exercise of a specific right or in the exercise of a specific obligation, or in its conduct, cannot be ended by solutions for at least two reasons. The first is - every solution must be given the right to appeal, and if it is not given, in our opinion, it is questionable by the constitution guaranteed the right of two-stageness. The second is the procedure under the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, in the event that the supervised entity fulfils the obligation, it ends with the suspension of the procedure, and the suspension is not carried out by means of a solution, but the conclusion and solution shall be quantifiable, i.e. material-legislative, and the conclusion shall be procedurally-legislative. If such a solution set out in the draft law is accepted, the SNP considers that the proceedings against the supervised entity could be opened in a sudden manner, as this solution could attack any third party who has an interest and whose law allows it to do so, that it has the property of the party and has the right to conduct a administrative dispute behind the appeal. We therefore believe that, in this case, it is necessary to avoid confusion in any way and to open up space for various types of abuses in an already complex area, and the SNP believes that this should be resolved. With our amendment proposal, and we suggest you reconsider it and, preferably, adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25847	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment to be an integral part of the bill. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25848	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, this is for the sake of the citizens, just to inform them what this is all about. We have submitted an amendment to Article 8, where we are following Article 3, otherwise the amendment deals with the monitoring of the situation, the risk assessment, the planning, the coordination and coordination of inspection supervision, where it says: "on the basis of the identified situation and the risk assessment, the inspection prepares an inspection plan, initiates the adoption of amendments and additions of laws and other regulations, balances and publishes inspection practice, takes preventive action and proposes to the state authorities of the administration, the authorities of the Autonomous Region and the units of local self-government and other public authorities to take the activities and measures to which they are authorised". We have suggested that a new position be added, which says that the authorities of Article 3 are obliged to cooperate with the inspection in the monitoring procedures. I think it's worth it, that there's also an obligation to collect these data from the state administration, the autonomous province and the local self-government units, to cooperate with the inspection authorities. We further suggested that in the following position, which says that the inspection can publish on its website a list of supervised entities, to be exclusive, and that when it is said to publish on its websites a list of supervised entities, based on data obtained from control lists, it finds that they have achieved the highest degree of compliance of operations and dealings with the law and other regulations, they are those who comply with the law and who respect it properly, but we have suggested that a sentence be added: "as well as a list of supervised entities which are found not to have any compliance with their business and dealings with the law and other regulations". We believe that this is meaningful, especially because of the increase in legal certainty and business security, as data on entities with which they can possibly come into a business relationship is available to third parties. I thank you for your understanding and acceptance of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25849	I thank you, Dr. Bradic. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25850	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has been accepted, I thank you for that, but to remind only my colleagues that the risk assessment is precisely the backbone of modern inspection, that the risk assessment and finally the introduction of risk management into the state administration, and that is what you are doing in parallel with the rationalization of the state administration, with the introduction of payment classes and everything that follows in the next period is something that is in favour of making our state administration and public sector a cheap administration, effective and effective administration, which will now be working towards the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but I repeat, and businesses and businesses in our country. This will make the inspection more productive, be better, be more efficient, not as in the previous period, that the inspection goes several times a year in the control of non-risk operators, and that those who are very risky do not go away for a year and some longer period of time. So the formation of the base, the risk assessment itself, the risk analysis process, the information system, which is the key point in the next application of this law, will help us to have one more effective and better state administration, especially the inspection control that will be focused precisely on those that it has not affected, which will not be affected by any prevention and that violate laws or, worse still, on those in the field of the gray or black economy, which represents the cancer of our economy and our entire society. I think through these legal solutions, your knowledge and commitment, we're going to manage to deal with this big problem in one big percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25851	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. On the 10th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25852	Dear Chairman, Article 10 refers to the inspection plan. We have submitted an amendment in the first sentence: "unless there are particularly justified exceptional circumstances in which it is prevented" are deleted. The whole position is as follows: ‘The inspection plan shall be based on a defined state in the area of inspection and risk assessment. The inspection is required to carry out the inspection plan, except where there are particularly justified exceptional circumstances preventing it." We suggest we delete it. In Article 2, which says that the inspection is required to form a strategic multi-annual and annual inspection plan, we propose that the word "many-yearly" be replaced and clearly limited to five years old. In paragraph 6, we propose to delete the point at the end of the sentence and add the words "at the latest by 31 December of the current year for the following year". Article 6 states: “Inspection shall publish an inspection plan on its website” and we consider it reasonable to determine how long it is necessary to do so. After Article 8, we propose to add the 9th, 10th and 11 positions, which reads: "The strategic plan specifically contains strategic objectives that should be achieved through the realisation of the strategic plan, competences in the realisation of strategic objectives, activities for the realisation of objectives and indicators of the achievement of objectives. The strategic plan may also contain other elements prescribed by the minister responsible for the relevant area of inspection supervision, i.e. the public authority holder carrying out inspection controls in a particular area." The following point is added: “The strategic inspection plan shall be carried out through the annual inspection plan. “ And the last bet: “The strategic inspection plan is published on the inspection website. ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25853	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25854	It's a language formulation, we think it's important, as I've already pointed out before, that the terms we use in the law are precise to avoid different interpretations. It is, of course, that as DS MPs, we support the idea that this law and the regulation of inspection supervision in general reduces overlapping, i.e. by matching how we suggest that jurisdiction be given between different inspection bodies so that just the business people who have the most contact with inspection bodies can work more easily and so that they can predict the functioning of inspections in their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25855	Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Gordan Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradic. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25856	With this amendment, we actually wanted to strengthen the work of the Coordination Commission, which, without such more significant powers, has a very insignificant role. The co-ordination committee should, in our opinion, ensure better coordination between thirty and some of the inspections that exist in Serbia whose competencies are very often consistent and what is worst there are areas that are not covered by inspection supervision at all. We wanted this Coordination Commission to solve and eradicate the problem. That is why we have proposed that she already has the law defined who runs the commission, that she has her chairperson, i.e. the Vice-President and Secretary of the Co-ordination Commission. It's just amazing that you leave this kind of matter to sublegals. You give this law meaning, or you form one such body, or commission, and you do not even predict that there is a president or vice president or someone who will keep records and call meetings, or prepare meetings. That's extremely unserious. So you leave it to sublegals. That's not good because you're supposed to lay the foundations for coordinating the work of inspection services with this law. In addition, we believe that this Coordination Commission does not have some very significant competence to contribute to greater visibility of inspections, greater transparency and most importantly their greater impact, more visible results that are now very low. For this reason, we have suggested that this commission also has the authority to collect data from competent inspections and analyse the preparation of laws in certain areas and give binding instructions to inspections in order to implement the law. In addition, we predicted that it would be formed and published on the official website, united information about all inspections in the state, province and local self-government, with their responsibilities, addresses, phones, e-mail addresses, as well as their managers. Last time I spoke in the debate in principle, I said that no one living in Serbia knows what inspections exist, what their powers are, where their seats are, from when to when they work, who the executives are, because they're not published anywhere. In a town like Novi Sad and Belgrade you have a dozen 15, 20 places of inspection. You can't get to them. An ordinary citizen feels lost in that forest inspection without clear jurisdiction. That's why we thought this coordination was supposed to be a sort of location of all information. I don't know why you rejected this amendment. What would be the cost of the state, or what would benefit the state, if such information existed and that such competencies existed for this commission. This is how you left one floating commission, a coordination committee that won't actually have any serious jurisdiction, nor will it have the opportunity to influence the work of other inspections and control their work. We have foreseen our amendments that this Co-ordination Commission regularly submits reports to the Government and the Parliamentary Committee so that the Assembly has first and foremost insight into law enforcement. Once again, the jurisdiction of the inspection is law enforcement. The inspection depends whether the laws are applied or not. When the Assembly adopts the laws of inspection, they are the ones who oversee whether or not they are applied. In this way and with this law, you will not fix anything, and that is why we are very unhappy that you did not have the slightest understanding to accept some of our key amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25857	Thank you. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Dejan Nikoilić, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Ćirić. The word is Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25858	The chairman, it is also a language formulation that seems better with our amendment. What is indisputable is that there is a need for coordination in the work of inspection services, however, what we also do not support, which we pointed out in the principle debate, is that sublaws have left too many issues and issues to regulate. What is also important to point out is that there are no legal criteria for selecting members of the Co-ordination Commission, which means that political criteria and political membership are likely to be decisive for membership in this commission. What also remains undefined and we think it has been failed to establish this law, which is what will happen if the Coordination Commission determines the opposite, or does not coordinate the functioning of some inspections. In this case, the Coordination Commission has absolutely no jurisdiction other than to publish views, but therefore there is no way, no mechanism to establish a more coherent operation of inspections. In fact, all of this needs to be determined, done in some law enforcement procedure, but there is no concrete mechanism for achieving a coordinated operation of inspections, and this law does not exploit the possibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25859	Thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25860	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers with the team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have just submitted this amendment because we wanted to make sure that the Coordination Commission will be as strong as possible and that it will carry out its work as best as possible, so that by accepting this amendment, it will be authorised to request information, to request information, documents, reports that it needs to carry out its tasks from all competent state authorities starting from local to republican level. As for the election of staff in the co-ordination committee, I am convinced that also Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovici with her entire team who has come here to discuss with the peoples the right thing to do is to improve this legal solution, that it is one of the main objectives of reforming the state administration that is to introduce procedures in line with the highest standards of management, that is, human resources management. So that will cover work analysis and job design and recruiting and selection. The performance of management, what the Vice-President is already introducing and what we will have here, I think, at a plenary session under the Payments Law, so I am convinced that this co-ordination committee will do very well and effectively, although we were even in the process of forming a secretariat, but we also realized that the representatives of the ministry have convinced us that this would be a more expensive solution, a solution that would not lead to such efficiency of this commission, which would have had control just as my colleague Veseinovic said, at as much as 37 inspections, which would be united, which for the main goal would have to solve the problem of the gray economy, but also to influence the promotion of the economic environment and that businessmen could respect the laws, to know what the laws, what they are, and to all agree with that, as I would say, the highest standards of modern business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25861	Thank you. The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Cory Widowsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25862	I'd just like to say that the discussion on these amendments to article 12 has changed a little bit thesis on whether or not the intention of this law is to ensure the greatest possible coordination. It's not a subject. But the theme is whether the coordination mechanisms will all be largely formulated in law or in sublaws. The answer is, our assessment is that the law should lay down the most principles, as it has set out, and how exactly it will be operated we will regulate the sublaws, first of all because this is a new area, a new practice, and we will have to discover the way in some cases where it is best to produce results. We're going to do these sublegal acts, but we're going to be able to change them with greater flexibility and adapt to reality, because the goal of this government is to produce results, not to produce laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25863	Thank you. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25864	The Serbian People's Party considers it an extremely important prevention in this area, as it is always best for the state, for supervisory entities to respect the law. We've already talked about the order of the state, the respect of the law, for us is the beginning of every order. Respect for the law and its application have been avoided any possible damage, but the inconveniences that in itself arise from the inspection being required to apply measures to supervisory entities. With this, prevention must be made, as we are told in this article very important. We believe that, in the context of the preventive action, inspections should not be involved in giving advisory and expert opinions, supervisory entities and in issuing acts in the application of the rules as well as in official advisory visits. In our view, such a type of work can make room for corruption, and this is certainly the law that must be avoided and banned. In any case, an inspection shall apply the law, which is their basis for action, and any other issues concerning the council, opinion and official interpretation of the rules in the event of a default with the supervisory entity, should be part of the competent ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25865	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25866	As I said one of the 15 accepted amendments, seven or eight that deal with Serbian language, and this is part of our eternal struggle for the preservation of Serbian language and for respect and which is important in the legal norm of course. We also accept that this is a mistake that these expressions have passed, but I think it is very important to come to, that when we come to the final text of the law to be completely clean, we don't have a lot of things that we can keep and we can be proud of, and the language is one of them, and we have to watch it everywhere we can and expect it to be in one big administration that we agreed that the vice president of the government, I mean the general Serbian public, and all of us that the public administration of Serbia is a little too big in terms of needs if there are already a lot of people, let one "delevers yunni" be in charge of respect for the Serbian language and that no such mistakes happen to us again. Of course it doesn't diminish the value of the law, but we said that he's good, that he has some little flaws that we've tried to fix. I'm sure by adopting these 15 amendments he improved. It is certain that by adopting some more amendments, such as the amendment just before Mr. Veselinovic, whom I crossed over into Mr. Jovanovic, I now apologize, to make the laws even better. Just imagine what would be in Serbia and how much better it would be if another 20, 30% of those 1486 were accepted by Mr Pavicevic and I for the last year. It would certainly be laws and better conditions for both the economy and life.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25867	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Kasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25868	First of all, thank you, Mr. Zivkovic, for apologizing for crossing me. However, the chairman of my name is also a figure of speech in this economic cocussus that I don't know what it's like or what it's like. So, I'm the only Janko in this assembly, but there's a name there, Janko, but with another last name. So I ask you to look at your papers and see who made some mistake here, so I have nothing to do with the economic coke. The amendment to Article 13(3) also goes towards the effectiveness of inspection bodies. We've had far less success than an economic cocuss in accepting the amendment, but I think we're a very meaningful amendment to Article 13, where we've asked that the inspection respond within 15 days to the request of a economic operator or any other entity for preventive supervision. Now it's left to the will of the inspection bodies. They can answer, and they can never answer. We wanted to avoid the silence of the administration becoming a rule or that the economic operator or any other legal or physical person who applied for preventive supervision would receive a response within 15 days. Will that watch be, when will it be or will it not be at all? I don't get it again, Madam Minister, which is why you didn't accept this amendment. Why didn't you accept? He's accepted, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25869	Mr Veseinovic, I read – the government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25870	I'm sorry, I didn't have that kind of information.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25871	Well, I've realized that this adjective has become an integral part of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25872	I'm sorry. I didn't get that information in writing, and I only overlooked what you said. In this regard, it is good that the Government has accepted our amendment at least in this part, because now the economic operators and everyone else will have the certainty to act on a request for preventive supervision and the team is now more illogical, which is why you have not accepted a similar amendment regarding deadlines for the conduct of state authorities in a similar way. I don't get it. You've been running by two criteria. You said you were waiting for June and then you'd do a review. I understand, the administrative procedure, by which you will practically determine a more efficient state administration. Here you have accepted, and there in that article where we have also asked for the same reduction, or definition of deadlines, you have not done so. Anyway, I thank you for this accepted amendment. Otherwise, of our 32 amendments, you have accepted five amendments, according to us too little for this law to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25873	Thank you, Professor. I'm glad to see you. You had the government's opinion, and it was divided into all the MPs. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25874	I'd just like to say that it's absolutely not the same as what's been asked here and what's been asked for, I think it was the amendments of Article 5. Here is a welcome supplement in which it is actually emphasized that the inspection must respond and a deadline of the same kind as the deadline you tried to change in Article 5. In Article 5, you have tried to discuss how to get a faster answer, or to avoid the silence of the administration, which is one complex issue that we are going to solve with one of the most general and fundamental laws, which is the Law on General Administrative Procedure and which is not the place in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25875	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažja Bradić. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25876	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we have submitted an amendment to Article 14 which deals with the checklist. In the first position of the Proposer, i.e. The government has made the inspection responsible for drawing up control lists from its area of inspection, publishing them on its website and applying them to the regular inspection procedure. We have here suggested that after the word "publish them", no later than 31 December of the current year for the following year. We have provided an explanation that Article 14(1) does not contain a time limit until which the checklists must be published, and Article 59 establishes the criminal liability of the inspection officer in the case of non-disclosure of the checklists. If the time limit is not established, neither shall liability be established. You refused to give us an amendment, this part of the amendment, stating that Article 63 of the bill lays down a deadline within which there is a obligation to publish control lists on the website. I remind you that a member of 63 is in the head of the transitional and final provisions and refers to the inspection obligation for the first publication of the checklists. Namely, Article 63. The bill says, quote - inspection will form control lists and publish them on its website within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. We further suggested that item 6 be added after item 5. In order to make it more clear to colleagues what we are talking about, point 5 says – The supervised entity may provide an inspection report on self-checking of compliance with the requirements of the checklist and self-assessment of the risk carried out in accordance with the content of the checklist and the risk assessment rules. In addition to this report, the supervised entity shall also provide the inspection with appropriate documentation, i.e. other matter, photographs, etc., to which the findings of the report are supported. We propose to add a new position that says – The report on self-check does not replace or exclude the conduct of the inspector within the meaning of Article 2, and Article 2 says that the inspector, acting within the limits of the inspection supervision under the inspection order, takes those checks and other actions contained in the checklist. As a result, we think it is reasonable that this position we have added, item 6, because it decidedly speaks of that, and if self-check is carried out, it does not exclude the possibility of the inspector to carry out the verification of the given economic operator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25877	I thank Dr. Bradic. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. It's a word I've got. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Becicu, respected Mrs Udovic, and honored guests and guests from the ministry, the amendment to Article 14 that we have submitted to Zoran Zivkovic and I am one of the 22 amendments that we have submitted to this bill and I must say here with one great pleasure - one of the 15 amendments that have been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by the committees that have pleaded. I have one more thing to say here, it's one of the 50 amendments that are total during this year, from 16 April of last year, to 15 April of this year, which are today accepted in this National Assembly, I think respected gentlemen that it is worth it and congratulations, perhaps even applause, but I see that Mr. Babic today is not holding that table "applaus", there is no Prime Minister here, but I think it's okay for the opposition to be congratulated on extraordinary work. To us, here is Mrs. Vukomanović, thank you, dear gentlemen, not a single letter, not a single letter, and I am surprised, for example, that Mr. Marinkovic just before or Mr. Babic or Mr. Neđo Jovanovic say - the unideal opposition. How, dear gentlemen, the hopeless opposition? Fifty accepted amendments. Zoran Zivkovic and I only put the signatures on four draft laws. I've spoken here over the past year more than Mr. Babic has spoken. How's the senseless opposition, gentlemen? We have an idea, we give meaning to these discussions in our National Assembly, and we are doing everything in our power, respected Members of the People's Parliament, to make the laws adopted by our legislative body fair and best possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25879	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the head of the SNS group's MP, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25880	I thank you for the possibility of a replica because I think these accepted amendments are the victory of parliamentaryism, the victory of a normal democratic communication. The communications that the Government of the Republic of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, that this is something that awaits applause in a normal and democratic world, that this is also a victory for us who have criticised white papers, white papers that have once been promoted in elections, white papers that have also been brought to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by simply proposing "expunging". This is the victory of all of us who have said – there is no creativity in being "expunged" from the first to the last member of any proposed law, and I will always accept and always consider the meaningful amendments that MPs or groups of MPs submit. I don't think she's marked and isn't a symbol this year of 50 accepted amendments or I don't know how many proposed amendments. This year's symbol is more than 250 laws adopted by this National Assembly on a proposal by the MPs or on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that these are reform laws that improve our society, and if we look at those 250 laws as an average of 40 members, we have adopted somewhere more than 10,000 members. So, everything Mr Pavicevic represents as a victory means only the work of every MP, for which we are sent to this National Assembly by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for which we are ultimately Mr Pavicevic and paid to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25881	The word has a People's MP, Neđo Jovanovic Since you have deliberately challenged several replicas, mentioned several last names of MPs, you expect first that they will get the opportunity to answer you so that you can then enter the second round of replicas, Mr Pavicevic. [[Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: A replica?]] (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: All right. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25882	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, the SNS parliamentary group, and therefore I, as part of the SPS parliamentary group, have never referred a single and rough word to the opposition, nor to MP Vladimir Pavicevic. On the contrary, we expect the opposition not to be without an idea, but to be completely constructive, to overcome its stereotypes that are attached to amendments that are at least or least slightly unsuspecting in terms of being "expected" and to step in the direction of something that implies the quality of the debate, and through this quality of discussion to get quality laws. In this direction, the SPS parliamentary group really supports the efforts and colleagues of Pavicevic, including the opposition, to contribute to parliament's work, which so far, frankly, has not always been done, but we are confident that, since everything is evolving, it is also evolving their approach to work, that they will in any case have the opportunity to prove their constructive and future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25883	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Honorable Vice President Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Udovici, honored guests and guests from the ministry, my expectation was that both Mr. Babic and Mr. Neđo Jovanovic, but also the president of the Economic Cocus Vladimir Marinkovic would say here – bravo for such work, not to defend himself from what. Dear gentlemen, our amendments to this bill, for example. Amendment to Article 14, they've always grouped about five key things. One thing is respect for the rules and grammar of Serbian language and spelling, gentlemen. The second thing, a greater urgency in the application of the law, by accepting this amendment, is going towards it, towards greater efficiency in the second position. Third thing, we're here fighting for a stricter criminal policy and our amendments are always filled with that kind of content. The fourth thing, we're always looking, when we see that there's no such thing, the faster the start of effective law enforcement, and of course, the fifth thing is always the most precise definition of what exists in the law. Dear gentlemen, it is resented here because sometimes MP Zoran Zivkovic and I also submit some of the amendments that read - is deleted. We must try to implement those draft laws that are no good in our court or, to remind the respected Mr. and Babić and Ned Jovanovic and Vladimir Marinkovic, so the governor of the National Bank of Jorgvanka Tabakovic, when she was here for a debate, accepted the two amendments submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, which reads, are deleted. Well, it's possible to accept such amendments, gentlemen. The only thing I'm concluding for this year is the summation of our work together, the opposition in the Assembly is more successful than this majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25885	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Before I give my word to Mr Babic and close the circle of replicas, it is clearly stated by your colleagues, that all amendments that are not and do not bear a name – are deleted, all amendments from the legislator will be considered and adopted preferably. The debate is only in that direction. You said one thing, which I don't think is close to the truth, a large number of amendments were with a sign – deleted. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25886	I thank you, Mr. Becic. I think I will propose to both my friend and the Prime Minister and the president of the SNS that the amendment's proposer accept the job of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a lecturer. I think that job would work very well. I think it would be a mass of amendments in which such a text corresponds to ours and grammar and Serbian, to be excellent at that job. I believe that the amendment promoter, after qualified for such a lecturing post, will also be able to teach the texts of the proposed laws in the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the future, that we in the National Assembly are still dealing with some more serious matters such as the proposed laws and all that these proposed laws adopt. I'll correct my friend, Mr. Jovanovic. We in the National Assembly have no opposition. How can you, Mr. Jovanovic, call the opposition someone who exercises power in Vojvodina and how he exercises power, raping democracy with an incomplete 6% support? That's why all these success or failure measures, which, like a groggy boxer, who's lost the match, whose coach is already putting that white towel in the ring, and he says, I'm better than him, so it seems to me that when someone here says we're more successful than most, than most who's passed more than 250 laws, most of them who have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they're free of what the grog-boxer already in the thick nokdawn himself is brave enough to stand still, free when citizens of the Republic of Serbia give their commitment and their support in the elections, and those who are brave are about to support citizens at the level of statistical error.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25887	Thank you. We'll go over it again after the debate. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25888	Thank you. So, a very nice example of co-operation between different political entities in our society. Someone has expressed the expectation of this kind of work being said – bravo for such work. That's exactly what I'm saying, for all the involved actors who have led to something that is good, useful, common and adopted. That's the kind of approach we in SNS have actually been calling for a very long time. I just remind you of that fact. It's nice when we get there, and it's a good contrast to what was called a non-ideal on several occasions, and that certainly means a lot of reporting that makes it seem that way, in order to record a number of reportings, and then to highlight it as a personal success. We all know very well that it's not that, it's not the essence of repeating without any message in hundreds of copies. The essence is something else, in those words that are being used, nor in the number of amendments, Mr. Chairman. So, 1,400 amendments, of which 1350 don't deserve to be adopted because it contains nothing of quality, not even a piece of praise, such as those laws we mentioned, some four laws that came as a proposal. But don't let that be a message, let's get back to this good result. He's good, he's something we need, something that we want to happen as often as possible, although it still doesn't have to be the reason for pretentious conclusions. So, the amendment promoter when he says he doesn't get away with a single letter, he can look at the explanation of his amendments just for this session today and he'll find at least two letters that escaped in their explanations, and even I think we've changed three amendments just for reasons of inaccuracy and grammatical fals. The promoters themselves changed them when they saw it. With that in mind, we have to replicate in a certain way my colleague Babic. I still wouldn't agree with that job offer. I think it still deserves to be more serious than, as far as I can tell, it can be offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25889	Thank you. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 15th amendment. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25890	Thank you. Article 15 deals with the collection of data of importance for the exercise of inspection supervision of certain entities and in order not to take up much of the time, paragraph 2 states: “The inspector shall provide, under official duty, public documents and records, i.e. registers kept by the competent state authorities, the authorities of the Autonomous Region and the bodies of the units of local self-government and other public authorities, which are necessary for inspection supervision. These authorities and other public authorities are obliged to provide the inspection with these public documents and data on a timely basis. “ We suggest that the word “good times ” be replaced by the words:“ At her request, but within five days of the day of receiving. ” We think it's appropriate to limit the time to provide that information. You, Madam Minister, and the Government have responded that the amendment is rejected since the provision provides a timely opportunity for the inspector to set an appropriate deadline for the delivery of the requested data by other authorities, taking into account the diversity of situations, complexity and urgency of treatment. We consider it exactly the opposite. First, we have determined that these authorities, at the request of the inspection, supply the requested information, which is not visible from the bill. Secondly, is a five-day deadline in your opinion inappropriate for the delivery of the data they have? I note that this is about public documents and data from public registers run by competent authorities, the authorities of the Autonomous province and local self-government, and therefore we believe that a five-day period is quite sufficient for inspection of these data to be delivered, and I ask you to reconsider accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25891	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25892	Thank you. I use the time of the mandated representatives of the DS parliamentary group, saying in favour of the amendment submitted by colleagues Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korac, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradic. The good reason for accepting this amendment is precisely in the fact that the inspector should obtain under the official duty of public documents and records, i.e. registers run by competent state authorities, autonomous province authorities, local self-government authorities and other public authorities necessary for inspection supervision. Which one of these is not enough five days to deliver? If any of them are not enough for five days, then we have a problem for another inspector with them. If it takes them five days to get the records, that means either one of them has no records or won't deliver them, which is the topic for anyone else who's talking about bad administration. If the argument is that it is timely to imply that the inspector decides how many days it takes these public authorities, only then does the explanation not stand. In particular, there is no argument if we follow a good idea and a good argument in defending the proposal of this law, which is that we have an effective inspection service, that we have a measurable result of every inspection, that we have everything on our hands, that we have it centralised and now, from once here, you think that five days or little or already what it is for those who, as public authorities, have data from the records. I think that we should think about it one more time and accept the amendments that our colleagues have made, because we indirectly refer the message to those who need to cooperate with the inspectors, which is that they cannot agree with the inspectors on what is timely and have an obligation to do their job. The tendency of many of these institutions is to worship a sentence – it is not my job. It is a sentence which I published a war a few years ago, and that is a sentence which, both the citizen and the inspector, can "walk" from the source to the source needed by him, as a record or a register kept by the competent state authority. Even if, for any reason, the representatives of the ministry believe that five days from the day of the entry of the request is too short a deadline for those mentioned above, it is much greater to let any of those state authorities talk and negotiate with the Minister about what is timely. Another problem with empowering the inspector to determine what a timely delivery of public documents and data is that you can have a situation where the same, conditionally speaking, one of the same state authorities in a different place gets from the inspectors that it's time to do so in five days, and the same one in another place gets in second place that it's 12 days or 15. Unnecessarily. You cannot leave time to the inspector, it is better to determine that it is five days from the day of admission, as it is, and with the hope that Serbia will be more soon than many hope, hating the EU's e-government and efficiency, when it comes to e-Government, therefore, hoping that there will be e-Government, only then is it unnecessary to talk about timelyity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25893	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25894	I thank you, Chairman. The interpretation of the amendment would make sense and it could be accepted that in the practical part, in some sense of life words, it is not quite so. It is simple facts and simple from the practice that I am directly, by the nature of my work, directed to. It seems to me that this amendment could be accepted if there were ideal conditions and ideal opportunities, and ideal ones mean that all records are and indeed there is a possibility of very urgent data delivery from the relevant records. Unfortunately, that doesn't exist with us. A simple and simple example, is not very competitive for this situation, is a fact that connects to the service, to a cataster of immovableity when you apply for the history of catastrian plots, so you wait two months, and you have a centralized database and you have electronic access to the database and you still don't get what you need. In a particular situation, it is necessary to leave the inspector with discretion or discretion to provide the requested information from the case to the case, as a mandatory time limit, so it is an imperative standard, in which the competent authority in its records will provide the requested information, whether it is a public document or data of another character, of another nature. That deadline could be about two days, it could be 24 hours. It may be five days, but it could be 15 days. I cannot agree that this creates unequal practice, because here the situations are ad hoc from case to case, depending on who the data is asked for and what assessment is expected for feedback to be delivered. Today, unfortunately, we are not yet at that level that we can ignore this discretionary authority of the inspector, or, rather, limit him in what he has to act in the way he has to act. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25895	The word has a minister named Mrs. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25896	I'd just like to draw attention here if there's no reason for us to think that the deadline here is timely longer than five days. On the contrary, the action plan for the implementation of this law provides for the establishment of an information system, etc. An e-inspector who, in the next period, so to speak, will feed data, connect to databases, and over time we expect that absolutely gro information, which must be exchanged in order for inspections to be well prepared, will be available at the push of the button. In this process, we will occasionally encounter new angles, themes, problems that will require more time to feed the database, to establish the system, to move on. So here the term five, two or ten days is simply not appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25897	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25898	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I find the government's proposal quite meaningful, but this amendment seems inappropriate and doesn't seem meaningful to me. For what? The deadline of 15 days, in my opinion, is not adequate, the premise is not adequate, because the word “mild time” gives the inspector the opportunity to set an appropriate time limit, because the word “mild time” means, in my opinion, appropriate, or useful. Therefore, it will give a useful time-limit and an appropriate time-limit to supply the requested information by other authorities, but firstly bearing in mind three categories: 1) the complexity of conduct, 2) the urgency of conduct and 3) the diversity of conduct. So we can't compare it to the members at first. Here the word “good times” is extremely, not to say, decoded, and it means appropriate, or useful. I think the government's argument, and especially after the reasons of Mr. Minister and Mr. Jovanovic... There is no point in applying this amendment, but in supporting the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25899	The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25900	I would just like to fill in an explanation why the Government has not accepted this amendment, which is that this law belongs to the laws of the middle level at all. What I'm saying is that the inspectors we think have discretionary rights essentially don't have to set deadlines, but their work has been determined by some other deadlines of other institutions. What does that mean? The first level of law that inspectors must comply with is the Administrative Procedure Act. The administrative procedure already has some deadlines to be respected. That's one. Two, here comes the middle-level law, that's this law we're talking about. So, when the inspector gets some information from other authorities, he does, for example, when he makes an insight or contact with certain "nn" persons, he does not have the right to legislate, he works under certain legal rules, such as the Law on Community Works, he has to call other authorities, whether it's the police or the municipal police, to identify the person, whether a natural person or a legal representative, in order to know who he's raising against, means he opens an administrative procedure. That information he needs to get from the police. So those deadlines are already defined somewhere. That is why this article discusses the timing of the delivery of information. The third part, i.e. the level of law that the inspector must respect, is specific laws relating to sectoral activity, i.e. sectoral laws. Therefore, if the inspector is determined by examples of five days or 15 days, he will not be able to respect it in most cases. That's why it's a good thing we're introducing information technologies. It is good that in the end, it will be networked to these information technologies and this general level of law and sectoral, so that since inspection inspectors are located somewhere in the middle, eventually they will become an integral part of this e-inspector, who will then be able to, not temporarily, but immediately give timely information and that this member, or that deadline, you say, and less than five days, will be able to implement it. But at this point, he is unable to implement it at all, so the formulation that the Government has given and which is given to this Article 15 in the integrated version of the law is fully acceptable in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25901	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25902	Thank you. I'm using the time of authorized representatives of the parliamentary group. We have a deep misunderstanding in defense and conflicting arguments here about one simple thing. It may be easier to read, to have an argument then, not to guarantee: “The public authorities are obliged to provide the inspection with timely delivery. ” Public authorities, local self-government, state authority, autonomous province, a unit body, they are required to deliver the inspection in good time, not the inspection. If we have an argument that there is no way that you get anything less than two months from the catastra, then we have an argument – this will be less than five days, and it may be quick on the button – well, make up your mind, it can't be both. You can't say that you won't be able to force a catastra for two months and there'll be an e-inspector. I have to caricate a little, because I listen very carefully to what we share as an argument, and I consider the amendment extremely important. Because you are not making a commitment to the inspector and to the inspection, but to the state authority, to local self-government, to the authority of the autonomous province, to the holder of public authority. You indirectly agree with me on such an amendment that it is necessary to delete from communication in this country a sentence – it is not my job. I can't imagine if anyone other than the catastra would think it was a timely two months and if someone, like the police, would think it was a timely six-month term, or if someone thought it was a two-day time frame. A relationship with the powers of inspectors in other laws has nothing to do with this law. You speak here to the public authorities and you appeal to their consciousness to do the job in good time, where we all know what kind of problem we have with public authorities. The colleagues said: put them for five days. Can't a cadastre in five days, with a central register, do, can't a local self-government deliver in five days' records, can't a public authority holder for five days to deliver the data from the records? I told you at the beginning of my support for the amendment that we here have a much bigger problem than an unsettled inspection service system. You're talking here with this amendment about the ratio of the inspection and the holder of public authority, of which his work depends and you say – we'll make a great inspection, but let them decide for themselves what it is on time. If you don't put it here for five days, the cadastre will never shorten two months. If you don't put on five days, everyone will be late, it's a tendency of the administration, it's got nothing to do with Serbia, that the Deputy Prime Minister knows much, much better than I do. Put a deadline on them. With that deadline they not only respect the work of inspectors, they respect us, citizens. Because what this is, here in the second room, is the submission of the report by the citizens of Sasa Jankovic's Protectors, most of all looking at the poor administration in Serbia, which the citizens are most complaining about, is that through the break of all possible deadlines, the administration actually says - I don't care. And you say to them here: "Let time be easy for you." Please don't. There, that's why I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25903	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25904	I thank the chairman. I will once again express my sincerest position that I fully support the meaning of the argument given by the distinguished Mrs. Comic. But I'm allowing myself and I'm giving myself the freedom to know and recognize in practice much more than what's being done out of that sense as some conclusion, which is that even if we put an imperial deadline of five days, that in certain situations it won't mean much, it won't do much to improve everything that we've been talking about here today. In addition, public authority holders who are being called here by those who have explained, specifically Mrs. Komic, their data from the records draws out of the data register exactly the institutions we are talking about, both from the cadastra and from some other institutions. We're here in one vicious circle of getting data, we-we didn't want to. That is why the SPS parliamentary group supports the minister's position, Mrs Udovici, who said – until the system is settled, until it is raised to a level that implies a very fast exchange of data by electronic means. Only then can we talk about what the meaning of this amendment means. We're not at that level right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25905	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25906	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So now I'm really in a big dilemma. On the one hand, I listen, this is the second day that this law is passed to make the inspections more effective, so that there is co-operation between inspections, so that there is no duplication of work, how it should be first on the one hand, very effective work, to protect the interests of the state and respect the law, and on the other hand that those who are controlled are not bullied, that they are not taken away from work, that they do not waste time, etc. Now, when we have asked, and I will remind you, that the inspector is supplying under the official duty of public documents and records, i.e. registers run by competent state authorities, AP authorities, local self-government authorities and other public authorities necessary for inspection supervision. These authorities and public authorities are obliged to provide the inspection with these public documents and data on a timely basis, where we say that those who need to deliver the data have a five-day deadline. So that's the data that's in their records. It's their job. We say, "We will apply the law in some ways, and we will not. Now they can weigh, but if we want to be efficient, if the inspector doesn't have that information he's asking the public authority holder, how will he be effective? How is inspection supervision going to last for three days or five days, 15 days? So who's gonna pay for that damage? Let's define ourselves. Are we going to be an efficient administration, or are we not going to be an efficient administration? Well, we can't by one law. You say - it rules out the law. Well, if we apply other laws relating to this matter, then half the members are surpluses in this law. Well, it can't be a moment, we won't. We are proposing something that is meaningful and that should force those who should give information to be up-to-date, because only in the country of Serbia if you threaten him with punishment will be respected, and you say – there is no problem. Okay, we're saying that there's another way of thinking and another way we suggest that we get rid of this matter and we think that we're right, and I ask you to think again about supporting this amendment in the voting day, because it's meaningful and it's going to be effective in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25907	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25908	In short, Mr. Chairman, just in case someone misses to see the opportunity to achieve this efficiency through such a formulation, as suggested in the original text. I think I'm seeing her and I'm just trying to be helpful in this case. There's an explanation, which we got from the government, that shows a logic that can be accessed when such a choice of terms is being made. It is viewed as being able to define by inspection what is the appropriate deadline. Now you see, can this be a contribution to efficiency? Well, of course he can. Let's imagine the script. Instead of giving a fixed deadline of 15, as in one proposal, or five days, as in the second, the inspector concludes that he needs something within two days. With this formulation, he can require it within two days. Would that be more effective in that case than is proposed by this amendment? I would. So, just if we imagine the appropriate scenarios, if we're able to look at all possible situations, I don't think it's hard to find that efficiency that we're looking for in this proposal. That's why I'm certainly not against the original text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25909	Thank you. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25910	We don't understand each other. I'm really sorry, I'm a little more often on this amendment, but we still don't understand each other. So, it doesn't determine the inspector's deadline, we're setting it now. We say, "It will be five days, or it will be a good time." The inspector's just looking for information. Read the attitude. He says – the inspector obtains according to the official duty of public documents and records data, and the last sentence – these authorities, where he provides these data, and other public authorities are obliged to provide the inspection with these public documents and data on a timely basis. It doesn't say anywhere that the inspector here determines timeliness and how long it's due. He's just looking, and we're here to say what time these guys are obliged to give him that information, otherwise the inspection surveillance will stretch, not by his fault, invariably depending on the owner of public authority. Well, we're a legislative body, and we can say what time they need to give, and I think it's in the spirit of a more efficient work of inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25911	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word is Mrs. Udovicki, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25912	If I may say that the law, first of all, regulates the efficiency of the work of the inspection, one key link in the chain of functioning of the entire administration. This law will not solve the recognised, recognized, ineffectiveness of the administration as such. We're working on a whole series of measures, they're reflected in the action plan. In this case, we gave the possibility of inspections, as Ambassador Orlic said, to seek shorter deadlines. We predict that very often and over time, more and more will actually be electronic data exchanges, and the replacement of thesis is taking us nowhere. This law as no other law alone, one law will not solve the problem of an inefficient administration that we inherited and which has not been done effectively in the previous 15 years. We're working on it. Meet the action plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25913	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25914	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, so as not to remain unspeakable, the inspector may request documents, but in many cases he does not get a guaranteed deadline. It's simply not him who decides the terms. We can, as a Legislative Committee, order him in five days, in 15 days, but it simply won't happen, and then all the blame for not obtaining those documents goes to whoever has been given jurisdiction by the Legislative Committee to do so, which is an inspection. Here are the examples you've heard. Mr. Jovanovic listed a cadastre, and I will give you an example of the Republic Geodetic Institute. I'll give you an example of the police who simply can't carry out the identification of the offenders of a particular procedure and needs to identify and find out who it is that violates the law, for example, on communal activity and can't do it in a month, the case works. So, the moment that a certain organ really is able to give adequate information to the inspector, that's when they'll get it. That's what the cancer of our society's wounds is, in fact, government. Well, that's exactly what it's doing, to establish an information system, to establish greater efficiency, and at this point the timely formulation is really effective, much more so than that we would prescribe a certain number of days, and to come into a situation where such a law is being violated, especially by the inspectors to whom we should give the now-expanded possibilities to actually implement the law in the best possible way, not with the measures that have been so far, but with measures that will lead to us introducing and correcting all irregularities that have been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25915	Thank you. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25916	Just two sentences after the amendment. I absolutely don't accept your argument, you didn't convince me, especially in the part where you're talking about the cataster of immovableity. So wait, you said it was effective now and that building permits were given in 28 days. Well, how the class can now give, and when it's looking for an inspector who's a state authority, who has broad powers, who has a priority in the request, then he can't. I don't think that something fits into each other. I'm not happy with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25917	Thank you. Our 16th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25918	In Article 16(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: The bill behind the words: “When this requires reasons for preventing or eliminating the immediate danger to the life or health of people, we feel that we should add the words: “The rights and interests of employees and persons employed. “ We find it extremely important to prevent so - called black work. Not only do employees suffer from this type of work, for they are not paid contributions, but the state itself. The state should side with employees and their rights and provide them with health insurance and retirement training. In addition, it is unfair for all of those businesses that do a fair job, carry out their full commitment to the state. This is an opportunity to pass such a system law, to engage in inspections and powers that it will gain to suppress this harmful phenomenon. That is why the SNP has submitted this amendment, because I believe it is an extraordinary and complementary inspection supervision should be carried out even without a warrant when the rights and interests of employees and persons employed are at risk, and that is quite certain when they work on black and not reported, nor are their contributions being paid. Such occurrences may also be determined by direct observation of the inspector when entering the field. So I suggest you adopt this amendment that contributes to the fight, most of all, the fight against working on black, the involvement of the inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25919	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. On the 18th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25920	Article 18 refers to the initiation of the inspection procedure. We have proposed adding two positions 7 and 8 which read as follows: "the inspection procedure for the request of the national inspection entity, or the request of another person, which is a special law recognised as the party's property in the procedure, shall be initiated no later than 15 days from the date of receipt of the request. The following position – ‘The inspector is the store to hand the supervised entity, i.e. the person present, a warrant for inspection supervision’. We have also provided an explanation that the proposed amendment provides for a precise determination of the time limit for the initiation of the procedure at the request of the supervised entity, or at the request of another person. We believe that this issue should be regulated precisely, especially when it comes to the fact that a supervisory entity may require the initiation of a procedure in order to determine certain facts, i.e. that it may exercise certain rights. In addition, the amendment lays down the inspector's obligation to hand over the warrant. Regardless of what is provided for the procedure to begin when the inspector delivers the order, we believe that for the sake of legal certainty, there is a provision that explicitly determines this duty. The government rejected this amendment with the reason that it is a case, quoting: ‘the subject of the regulation of special laws, as well as because the provision of this law is already prescribed, that the inspector is giving the supervised entity, i.e. the person present, a warrant for inspection supervision’, etc. The reasons do not state what specific laws they are. Furthermore, the amendment provides for a time limit for the launch of this specific type of inspection supervision which differs from the exophy of the procedure, and therefore we believe that the amendment solution is necessary to apply in this Member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25921	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic to article 19. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, National MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25922	Thank you. So Article 20 refers to the rights and duties of the supervised entity. He says supervised entities have equal rights and obligations in inspection supervision, which includes the right to review equally in the same or significant similar situations to all supervised entities. The next position, where we have proposed an amendment, says – the supervised entity in the inspection procedure has the right to be familiar with the subject matter and the length of the procedure, the inspection order and other acts brought in the procedure, and we propose that after the word "to be familiar with the subject and the duration of the procedure, the inspection order and other acts brought into the process" they add the words "and that the order and the other act in the procedure be given to him. In view of the nature of inspection supervision and the fact that this procedure always affects one part of the right and freedom, we believe that it is necessary to explicitly indicate the right of the entity to have the order and other acts in the procedure served, because of this handover or not the handover depends on the further course of the procedure and the protection of the right in the case where the entity considers that they are injured and that it wants to initiate some procedure, and I believe that the Government, or the Assembly, should accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25923	Thank you. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25924	In Article 20(4), I believe that it is necessary to add "or the rights and interests of employees and persons employed". In earlier amendments, we have already said how important this law can be made in the fight against working on black. The position of employees today is certainly difficult and the state should be able to make at least paid contributions by its actions, to restore their dignity to at least the fact that their work has been reported, not entering the level of earnings that no one can satisfy. This very important amendment, because its adoption prevents the employer from hiding data from inspectors concerning employees. If a solution remains as proposed in the law, the supervised entity could deny the inspector information concerning, say, the fact that he has non-registered employees, because areas in which, especially according to the position of this member, cannot deny the provision of data do not cover the rights of employees. We think it is very important that this situation is avoided and that the employer cannot hide exactly that information, because they concern the existence of a large number of citizens, but also the abuse of the law. That is why we call on the Government to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25925	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Snezana Malović and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25926	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, Article 21 speaks of the powers of the inspectors to determine the facts and we have proposed that Article 5 be added to the position of 6 which reads - the inspector is obliged to take only those measures which are of a kind, scope and duration necessary and sufficient to achieve the objectives of inspection supervision and which do not impose excessive or unnecessary costs on the supervised entity as part of his powers. The proposed amendment is an additional precision of the scope of the inspector's powers, reducing the possibility of abuse and further protecting the rights of the supervised entity and ensuring a more regular and economical work of the inspection. The government has not accepted an amendment explaining that this is a question but, I quote: "as governed by Article 10. The State Administration Act, further, Article 6. ZUP and Article 25 of this Act." Following this government logic, at least half of the members of this bill should not exist. Even some of the provisions of Article 25 are also contained in the cited other laws, but the proposer leaves them in this proposal, and the amendment standard for the economy of the conduct of the inspection does not accept, and I ask the minister to reconsider accepting this amendment once more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25927	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has submitted an amendment to Article 22. I'm asking the Minister to plead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25928	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25929	Thank you. I find that the proposaler's representative has accepted the amendment. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25930	Thank you. I use the time of authorised representatives, so the time of the parliamentary group, if I use time for an authorised representative of the DS. I would like to welcome the decision of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, who took advantage of business authority, the authority to submit an amendment whose problem has been warned during the principle debate. This is the provision in the Rules of Procedure that has shown all its purpose in this application. It has been used and abused very often, when someone forgets something, but the decision of the Justice Committee to specify how an insight into the housing space could be done was necessary and I think it is a good decision and representatives of the Government to accept this amendment. In this regard, Article 22, which was disputed because of the lack of accurate insight by the inspectors and without the consent of the users or the owner of the living room, was disputed from the point of view of constitutional definitions, housing, human rights, and would have been disputed if it had remained in the text of the law as it is, therefore I am also talking about a good decision and a good approach both to the Committee and to the Government's representatives. Now, if the committee responsible is also to be declared, it will become an integral part, or the Assembly will vote for this amendment in the voting day, in order to determine the facts of the inspection, it will have to obtain a written order from the competent court if it intends to carry out an insight into the living space or other space which has the same, similar or connected purpose, in the text of the members of this law, “the living space”, unless it becomes known on request or with the express written consent of the owner or user, or the holder of the living space that can be given on the spot. The consent, whether on the holder or user of the living space, may also be oral, when it is necessary to take urgent measures to prevent or eliminate risks to the life or health of people, property of greater value, environment or plant and animal life, which is particularly explained in the minutes. The fact that in the original text of the bill whether there is an opportunity to see it, although it remains unclear how the inspector will do so for an insight, but well, therefore, there are sublegal acts and there is a monitoring of the same committee, possibly, therefore, the possibility that it existed, and now this good amendment has been removed, is that the insight is carried out in the residential space and without the consent of the owner and without the decision of the court only if the owner or the user does not object clearly to the inspection in their living space, which is a very slippery provision, because it would mean that we are all immaculately informed of our rights and that those who guarantee our rights are protected through the law that they are really keeping us informed, which is not the case in reality. I therefore consider this amendment a good law intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25931	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25932	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would fully support what the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did through this intervention, but I would like to appeal to you, Minister, that at the level of the Government, there is something else that is now mandatory. If we have already defined in a completely different way access to this problem that is related to entering the residential space and bringing the court into such a problem, then it is logical that through such a procedural norm we have to amend some other laws, because here the jurisdiction of the court is being established. As soon as the court gives the order, he decides. The order is a kind of decision, such as a solution and a verdict. If the court gives the order, it must be systematised through the jurisdiction of the court, and the jurisdiction of the court is prescribed by the Law governing courts and the Law on Courts. Therefore, I also agree with the SPS parliamentary group without any back-up support for this approach to resolving a procedural legal situation, but in order for the procedural legal situation not to be in conflict with other laws, intervention is also needed in procedural laws relating to the jurisdiction of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25933	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Having adopted the amendment and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milica Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted the 25th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25934	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I would really like to thank you for your understanding of the Ministry and at all of your associates, that risk management is essentially something that has just not been so important in society and in work so far, when it comes to inspection bodies. Inspects at all do annual so-called work plans, and they have that orderly part when it comes to risk assessments, but they have never been so detailedly described through certain plans and programmes where all the opportunities that lead to certain objectives not being implemented are exclusively covered. When we talk about risks at all, they can be from the aspect of the economy and from the aspect of law. What is important is that now, in general, by passing this new law, this risk assessment in the work of inspection is becoming one of the important elements of the work of inspections at all and these surveillance plans that will be based on certain criteria are very important. But first of all, when we talk about risk assessment, it should be said that there has been insufficient practice in that application itself. They say it was only 46%, and based on these risk assessment findings, it was not made in the following year as one of the constituent factors that the inspections were working on. It is good that now it enters the integral part of the work and it is good that the simplest MPs of all parliamentary groups called the informal parliamentary group Economic Cocus have noticed that it is one of the important segments and that it is indeed accepted by both the Ministry and the Minister as one of the amendments. I think it'll do everyone a real good job of implementing this law itself. It's a good thing it's an integral part of that action plan you were talking about. I think that risk assessment really should cover all those opportunities and events that simply have a negative impact, and surely that damage is always costing someone somewhere. First of all, it costs the citizens of Serbia and I think that you are making huge savings when we talk about the budget itself, but you are making and saving up with citizens and legal entities who will no longer make mistakes that will cost them dearly, but simply the inspection bodies will now become more and more advisory, in some ways and education will educate both natural and legal persons about what risks they need to avoid in order to simply come to a real functioning framework of the system, and inspectors, when they are doing that risk assessment, will have less and less need to come into a certain kind of conflict. Whether they're natural persons or legal persons, simply that kind of conflict will be avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25935	Thank you. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25936	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honored Mrs. Udovici, the Honored Guests of the Ministry and the Honored Guests, the amendment to Article 28 submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I was one of the 15 accepted amendments that we submitted to the National Assembly on this bill. This, in my understanding, has made one good bill, gentlemen, even better, which I think deserves a congratulations here. I would like to remind the minister here and especially our guests and our guests, that we are in the principle debate, here, I mentioned it here, that we greatly appreciate the seriousness and expertise in the approach, in the preparation of the bill, especially when we are dealing with a government that does not stand out here for these years in its work in this regard. So if we were to evaluate these years of government work, we certainly wouldn't be able to say that it is a beauty of seriousness, of expertise in the preparation of the bill, and here we have an exception. We have here an exception to Mrs. Widowsky's actions and in terms of a very well-prepared explanation of this bill. When we add that and that our 15 amendments have been adopted, then one picture of this creation of even better laws is complete. What would absolutely complete this picture is if, in some way, we had some sort of situation of our will, respected Mrs. Udovici, come up with a superlative, so that we had a situation, for example. that all 22 amendments of the New Party have been adopted, so that perhaps we can say in this Assembly that we have the best possible bill, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25937	Thank you. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25938	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 28 refers to part of the specific measures of orders, bans and confiscation. We have made an amendment to paragraph 3 which says originally: “A inspector who prohibits the performance or exercise of activities shall have the right to order the supervised entity to seal business and production premises, facilities and other space in which he or she performs his or her activities, or which serves, installations, devices, equipment, accessories, means of work and other objects in which he or she performs his or her activity. ” We propose that this position be amended and that it reads: “The inspector who prohibits the performance or exercise of activities will order the supervised entity to seal the business and production premises, facilities and other space in which he performs the activity or performs the activity or which serves, installations, devices, equipment, accessories, means of work and other objects which carry out his or her activity, provided that the supervised entity counters the prohibition of performance or the exercise of activity.” We have given reason to believe that, given that the position of the 3rd regulates the case of determining a very rigorous measure of fishing of premises, plants, etc., we believe that this case must be very restrictively regulated and that there must be no minimum possibility of abuse, i.e. that the norm should be such as to explicitly indicate when the measure will be stated and that when such a case occurs, the inspector must make a statement. In that sense, we believe that the inspector cannot have discretionary authority, that he has the right to order, as you said, but must order when a specific case occurs, i.e. He'll order. Since the legislator did not foresee in which particular case the sealing of the premises would take place, we did so by amendment, so that this measure only comes in the event that the supervised entity acts against the prohibition of performance or the exercise of activity, and not as you suggested that it has the right to order depending on its discretionary assessment. So I think this amendment should be accepted. Otherwise, we will give the possibility of abuse on the ground in carrying out inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25939	Thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman of today's session, Mr. Becicu, respected Mrs. Udovicki and honored guests and guests from the ministry, I am pleased that this amendment to Article 29 concerning the protection of the rights of third parties has also been accepted. But I'd like to ask you a question, Mrs. Widowsky, about this amendment. We may not be able to get out of the context of this article's very text, but I think that the question can be connected to what's contained in this article. You, Mrs. Udovici, have, in your reasons for law-making very well, I think, written that we need reform and inspection, in line with modern understanding and inspection and the roles of inspection. What's left of me, despite our commendation of this bill? We'll vote for him. What remains unclear to me now, so perhaps your hospitality in the congregation today is an opportunity to clarify some things? It is mentioned this morning that in our government, and I believe now under some of your control, these so-called. You're the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the As far as I know, Mrs. Udovici, there is already under your control in Government and the Secretariat for Public Policy. There's also a vice president's team. Could you, Mrs. Widowsky, explain to us exactly what's going to happen, for example? With regard to this particular law, the task of these units to deliver results, how did we begin to translate ourselves into the meaning of what the eunuchs are? Why does it matter? In order for the Assembly and for us, as MPs, to be able to perform the control function of the executive authority in an appropriate way. If we don't know the meaning of some categories, then we can't function. That's why it's important to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25941	Time. Thank you. Members of the 30th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25942	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, Honorable Vice President Becic, the esteemed Lady Udovici and honored guests and guests, I see that Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic is always looking forward to me when I answer the word and now he sees this pleasure on his face, as well as other MPs, above all from the SNS, I think. I'd like to refer here to the previous presentation, but now for our amendment to Article 30, Mrs. Widowsky. It's very important, I think, Mrs. Widowsky, that we remove this veil of ignorance about what we call the results units. I assume that's your jurisdiction. I am particularly interested in the legal aspect of the introduction of these units to deliver results, or as they are popular today in Serbia in our language called transporti juniti. For example, Mrs. Widowsky, I've tried to really put it in some legal frames. I've been looking, for example. In the Government Act, so that we can define these units somehow, to fit them into something is law, not to have a veil of ignorance. Article 33. The government law implies the possibility of forming certain working bodies, even occasionally, that would deal with certain affairs. But based on everything we've heard about these units, it doesn't fit me in with what's contained in Article 33. Then I did some research on the Ministry Act, against which we were here exactly a year ago and suggested a completely different structure of government. I'm gonna use a little bit of it, Mr. Becic, time, those five amendment minutes. I have all that time, I think. I haven't spent a second.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25943	It's accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25944	It's very important to me now for this amendment to divulge this ignorance of what these units are. I then investigated the Ministry Act and found a possible basis for these units to deliver results in Chapter 3, Articles 19, 20, 21 and 22, and here are now defined jobs common to all ministries. I tried to see, since these results delivery units are now very expected, and no one knows what they are, who they are, who formed them, is it under your control, Mrs. Udovici, that I put them in some legal framework first. We can't do anything that's illegal. And innovation when we introduce, gentlemen, and these innovations must be consistent with what is the principle of the rule of law, which is a key principle in our Constitution. Here, Mr. Nejko Jovanovic confirms now and that, he is a lawyer and I now appreciate that court of a lawyer. Now, what do I conclude? I conclude this - if in a long time, Mrs. Udovici, we don't get an answer to this question about what these communications are Juneing, then here we will be among the citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25945	Mr. Pavicevic, you are aware that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25946	Article 30. Amendment to Article 30, Mr. Becic. I explained it, but you're listening a little bit, you're not listening a little bit, Mr. Becic. You're not listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25947	I listen very carefully. I also listen to the call of other MPs in some way to obtain the right to replication. There's no need for that, Mr. Pavicevic. Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25948	I'm on the amendment now, sir. Mrs. Widowsky understands very well what I'm talking about and what I'm asking her.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25949	And I understand very well, Mr. Pavicevic, that's why I'm interrupting you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25950	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Becic, please, no more. Here, now you've wasted my time again. So if, over a long period of time, and this is now an amendment to Article 30 of this bill that we will vote for, I repeat, Mr. Becic, we will maintain this ignorance, then, for example, Mrs. Udovici, I will conclude that in those big words, imagine now - the communications of the yun, will be substituting...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25951	And where is that word in the amendment, Mr. Pavicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25952	Yes, Mr. Becic. Here, sir, do you need me again...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25953	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25954	Mrs. Udovicki, I said, well wrote that this is also where this proposal for the reform law and inspection of inspection supervision is being carried out in accordance with the modern concepts of inspection supervision and the role of inspection. I have concluded, Mr. Becic, that what the task is and this law says – the reasons for the law-making must also be asked in one of these Junite transports. Then, if we, honored gentlemen, don't know what it is, we heard a translation, and it's one of the translations offered recently, and Mrs. Udovici is in charge, as you can see, of the inspection reform, of the state administration, etc., so there are some bodies, these are some units, Mr. Becic. How come you don't care what it is? How is it that, as one MP, 250 of us, and you know, as vice president of the Assembly, that the Assembly has a control function, that nothing illegal can be done, that you do not care what these units are for delivering results? I'd like to ask Mrs. Udovicki, with praise for this bill, and not just for this one, we've had previous experiences, a debate in the Assembly where we voted in favour of the bill that was defended by Mrs. Udovicki here, I just want to divulge this ignorance of an important innovation concerning the reform of our state administration. So, gentlemen, we must not overshadow the ignorance of the great words here, so that no one knows what is behind these great words. I just want to take this opportunity, when we're discussing a bill that could be relevant to these units, just to ask Mrs. Widowsky if she could draw us here today this scheme of actions of this government, within which there are, here, Mr. Becic, just to tell you, and the Department of Public Policy, which, I understand, has been coordinated by Mrs. Udovici since last year, there is a team of Deputy Prime Ministers, with that there are also units to deliver results? So, I don't know, as a folk MP, what is it. I can't put it in any law that's relevant, or in the Government Act, here's Article 33, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, Dear Mr. Becic, just as a folk MP here, I seek clarification of the meaning of something that is an innovation regarding the functioning of our state administration, and the ministries are the highest authorities of the state administration. I think we need to know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25955	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25956	I ask Mrs. Udovicki – can the scheme today draw for us, so that we may not live in ignorance, honourable Members of the People? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25957	We're not ignorant, Mr. Pavicevic, so we don't have to ask, but you're right. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Kori Udovicki. We're not ignorant, Mr. Pavicevic, so we don't have to ask, but you're right. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25959	I don't think you could have found it because you looked in the wrong places. When it comes to the so-called. “delevers of the Junites” or “on a consulting scheme that helps with this administration to be as it is, as we have forwarded it and how we will change it, very slowly. I've said more than once, anyone who promises citizens or requires that the state administration, the public administration in Serbia turn into something effective the other night, and functionally, it has no good intentions, it's just trying to obstruct the effort that we're making right now to do something that minimum 15, in fact, no one has tried to do for a minimum of 25 years. Meanwhile, while the Public Policy Secretariat, which is part of the system and part of the institution, is building procedures, is working to amend the legislative process, to change the process, to adopt public policies, is working to get for the first time plans that will be awakened, which will be feasible, not wish lists. But it must, therefore, first build analytical capacity in the ministries that have been destroyed in previous years, in which it is very rare and difficult to find people who can write an analysis of public policy in advance, and then offer alternatives. Well, then, to wake up how much an alternative costs. Well, to bring strategy then. Well, then, that this strategy is consistent with others while we build and repair this country at the same time we want to deliver the most priorities that need to be done and which are urgently needed to recover the economy, to start Serbia moving faster and to improve what has not been done, primarily in fiscal consolidation and in realising project building, investment building in previous years. The involvement of advisors and consultants is a completely unprepared matter, and that's all that's been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25960	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25961	Dear President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow Members, we are on an amendment that did not speak this way in the broader context of how state administration should look at all, but what has been stated by the amendment's promoter, which is ultimately accepted, actually gives a picture that we have not opened in this House. But it should be said that, first of all, everything relating to the “destiver yunit” or so on. units, we should not be so interested in parliament, because we are interested in the supervisory control role of the government, and the government has set itself certain scales and goals that it controls itself. The prime minister has the right under the law to hire different types of advisers, in different areas and ministries. The size of this prime minister using the experiences of developed countries in this economic sense united the work of certain advisers, the first five he called "delevers yunit" that each day should achieve practically this control mechanism what each ministry has done and what these results are. In these statistics, he simply gets information as he progresses with certain policies. Well, and state administration policies. It is good, then, that there are such control mechanisms that the government sets itself up. Thus, when it comes through the reports here, in front of the MPs, she already has a solution to the situation when we are even talking about the results of the work. Thus, we raise one scale when we talk about the steps we need to take to form economic reforms and reforms of the state administration. Well, if this reform is seen through the amendment subject and subject, and we therefore accept it as a solution that it is good to adopt these lexic changes, then by doing so, the government shows that it is ready for radical changes. Well, and those related to what you call in the spirit of the Serbian language and when we talk about amendments that are totally acceptable in that part. So we don't need anyone to worry about this room, which is why we're setting ourselves up control mechanisms. The government is doing it in its work, parliament is doing it through its committees, and I think that we are doing good to everyone, and most to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25962	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Members of the 31st Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25963	Thank you. Therefore, we have proposed an amendment to Article 31, and that is to say, in paragraph 3 of point 1 which we have proposed to amend, and it is originally said – if after the publication of the act, the application of the rules is spoken of, then, if, after the issue of the application of the law, the subject matter of the application of the law is amended in such a way that the management measure to the supervised entity can be given. We suggested adding a sentence, another part of the sentence, which reads – and on the website published a notice about changing the rules. So, in the event that the regulation is changed, and the subject did not, for example, know and follow instructions that are no longer current, it can be given the management measure. We believe that this rule is too strict and unfair and that in our terms a problem can be created for supervised entities. Namely, the law enforcement act constitutes a specific instruction or notification among other things as to how to apply the rules. It is realistic to expect that the supervised entity will rely to a greater extent on such instructions than they will read or follow the regulations themselves. Such a situation should not be a difficult situation for them, and it is good that our amendment has been accepted and I thank Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25964	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President Mr. Becic, Mrs. Udovicki and the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, the amendment to Article 32 is another one of those 15 accepted amendments submitted by the New Party MPs. I think it's okay because by accepting these amendments in this particular case, in a language sense, the content of this bill has been slightly improved. I must now return here to this subject of the task force to deliver the results because the previous discussion has just shown to what extent there is one terrible ignorance about it, gentlemen. It is true that the government can form and educate bodies, occasional, permanent, but every body formed by the government we have here to know what the body is, what is the authority of that body and that the formation of that body is absolutely consistent with what the laws of this state are. Mrs. Widowski, for example, says - it's consular services. Mrs. Tomic says – no, not now they are advisers who are already there, so it is an additional control mechanism. We actually now conclude that we don't know what it is. Mrs. Udovicki says - you didn't look in a good place. Well, where shall I look, gentlemen, but in the Law of the Government of the Ministry. Well, these are the basic laws in which I can find some information as a basis for these units. So, I have now concluded that there is absolutely ignorance here about it, and the government as an executive body of government here cannot just form bodies, organs, units, but it must be transparent, that each of us knows exactly what it is and what it is, the Honorable Vice President, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25966	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25967	I'm glad the government accepted this amendment. But here, the controversy is about some other things that have absolutely nothing to do with the proposed amendment or the proposed law. When it comes to misunderstandings of "junite deleveriers", i.e. the unit for delivery of results, the only thing he does not know and does not recognize the applicant of the amendment is the key word, the result. Now, you see exactly the result separates us from you, because this government, this assembly majority, is interested in the result, the result that the government shows towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this ignorance, and by not understanding the need for results, you show your relationship with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, you must ask the colleagues sitting in front of you, why does Bojan Pajtic not set up these units to deliver results? There are two possibilities to organize them, both for the shadow government and for this official government, which has ruled the Vojvodina, for how many years and decades, and which is also in the shadows, because there are no results. Why does he, why does Bojan Pajtic not form the units for delivering results? No results, ladies and gentlemen, there's nothing to boast about, nothing to say about what they're going to go out with in front of citizens living in Vojvodina. With what? With what results? Because of that, I think this is an appeal for you, Mr. Chairman, not because we want to run away from any topic. We can speak, we can organise a special session of the Assembly, when the results and these governments are at stake, but also the results of Bojan Pajtic, for the last 20 and change years, as much as it is in power, and how the citizens of Vojvodina live now from these results, and "delivery is the one that separates us from you. Results, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25968	Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the judiciary committee, state law and local self-government accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Please, Mr Pavicevic, but please do not now violate the Rules of Procedure, as in previous amendments and speak of this amendment. Please, Mr. Giric, don't throw it away. In Article 33 paragraph 1, the word ‘entity’ is replaced by the word ‘entity’. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, respected Mrs. Udovici, honored guests and guests of the Ministry, the "entity" which is now in question, Mr. Becic, is precisely about the one who read the bill, we all know that, as well as the possibility of doing a task force to deliver results, Mr. Becic. I've read this bill. That's the word. Here, Mr. Becic, let me confirm that to you right here. It says - a special procedure against an unregistered entity. Look, and in an explanation, here's the explanation, I have to explain, I have to, here's the lady won't draw, I'll draw, and in an explanation, Mrs. Udovicki says - the reform of inspection inspections according to the modern understanding of inspection supervision and the role of inspections, Mr. Becic, and there must be delivered one result.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25970	Mr. Pavicevic, you're now saying that if Mrs. Widowsky doesn't want you to do it, you said you were in ignorance and you didn't know how to do it, that someone had to teach you. If you're in the dark, how do you know how to do it now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25971	Here, let me explain. This "entity", Mr. Becic... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25972	It's not worth it, Mr. Pavicevic. Don't talk about the amendment. Thank you. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the government and the judiciary committee, state law and local self-government accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25973	An amendment which, in addition to the amendment of the Committee to Article 22, is essentially an amendment dealing with the key changes introduced by this law into inspection supervision. That Article 22 referred to inspection in the residential space or users, and this one refers to unregistered facilities. These are the two key things that this law introduces as a newspaper, along with, of course, the whole idea of centralization. What is there, possibly, controversial in this amendment and by which it differs from the basic member of the 33rd in the text of the Bill of Law which, in order to cover everything he can, is extremely large and unusually long for a member of the law. Essentially, the amendment says that the inspector can carry out inspection supervision of an unregistered facility as well as that the object is registered. This is the key content developed in views so that the right is guaranteed and one who works in an unregistered facility and the obligation of the inspector involved in the process. In the case of inspection controls with registered facilities, these are the former members of 28 to 32 who are talking about the inspector, that if he finds illegal activities, to rob goods, closes the place where the goods are produced, trades, performs any economic activity, and gives a warrant to remove illegality in the work of a registered legal or natural person in a registered facility. This law now says the same thing it does with an unregistered object. Why do I feel it is important to discuss this article 33rd, or amendment submitted by a fellow MP. Because it is necessary to further consider whether the good intentions of the legislator, not the amendment, and then the amendment, will lead to the preventive registration of the objects. I guess that's the point. Then this article would make sense. So if the National Assembly decides that the inspector has the same powers and almost the same procedures,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25974	Mrs. Comic, you have no more time with authority. Are you using MPs' time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25975	I'm using the MP's time group. Thank you. Therefore, if the inspector has the same powers over a registered and unregistered facility, legal and physical person, then they should, above all, hear those who have an unregistered facility, who do all the work without enlisting in the register, although there are activities that they do not have to do so, in order to avoid confiscation of goods, closure of shops, giving sentences and placing orders to eliminate illegal business. So, if that's the goal, then I understand that good intention, but what's the problem is I see shortcomings in achieving these good intentions, as are the ethics of good intentions. They almost never get a good result for anyone. It's just easy, nice to say, well, I wanted good, I had good intentions. The most wrongly possible sentence that we can cultivate in society is anything that meets in the ethics of good intentions, unlike the ethics of responsibility on which developed societies rest, whom we rightly want to join and which such legislation is, in part, a condition and part, which is what Vice President Vlades told the law about when she mentioned all the difficulties in reforming the state administration in general, and then inspections. So, when we look at the members of the law and with the amendment tabled by a fellow MP, I lack an answer to the question – when and in what way in other regulations we will provide an inspector who controls, monitors and conducts, inspection tasks over an unregistered object, it does so so that his work is legally irrefutable. I know that one of the possible answers will be, if the inspector does unregistered facilities and conducts the entire surveillance procedure, this law says he's right and can't argue with his decision. The missing part of a person who has a registered facility, also for some reason has illegal stores, so he has space, has a mechanism to get in touch with the minister's decision, this one doesn't, because he has to register the facility first, the shop and everything else, and then there's no possibility of complaining about the inspector's decision in any of the proceedings. It can be a very serious problem, although I can read it that way because I see good intentions, and I know that good intentions never bring a good result, then by reading it to the owners of unregistered objects, then you'll have the opportunity to happen that one good process that should happen in our society, which is that those who avoid paying taxes on everything they pay taxes on, those who have registered shops, the production of everything else, those who don't pay contributions to workers versus those who do it, so this whole group should also be introduced through inspection supervision into the legal system of business. You will have in essence that in case anyone else reads like this, the possibility to dispute the legality of the inspector's decision to oversee an unregistered operation, then you do not have a good effect that the law should expect and against which no one is against. What are the difficulties in reality, we can immediately divide into the fact that, say, there is no easier job than to ask the labour inspectors to ask the employers who are registered, to deliver papers of employees for Saturdays and weeks, to see if the Labour Act is respected, to see if they are paid what they need to be paid under the law, so that doesn't happen. (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: As with you. ) People's MPs who earn "as you do" or to read the Rules of Procedure or to ask for a word and to enter a dialogue with me or with the hope that the presidents of the National Assembly will turn to anything they mean as a prose and a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because every kind of throw-off will not interfere with me to open up, and I hope a successful dialogue on how to make the gray economy...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25976	MPs, now you're...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25977	How to make the gray economy an inspection...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25978	... moved to the gray zone of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25979	What are the MPs doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25980	Moved to the gray zone of Parliament's work, a little bit about the amendment, a little bit about the conduct of MPs. I mean, that's the usual thing for us. You're not the exception.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25981	Your inspection service has determined that I'm doing your job...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25982	A little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25983	... Since you were under obligation that the people's messengers who receive the people's messengers who speak warn that this is not done, for it is forbidden... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Giric. ) Including the one that gets behind the back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25984	And behind your back, I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25985	It's not nice...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25986	All right, MPs, let's go back to the amendment now, let's leave the MPs who get to think about it for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25987	Any MPs who get to think for themselves or just some MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25988	All MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25989	Thank you. Here, it's consistent application of both the Rules of Procedure and the Law. This "all" means all MPs, since I guarantee there will be misunderstandings, which means "all" and "all", all 250. The reason for suspicion, i.e. the obvious lack of space in which an unregistered person may complain about the inspector's decisions only under this law should be subject to a very serious dialogue. I heard some of the answers, and I don't consider them as justified as I said when I heard the answers to Article 22 in the principle debate when I said I didn't consider them to be well-founded, whether it was done by a representative of the Government or by a counselor. I don't like it when I'm right, when it comes to this kind of thing, and for Article 22, unfortunately, I was right and it's a good decision for both the Committee and the Government to change that Article 22. I hope I'm wrong to suspect that good intentions have no mechanisms of responsibility for carrying out the intention when it comes to inspection of unregistered facilities. It's not the only inspection surveillance that can suppress the gray economy, and I've asked that, and I know that the problem of the gray economy is such that the government is making a comprehensive plan, but I don't want to be right and to see this good intention falls "without a mechanism" that the person who will be subject to control is left without the right to complain about the decision of the inspector, the rights of a person who has a registered facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25990	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25991	It's been said too many times to think it's a lapus. It's not the object, the building, the building, whether it's registered or not, whether or not it's registered, whether it's a controlled object, but it's too many times been said in the earlier presentation of a colleague, that I believe it's not a lapus. As for the law itself, but also the proposed amendment, what bothered me, and I believe that it is not a bad intention, is a sentence – the government had good intentions when it proposed such a law. I'm not sure or sure about the amendment's intention. How can this amendment to an unconscious, not-so-good amendment promoter accept a safe and consensual government? This bill was written and proposed in agreement and somehow when it comes to inspection in Serbia, there are always two sides - state, i.e. inspection and entities that are supervised, controlled and all those people who work in Serbia. Somehow that polarization isn't good. It's not good to scare the kids with a bogeyman and a police officer, and it's not good to scare the businessmen by inspection. This law was written, proposed in agreement between the inspection, the state and the businessmen, finally all on the same side. I'm telling you this from a personal impression that I had in the context of the often mentioned coconut when the representatives of the economy, not all of them, but one good part of the representatives of the economy, had that opinion about the proposed law. One of the main grudges so far, the main objections to inspection supervision, was that the inspectors were passing unregistered subjects, aside from all those people who were tormented, homeless, unemployed, losing their jobs in transition, the pain made the losers of transition, the torment made those people go out on the street and make money in the gray and black zone to feed their family so much and I understand them, everyone has to fight. If he can't get a job, he'll take out a box, sell something, try to secure how much – as much – that kind of existence. Is such a situation sustainable? No, it's not. Is there a state where the state of hide-and-seek looks at these people? No, and we watched too long, we bought at the secretary's social peace, we said – Yes, it's okay, 25% unemployed, let them make some money on the street, let them do something in the gray and black zone, the smaller riot social will be. It's an irresponsible state, which is why we haven't even had an inspection law so far. We didn't have a roof law that would regulate the relationship of inspectors and businessmen. We want to take care of the area. We want there to be no people in Serbia who will sell on cardboard boxes anything. We want everyone to have the right to start their own company based on their 10 fingers, based on their knowledge, their work, their energy, they can earn both for themselves and for their employees and for their family. We don't want the land of cardboard boxes. We don't want a country of gray and black zone that the state will look favorably upon just because it's buying social peace. It took too long. I couldn't conclude, although I followed closely, I even communicated with my colleagues whether they realized whether the previous speaker for controlling unregistered entities was or not to control non-registered entities. I didn't get it. I think it's necessary to give the inspection the authority to control registered entities as well as unregistered entities. Because every non-registered subject, every bill paid without a fiscal bill is less schools in Serbia, is less hospitals, less kindergartens, less roads. Is there anything like that and that kind of perpetum of a mobile that we can maintain in our society? I don't think that's possible. It is necessary that the inspection has control over how registered entities, especially unregistered subjects, where the key is to give an opportunity and give a chance to everyone, and even today, while we are talking about inspection surveillance now, maybe even today selling on some cardboard box and thus earning a few hundred or a few thousand dinars, give these people a chance to register their actions, that they can enter legal flows, because I think it's better for the state, because, of course, by paying taxes, they'll have more opportunities for us to recover our public finances as soon as possible, our public finances that others have become ill with carelessness and unregistered entities, but also according to those registered. In this way, market policy and competition will be significantly better and will take place based on quality, not on the courage that someone will work in an illegal zone. It will be good for our citizens too, because in the end, what they pay through the price, which is the value added tax, will be returned to them through much better and more built and schools and kindergartens and roads and all that the state takes care of. That's why I think this amendment was given with good faith. That is why this amendment is also accepted by the Government with good faith, as is the entire inspection law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25992	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25993	Thank you. I didn't slow down a good will at all, not a good intention, but this was a very nice answer, too, but that's not an answer to my question, which is everyone's right to say whatever they want, but if it's already the subject of the amendment, then it would be logical to answer the question of someone who's commenting on the amendment. So my question for the ministry's associates is -- in control of unregistered activity, the inspector acts equally, as if he controls and registered activity where some illegality appears. When an inspector sets out measures in the registered activities, then the owner has mechanisms to ensure that the measures that the inspector has made are legally stated. And it's not a dispute, you have it now, only it's not done enough as I mentioned an example of a violation of labour rights, in many places, with weekly work, non-issuelisting, non-payment of additional hours and so forth. What I am asking you is – how can we ensure that the measure applied to this law and to unregistered activities is actually applied, because when the person to whom the unregistered activity is an inspector gives the measures, it cannot speak to anyone about whether the inspector's procedure is legal and in accordance with other regulations or not, because it is the first measure of registering activity? I can't ask more clearly what is the possible space of dispute from which we will have common damage? I also ask the representatives of the Government and the applicant of the amendment, because if there is no clear answer for the person of unregistered activity who gets an order from the inspector to register his activity and then the inspector is still taking away his goods, his documentation, his object and everything else, does that person have any protection against the illegal conduct of the inspector in that case? I'm not talking about the Guardian of Citizens. I'm talking about that kind of protection that has a face that has registered activity. This may seem quite clear and obvious to you, and that is why I mentioned Article 22. Just a few days ago, in the course of a principle debate, it was clear and clear to everyone that article 22 is fine. Well, when we had a little dialogue and talked, then all of a sudden it wasn't right, so the Committee tabled the amendment and I said, "I don't like it when I'm right about these risks to protect the legality or protect the rights or obligations of a public authority holder." It's the only question I have about the amendment, and the answer I've received is, unfortunately, expected to be watched under unregistered actions by people who sell things on boxes. In the principle debate, I had a comment and fortunately, the Deputy Prime Minister assured me because I asked if this would come to your attention to the markets and to the people who sell on the boxes? And then there was an excellent response from the Deputy Prime Minister on comprehensive measures where this is only one measure, and that the last on the list of these measures is the people the amendment promoter speaks of, without answering my question. This does not make it useful, there is no better law and there is no reduction of what is the objective of these provisions in the law, and this is an invitation to all those who have unregistered activities, entities that work in illegal facilities, who have workers who do not pay under the Labour Act that because of the possibility and because of the legal powers that the inspector will have to register before the law enters into force. That's a good idea. What I'm interested in is protecting the right to apply this good idea that will increase the legality, the legitimacy of everything that works in our economy, no matter how large and who the person that works as a registered entity and what object it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25994	You've wasted both your time with authority and your group. Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has submitted an amendment to Article 35. Minister, do you accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25996	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 36th amendment. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25997	Thank you. In Article 36(1), we proposed to delete: "workers", and in paragraph 4, after saying, "additional of the minutes", to change in a closed manner and to delete the words "to which an objection can be placed". Article 36(1) provides that the supervisory entity shall have the right to make observations in writing on the inspection report within five working days of its receipt. The amendment proposes erasing the words ‘work’ in order to comply with other provisions of the proposal, but also for reasons of advantage in calculating the number of days irrespective of the circumstances of whether the working days or not are working, both for whom, this can be interpreted as such. The decision contained in paragraph 4 of that same Article excludes the possibility of making objections to the supplementary minutes. We believe that this solution is opposed to the basic rules of the general administrative procedure, and we propose, by amendment, to delete part of the norm which allows the amendment to be made to the supplementary minutes. We thought you were going to go to the efficiency and economy of the procedure, which you explained and said, but you did not accept the amendment, given that it was a short period of time and that that deadline was set in favour of the supervisory entity, so I would ask you to take another look at that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25998	The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 37. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senić and MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradić submitted to the 37th amendment. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u25999	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Article 37 refers to a solution adopted by the inspector and decides on management measures for the supervised entity. We have made an amendment to paragraph 4, which says that "in the event of a measure and an oral solution being imposed, the inspector is obliged to make an official note of the measure and to make a written decision within three days of the date of the oral decision. “ We suggested that this deadline not be three days but that it be no later than the next day. The government did not accept this amendment, citing, "the estimated three-day time limit for a written solution after the oral solution has been given is appropriate, taking into account the scope and complexity of individual solutions" - means, not all but individual ones, "which are adopted in the inspection procedure". As the inspector decides to take management measures towards the supervised entity, and especially as the oral solution is made for the removal, I repeat, "direct threats to the life and health of people, property of greater value, environment or plant and animal life", and as the oral solution is an exception to the general rule, we believe it is necessary to adopt the written solution no later than the next day. So I ask the congregation's majority to consider and accept our proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26000	Thank you. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Aleksandra Tomic and Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic and MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradić submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26001	I think it's a good thing our amendment was accepted. It's about a 39th article relating to a complaint. So, “against the inspector’s solution, an appeal can be made within eight days of the day of delivery of the written solution, ” which was the proposal, and we suggested that it be 15 days. We think it's more appropriate, because it's still about people who need to analyse the record and possibly file a complaint. I would also point out that, in certain legal solutions, this deadline is 15 days, for example, I will give you article 387. The Energy Act, which reads: "A complaint may be made to the ministry within 15 days of the date of receipt of the solution." So it's also about removing conflicting norms in certain systemic or sectoral laws, and I think it's a good thing the government has accepted our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26002	Thank you. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Aleksandra Tomic and Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovici, the Honorable Guests of the Ministry and the Honorable Guests, we have submitted this amendment with a correction and I would just like to explain that part, as well as to make a suggestion to you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I will explain this proposal in the context of my amendment time, I will not spend anything on the Rules of Procedure. We later, once again reading the bill and amendment, because we have to read more times, notice another mistake that, as responsible people, we have had to react, so our amendment has now been directed to change three things, instead of changing two things, as originally intended. All three changes have been accepted and I think it's a good thing that Mrs. Widowsky and her team have accepted these changes to make the law better. Now I have one proposal, Mrs. Gojkovic. Mr. Becic, Vice-President of the Assembly, holds the highest chair of the National Assembly sessions. Over time, Mr. Becic is starting to turn off our microphones, Mrs. Gojkovic. He interrupts me after a minute, a minute and a half, two. Probably a man gets tired. I'm not saying it's a matter of purpose. So I ask you, and this is my proposal, that the time of the National Assembly's meeting session is evenly scheduled by the vice presidents, so that we do not enter into this kind of risk, that someone, for example, because of fatigue, as with Mr. Becic, begins to exclude the microphones of the opposition, for example, not to warn SNS MPs when they receive and I now suggest it to you, because you, as Parliament president, decide who will chair. I think it's okay for the presidency to be held evenly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26004	Thank you very much. It's been two minutes. Since you said you didn't want to look after the Rules of Procedure, I respect that. I hear you've been talking about "delivery unit" not the law and the amendments, but we'll listen to you very carefully. I'll think about having everyone sit down, so no one gets tired. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26005	I would just like to say once again that this, honourable president, is one of the 15 accepted amendments of the New Party and to congratulate both Mrs Udovici and guests from the ministry and guests from the ministry, but also the MPs of all MPs here who will vote for this bill and for the amendments of the New Party which, by accepting this bill, become an integral part of this proposal. My pleasure is great, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26006	Thank you. Members of the 44th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and together Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Blaža Bradić. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26007	Thank you. I don't want to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for accepting this amendment, because I think it was necessary, as I think it was necessary for the rest of you to accept the amendments, but, well. Although in a certain way, it was minimal, this very bad law was corrected, which did not take advantage of the opportunity, i.e. the government did not take advantage of the opportunity to make a good, quality law and that inspection supervision was actually used to control and implement the law in practice. What we've been looking for with this amendment and finally achieved, it's that the inspection has to report on its work within a certain time limit. In addition, before that was planned, we proposed that it be no later than 31 January of the following year for the previous year. The government accepted this, as accepted by the elements of the report, in the sense that the report states, i.e. to highlight the number of complaints lodged and the areas of work covered by these objections, in order to have a better structure of the report. In that sense, these amendments will, in a few ways, fix, as I said, not good enough or bad enough. I apologize to you, President. I couldn't explain my amendments for half an hour. It is a great radio colleague Bradic, after I joined the protest, as well as counterpart Marko Djurisic, a pensioner who is justifiably protesting pension cuts, and on the other hand I would like to join Mr Pavicevic's proposal when it comes to resting the chairman here...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26008	We'll leave that behind for the college. I'm rested, don't worry about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26009	But you should be included in that vacation schedule.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26010	We will. Thank you very much. This is what I cannot recommend to the MPs, that they occasionally rest for democratic dialogue in this House, for example, such as today's session. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Do you want a word? The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26011	The proposal for this law establishes the status of inspectors, so that the inspectors are civil servants with special rights, obligations and responsibilities. In the further text of the law, the obligations, responsibilities and powers of the inspector are defined. The civil servants' law also states that civil servants' calls are according to the type of work they perform and the degree of responsibility and independence in work. In the current text of the Civil Service Act, the calling of advisors is given for less responsible tasks, i.e. tasks that a civil servant cannot carry out on his own, and needs the help of a superior in his work. In order to carry out inspection supervision, it takes expertise, independence, the responsibility of a civil servant, and therefore we believe that the inspector cannot be determined by this law to call an adviser, i.e. calling for smaller jobs. In Article 49 of this Law, it is clear that the inspector is independent in his work and that he is personally responsible for his work. On the basis of the above, it is clear that inspectors should be determined to call a senior advisor, an independent advisor, if they take administrative actions or impose administrative measures. Adviser, junior advisor, associate or junior associate, if they take administrative action without imposing administrative measures. The aim of the reform of the state administration is to establish a functional, efficient and responsible state administration, and this can be achieved if, in accordance with the law, the calls resulting from complexity, accountability and independence, carried out by the inspectors themselves, are established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26012	Thank you. Members of the 47th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and together Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Blažje Bradić. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26013	Good day to the chairman once again, so in our amendment we have proposed a language correction in detail by analysing the law. In the current version, it is said – the inspector's exam is passed in writing and verbally. Our proposal is that this position of Article 1 47 reads – "The examination for the inspector consists of written and oral work". In the opinion of colleagues who know better the rules of Serbian language, this solution is more meaningful and would be even more precise, as it is not clear what the exam means for the inspector, it is laid in writing and verbally. So whether the same exam is passed both orally and in writing, or if there is a particular part that is written, which is different from the oral part and in that part, this will have to be specified. Perhaps that would be better done by law than by sublegal acts, and in that sense I think that you should have accepted this amendment, because this leaves a lot of freedom, i.e. broad interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26014	National MPs Branka Karavidić and Ivan Karic together submitted the title above the members and Article 48 of the amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26015	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Ministers, our amendment refers to giving authority to an officer who is not an inspector and entrusting professional business to another person who is not an inspector. We have provided for our amendment to delete both titles and Articles 48. Namely, in the first position of this Article in the proposal for a law, it is said that, in the event of a absence, i.e. longer prevention of the inspector, or where special circumstances require the immediate conduct of unscheduled supervision within a specified period, the inspection officer may authorise an officer who fulfils the conditions laid down for the inspector other than the inspector's examination, to carry out temporary tasks, to take over administrative actions in inspection with all the powers and obligations of the inspector, while these circumstances are taking place. In this attitude, they are, in particular, not even given deadlines that are supposed to be in place. Then, in this second part, it is said that the unscheduled conduct of unplanned surveillance within a specified time limit. What time? We believe that it is unacceptable to substitute the tasks of the inspector to any other officer, given the importance and role and competence of the inspector, and that the absent, or longer-fused inspector, may be replaced only by another inspector, under the authority of the inspector. For these reasons, we've actually asked for the erasure of this amendment. The government has not accepted our amendment with an explanation that giving authority to a non-inspective officer, to carry out inspection and authority of a non-inspective person, to carry out certain professional inspection tasks, has to be considered an exception, which will be applied restrictively under justified circumstances. Not a single provision in this Article shall guarantee the restriction in the application of this Standard. The substitution of the authority of inspectors by us devises the attributes of inspectors in terms of expertise, qualification of work experience, which can lead to the inspection by these officers being inextricable, and the acts they bring are illegal, and I ask you once again to accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26016	Thank you. Members of the 48th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and MPs together Marko Djurisic, Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Blaža Bradić. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26017	I thank the Honorable Madam President, the Honorable Minister and Representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our parliamentary group disagrees in no way with the formulation of Article 48 of the Law, and therefore, in addition to the proposed amendment, we have offered another version to regulate this area in a more appropriate way. We've also offered a different amendment in the hope that you'll have an understanding of at least one variant of these. In fact, we predicted that Article 48 would add a new position to Article 4, which reads: “A staff member from Sections 1 and 2 and a person from Article 3 cannot impose administrative measures in inspection supervision. Article 48 regulates the granting of authority to an officer who is not an inspector. This officer shall have the conditions laid down for inspectors, except for the expert examination, and shall be given the authority to carry out administrative activities in inspection supervision with all the powers and obligations of the inspectors. Since it is not clear because of this second act, with all the powers and obligations of the inspector, whether or not the authority of such an officer is being extended and to the authority to express administrative measures, we consider it necessary to add the position we have proposed and how we have formulated it. The Government rejected the amendment with a strange explanation that the granting of authority to a non-inspector to carry out inspection tasks, as well as the powers of a non-inspective person to carry out certain professional inspection tasks, shall be considered an exception which will be subject to restrictions under justified circumstances. I ask the question, first of all, who guarantees the restrictive application of this standard? Is there any guarantee that this standard will really be applied restrictively? Secondly, an even more important solution from the previous law can lead to dangerous consequences, as supervision by an officer who does not have an inspector's exam means that he is not qualified enough, has no knowledge, skills and experience of an inspector, and will be able to impose administrative measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26018	Thank you. Members of the 49th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26019	Dear President-in-Office, honourable Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs, we have proposed that a new position be added in Article 49 after Article 1 – "inspector is obliged to carry out his work in a safe and responsible manner". The existing position 2 would become heading 3. The government did not accept this amendment with an explanation that the conduct of civil servants was governed by regulations and other general acts. I would agree that in the last year we haven't passed a number of laws that also contained certain things that were in some other laws and acts. We brought the same session of "lex specialis" in which several members are already in the Expropriation Act, so it didn't bother us to pass that law, and we think that this sentence is important to find in this very roof law that regulates the work of all inspection services. So, if the inspectors are obliged to carry out their work in a safe and responsible manner, and I think it would be good in any law that regulates the work of civil servants, the state authorities to make one such provision, one reminder of what the work of those representing the state and doing business related to this state is. Well, we here in the Assembly, ministers in the government, employees of civil servants, because if everyone had this in front of them all the time, then things like today are probably not going to happen as a group of pensioners are looking for their rights, because someone isn't responsible and they're doing their job safe, and that's why I think it was better to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26020	The word is made by the National Ambassador Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26021	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that the proposed amendment is unnecessary because the work of state authorities and civil servants is regulated by a number of other legal solutions, so there is no need to burden this text of the law. The work of the national authorities must be dominated by principles and security and accountability and legality, but also by respect for jurisdiction and speeds in solving administrative matters and bans on receiving bribes, etc. All of us who receive salaries from the state are obliged to adhere to these principles and principles and to do our job in a safe and responsible and legal manner and quickly, so insisting on the respect of these principles through each legal text would be unnecessary and excessive and only repeat what is known to everyone, and already regulated by other system laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26022	Thank you. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go. HHHHH
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovicu, the esteemed Mrs Udovici, the honored guests and guests of the ministry, I have one previous note only for Mr Arsenovic, and then let me add a few more words. You see, Mr. Arsenovic, how I fought to have you chair the session today. Mrs. Gojkovic intervened, decided that neither she now holds the presidency nor Mr. Becic, but that you would chair a session of the National Assembly for a time, as is the order, Mr. Arsenovic. On the case of this amendment, I want to show how important it is that the MPs and, of course, Mrs. Widowsky and her team are very precise, and not only seriously and professionally, which was already the case, I was saying, approach the preparation of the bill. In the case of Article 51, let me just show the other MPs, among other things, what the official ID looks like. It has now been written – the official ID contains the small coat of arms of the Republic of Serbia, the organisational position, many of the things it contains, and then we noticed, for example. That there is one thing missing, and that is a unique number of IDs, that every person carrying his or her identity has its own unique number, and not that that legitimacy can hang anyone and show anyone and then Mrs. Udovicki, I mean adequately and realistically react, this amendment has been accepted. We immediately looked at the MP's ID, and also the MP's ID, and we put it in an explanation, each of us who's an MP, got a small parliamentary ID and didn't write the MP's ID and that one, but wrote the number of IDs. Mr. Babic has his number of IDs. Mrs. Vukomanovic's. Mr. Marinkovic's number. So there must be a number and it's for me an example of precision in preparing the bill. Good for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26024	I'd just like to do the truth, but we agreed today at 11 a.m. that I'm in charge of two hours. Members of the 52nd Amendment were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26025	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have suggested that in Article 52(4), paragraph 4 be deleted. We have explained in the explanation that Article 52 of the Article 1 provides that each person shall have the right to appeal against the inspector, inspector, or officer authorised to carry out inspection checks if he considers that their illegal or irregular work, i.e. unwitting work, has violated his rights or freedoms. Article 4 provides that when the complainant is not satisfied with the decision on the complaint, the complainant may address it to the co-ordination commission. We believe that attitude 4 should be deleted because it regulates the situation of control of the legality and purpose of the work of the administration and is regulated by other regulations and is also the jurisdiction that belongs to the Protector of Citizens. It can't possibly belong to the co-ordination committee. In addition, attitude four, as formulated too much has been put in general. No appeal procedure or decision-making procedure is provided for. The decisions to be taken under the complaint are not provided for, nor are their legal facts, and a whole series of other issues are unregulated by the placing of this position in Article 52. The government has not accepted the amendment since this introduces a control mechanism for the work of inspectors and inspectors, as well as given the fact that, besides citizens, supervisors can also be legal persons. It is precisely this matter that is regulated by other regulations, to which, secondly, the government is almost regularly calling for reasons to refuse amendments. The existing position 4. whose erasure we have sought to remove the legal process and the purpose of the administration's work from that of the competent institutions to the coordinating body, and in addition does not norm the procedure and procedure of carrying out that control. For these reasons, therefore, we asked for the removal of attitude 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26026	Thank you. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26027	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman of today's session in this period of two, so let's see how many hours, Mr Arsenovicu, respected Mrs. Udovici, honored guests and guests from the Ministry, One last note, I accept this, Mr Arsenovic, if there had been a plan before that you would have chaired of two and I would have been terribly interested, for example, if you would now tell us how many hours will you chair, and when, for example, will Mr Ninoslav Stojadinovic take over or anyone else from the vice president of the National Assembly? If we could know that here, it would contribute to this one precision, information and knowledge that needs to be adorn our work together in this National Assembly. I'll be brief about this amendment, less than two minutes. Let me just say that the acceptance of this amendment is part of a single approach which today adorns our debate here and joint work, and this work implies that we are all here aimed at respecting the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language, towards greater urgency in the application of the law, towards a stricter criminal policy, to a faster start of effective law enforcement and to one terrible precision when we use the words that will stand in some bill. For Mr. Marinkovic, let me just say, Vladimira, president of our economic cocus here, one more thing is important, the whole debate today shows something different than what Mr. Marinkovic's position today was. Mr Marinkovic said – the opposition in the Assembly is hopeless. You can see today, gentlemen, that it isn't. Most of our amendments are accepted here, our arguments are respected, the explanation accepted as a whole. That means, gentlemen, that this work and opposition, Mr. Marinkovic, and how it makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26028	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26029	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course my words were misrepresented, for reasons I would never say, but of course I didn't say that Mr. Pavicevic had no idea and that there were no constructive proposals, that's far from the truth. There are, in most cases we disagree on a large percentage. I just said that for a part of the opposition, otherwise, he is a very dedicated MP, a working MP, and what we should do as representatives of the position, and it is very important for the state itself and parliament to continue to be such constructive proposals, constructive amendments that can only influence legislative solutions and legislation to be accelerated. That's what we're expecting in the next period. Of course, those amendments that focus on certain members of the law or the whole law being deleted, which I definitely believe is not constructive, but all that comes from its knowledge, expertise, information it receives can only help to develop parliamentary dialogue and make legal solutions fully improved and more applicable to citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in the interest of economy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26030	The word is from the People's Messenger Mirko Krlić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26031	Mr. Chairman, I checked in a little while ago, but you didn't see me, so you gave up a replica before that. I highly appreciate and respect your tolerance, but I think you have violated the Rules of Procedure which speak of the work and order of the National Assembly being taken care of primarily by the chairman. There is no legal MP, whether he's a professor or almost a professor, to determine when anyone will chair and ask for a report on how much of your chairmans are limited in time. First of all, it is the work of the President and President of the Assembly. I have already warned the MPs once that this is the high home of the National Assembly, not the Academy of Film, Theatre and acting Arts, located in New Belgrade. He could take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26032	You didn't tell me which member was injured, but good. Would you like to make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Just one small comment, I believe, is that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure and I hold that MPs have the right to ask, is now a question in the course of the debate, or should another occasion be used, that is now another question, but in any case, I do not think there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: Will you give me the replica, as Mr Marinkovic spoke about the opposition's work, can I clarify that? No, really, Janko, I understand your need for a replica, but it was one exchange, even on some dignified level. Why would you find yourself affected by what he said – part of the opposition? I don't think it makes any sense. I really appreciate it. Don't ask me to. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Branka Karavidic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, so our parliamentary group has had two amendments here. One of her colleagues, Biljana Hasanovic, took Korac out earlier. My colleague Ivan Karic and I have a completely different proposal and everything in the hope that the representatives of the government will accept this proposal. In this regard, Article 52 refers to complaints against the work of officials and, in particular, to paragraph 4, where we have provided that the complaint is being changed and said – that the applicant who is not satisfied with the complaint may address the Coordination Commission within 15 days of the date of the decision of Article 3 of this Article. We have also foreseen a new position 5, which reads – how far it finds that the complaints are being made in whole or in part, the Coordination Commission will immediately take the appropriate action from its work round. The draft law does not set a deadline within which the complainant is not satisfied with the first-degree decision under his appeal may address the Coordination Commission. For these reasons, we have amended the position of the fourth member. In this regard, it was also necessary to formulate a new position 5, which obliges the Commission to, if it finds that the complaints are justified, in part or in whole, take appropriate action from its work cycle. My colleague Pavicevic and counterpart Zivkovic have submitted a similar amendment, and at least I am glad that their amendment, which is partly contained in our amendment, is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26034	Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26035	You did not give me the replica, but for the sake of clarification, from your time to time to say that the SDS, ZZS and the ZS among the seven MPs whose amendments were most accepted, six are from the SDS parliamentary group, so this is the answer to Mr Marinkovic. There are no MPs of his group, unfortunately, and few MPs of office. So much for who's serious here and who's serious. We have submitted such an amendment to Article 56. The inspection law. That's what we discussed, Mrs. Widowsky, in principle. So, the sanctions for someone refusing inspection supervision...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26036	I'm sorry, Mr. Veselinovic. Please, you mentioned article 56, is it a mistake?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26038	You made a mistake. So the 54th is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26039	Yeah, 54, sorry. So, in Article 54, point 1 is said: it can be educated, and we have been more explicit and we have asked – it is educated in two positions, in point 1 and in point 2. We wanted as many imperial norms as possible to specify and make it clear to those who are obliged to apply this law that there are no discriminatory norms in the sense – when and so on, but also imperative norms that those who are obliged to comply with the law are obliged to apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26040	Thank you. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26041	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovicu, the esteemed Mrs Udovici and the esteemed guests and guests of the Ministry, I only have one small note before I focus on the content of the amendment, Mr Arsenović. Since I have already said that our 15 amendments have been adopted, and that the smaller number is not, to inform both the MPs and Mrs. Udovici, as well as her associates and associates, that today I will only explain the accepted amendments, and I will ignore this part of the amendment that has not been accepted, so that we do not enter the additional controversy about it. It is a small contribution, and mine and Mr. Zivkovic, to something we call efficiency, since we believe there are good reasons, that we understand, for not accepting, a small number of our amendments. This amendment has been accepted and it is very important that it is accepted because it concerns two very important principles for our actions and in the National Assembly, but also for the actions of the executive authority, gentlemen. We have made a fine statement in the light of this amendment to Article 54(4) – we believe that the amendment is made more up-to-date, and there is always one important principle in politics, which is the principle of efficiency and transparency in the application of this law. Since the government has accepted this argument and this amendment of ours, there is nothing left for me but to say it bravo because this is also accepted as one of the 15 amendments adopted for our debate on this bill today in our Assembly, and I am in agreement here, which is the central political institution in our constitutional system. Once again, let me say to Mr. Arsenovic, the sanctuary of our political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26042	Thank you. The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradic. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26043	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't get your notice right until the end. You said that you agreed that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic and Mr. Becic no longer chaired the two hours. Is this our request for the replacement of the two presidents and has Mr. Vukic decided to replace the president and vice president, the vice president who does not give the opposition to state their views?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26044	When you ask, I'll tell you. So, I just wanted to say that my two-hour presidency didn't come up for intervention, but that's what we agreed today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26045	Is Mrs. Gojkovic no longer president of two hours?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26046	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26047	So there's a chance he'll come back to the presidency again?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26048	Sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26049	Okay. Mr. Chairman, you must know, you've been in the Assembly for a long time, that our parliamentary group is seriously accessing laws, law analysis, amendments. Today, here at this time, the only one from our parliamentary group is sitting and the head of the parliamentary group and the deputy head of the parliamentary group. Today, the amendments were discussed by Mrs Karavidic, Mrs Biljana Hasanovic and Mr Bradic and have been given an argument that this law is not good and that we have offered better solutions. It also concerns this amendment, Mrs. Udovici, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. So, in criminal provisions, penalties for economic operators or natural persons who are doing business for profit gains, in case they refuse inspection supervision, you predict a maximum penalty of 800,000 dinars. We felt, Vice President, that this is not appropriate because there are entrepreneurs or companies who will be paid more to pay the fine than to accept inspection supervision, because they do big jobs and have a great financial interest. In addition, we have requested that in such cases a measure be imposed on the security of the ban on performance until inspection is possible. You in this way, Mrs. Udovici, go, as well as the entire government, to the financial oligarchs in favour of large financial capital that have the opportunity to pay the fines and have the opportunity to avoid the law. Why didn't you accept this request? So, in principle, you did not convince us in your argument that a similar amendment to Mr. Zivkovic was accepted. That's not appropriate because it's a punishment that has nothing to do with this maximum sentence that we foresee and the measure of security of the ban on performance. So, in case the inspector comes to the door and says - good afternoon, I'd like to do inspection, that owner tells him - goodbye, closes his door in front of his nose and he can go home and write him some punishment that he will pay by smiling at because his financial interest is significantly higher than that penalty. So I really don't understand, Minister Udovici, Deputy Prime Minister, which is why you didn't accept this one norm that would introduce more discipline, and by which it wouldn't simply be for inspectors to wipe out the floor. Because in this way, the inspector is once again subject to the possibility of a corrupt operation, and on the other hand there is no mechanism for that controlled subject to suspending the activity until it is possible to carry out surveillance. I don't know what the reason why these criminal provisions didn't provide for stricter penalties, in which the inspection would have mechanisms to suspend, stop illegal acts that are contrary to the law, actions that threaten health, which threaten the lives of citizens, etc. So, you gave mild sentences, and you didn't foresee any security measures. There is no other law that can replace it in this particular case, because it is left to the inspector discretionaryly whether he will reach out to some other measures, type of criminal charges, etc. So this law, the roof law, did not ensure that inspectors had a full mechanism to enforce the law. Once again, it is the inspectors who are to enforce, or follow, the law that we are adopting here in the Assembly. The adoption of the law here in the Assembly, without its implementation, is a wasteful business. We pass laws that, unfortunately, do not apply in practice. I don't understand why this government doesn't see it, why it doesn't see that the gray economy is booming, that illegal activity is flourishing, that corruption is high again, etc. So, this law has given you the opportunity, the distinguished vice president, who may be the only one in this government who deserves some transitional grade, some minus two, so because of everything, because of your colleagues who are working with you and who are inadequately doing their job, you too are unsuccessful, unproductive, and therefore I am surprised to tell you that you have ever accepted to be in the mandate of this government, but now, unfortunately, your credibility with this and this kind of law, which will be the experts who run businesses, business entities, who are set up by a party, very, very simply to play. There are no mechanisms to stop at travel and party management of companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26050	Time. Thank you. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26051	Thank you. I'd like to say that the old Latins have said that it doesn't seem to be the preventive height of the sentence, but rather the certainty of its application, so I think there's room here to apply these sentiments. In fact, through this legal text, we can provide for millions and millions of fines for violating the provisions of this law, but unless the law is implemented in practice, we will achieve nothing. As long as the dominant is afraid of punishment and there is no awareness that the law must be respected for the sake of the welfare of society in general, we will never get out of the dark fairy. For the sake of all this, I believe that the level of punishment is correctly determined, so that this amendment is excessive and unnecessary, noting that if the law is properly applied and with such certain penalties, there is no reason for it not to achieve its objective and achieve its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26052	Thank you. Members of the 56th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26053	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session in this part of the two, so we will see by what time, Mr Arsenovic, the esteemed and respected guest from the Ministry and honored guests, and I have already announced during the debate today that the preparation of this bill, including as far as this member is concerned, has been directed towards seriousness, to expertise, and by accepting this amendment, I think it is being ensured, in addition to the efficiency that I have just forgotten, and a stricter criminal policy. Our proposal was to punish a supervised natural person with a fine of up to 150,000 dinars, and then in the following parts we increased that amount of money that should be paid as some kind of punishment, an entrepreneur of up to 50,000 dinars, a natural person for a violation of the position of 5 to 30,000 dinars. Here I would like to mention one thing that can be very important, I agree with Mrs. Mrdakovic, a member of the SNS, who just said that the urgency in the application of the law is one of the most important things. Of course. So what does the adoption of the law do if we do not show the ability to apply what is contained in the law, to be up-to-date about that application? But I think it is also very important, as Mrs. Mrdakovic called it, the preventive part, that we still apply one approach here that implies a stricter criminal policy, assuming that what will be adopted, as a law, will be consistently applied. With that faith, I've been working in this National Assembly for a whole year, since 16 April last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26054	Members of the 57th amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 59th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 59th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakić, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26055	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, with your team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this amendment, which, I must stress, is now in favour of the entire process of reforming the state and public administration and is now in favour of this policy, when it comes to the management of staff in state institutions, especially when it comes to the Ministry of State Administration and the organizations that are under the patronage of that ministry, implementing a policy that aims to disrupt employees and this new law, I hope, will bring, which we will have here at the plenary session in June, as I have heard. So those who work hard, those who create extra value, they will be rewarded, and those who don't do it, especially by managing the chamber, so part of any category of management, this applies to the steering frame, they will be punished. This is, in fact, the merit of our colleague from Katarina Rakic, the Economic Couscous, who is not there, her idea. Simply, I just want to support her and thank her for the fine from 50,000 to 150,000 increased by 120,000 to 150,000 dinars. We believe that this way, just by managing the ability to lead a more responsible and efficient policy. This will ultimately lead to the fact that the work of inspection services and their control is more transparent and applies to the fact that if the managers do not implement the inspection plan, that there are no particularly justified and exceptional circumstances that prevent it, if they do not publish an inspection plan on their website, do not make up the control lists from their area of inspection, do not apply them and publish them on their website and publish an annual report on their website, I can say freely that we are introducing a system that looks like a corporate management system in the state administration. Once again, I would like to thank my colleague Katarina Rakic, who is not here today at the session so she can say something about this amendment. But we believe that by accepting this amendment, only the Ministry, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we will very, very much speed up this legal solution. They will influence the inspection process and the work of the inspection itself to be more transparent and accessible to both citizens of the Republic of Serbia and businesses. Thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blaža Bradić together. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26056	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 59 regulates infringements of inspection officers and says: "The fines between 50,000 and 150,000 dinars will be fined for the violation of the inspection officer if the inspection is carried out," and then lists four points. We have submitted an amendment to point 1, which says: “Do not carry out an inspection plan without having particularly justified exceptional circumstances to prevent it. ” We suggested that these words be deleted: “There are no particularly justified exceptional circumstances in which it is prevented. ” The amendment, this one of ours, represents an alignment with our amendment that we have submitted to Article 10 in which we have also asked that words be deleted – except when there are particularly justified and exceptional circumstances in which it is prevented. The government, of course, rejected this amendment, since the amendment to Article 10 was also rejected. However, we continue to stand by the reasons which we have stated in addition to the amendment to Article 10 and, in addition to the amendment to Article 59, that these words should be deleted and freed from responsibility in the event of particularly justified, exceptional circumstances. This is what we propose because we believe that this is the way it is formulated in the law, particularly inconclusive, because who it is that determines what very justified circumstances these are. The government did not accept the amendment to Article 10, explaining that there are situations in which it is necessary to leave the possibility that the inspection should not carry out the inspection plan and therefore an exception to the punishment for the case is left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26057	Thank you. Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babic, Ivan Jovanovic. Mr Dejan Radenković, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Arsenović, Mrs Udovici, Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, this is the last amendment we have submitted, which I will present to the MPs and our guests here today, and to the citizens of our Republic, of course, expressing one satisfaction that most of our amendments have been accepted today, and that our proposals have become an integral part of this bill. I have two additional notes that I would like to round up this part of the debate that I'm taking part in today, and these two remarks are actually about objections. One thing, clearly I think we here support the creation of a legal framework for better and more orderly business, but we find it wrong to drag investors by the sleeve and give them subsidies for jobs. We're supposed to do that, so we can adopt such rules here that will ensure that foreign companies are fighting for our market, not that these people, on behalf of those companies that come here, that we're pulling them by the sleeve. The second thing, which was particularly important to me today, precisely because Mrs. Udovici's repositories are concerned with these "dilivers" units, the results delivery unit, because even after today's debate, these results are still covered by one veil of ignorance. We haven't explained what it is here today, we haven't been able to locate it legally. Then it remains, Mrs. Udovici, for one of the next debates, to try to get that veil of ignorance away from these units for the delivery of results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26059	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26060	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with the team, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment proposed by the Cocussus members also refers to criminal provisions and to a measure which increases penalties, but now for the work of inspectors. So, by fines instead of 20 to 90 grand, that range is increasing from 50 to 150 grand for a violation of an inspector or an officer authorized to carry out inspection. We believe that this is a measure which is not excessive and which in any case will increase the efficiency that will in some way reduce the potential problem of the work of these inspectors and the possibility of any corrupt aspect and work, given that very small penalties have been provided, so 20 thousand dinars initially, which in the future will represent maybe 20% or 25% of their monthly earnings. I can't help but look back at the previous speaker, who mentioned me several times today. As for the 'destiver yunite', the World Bank has it, the Canadian Government has it, and tomorrow I will give him the book of Alistair Campbell, which has worked very well on the concept and which will work very well for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26061	The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 60. I'm asking Minister Cora Udovicki to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26062	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26063	Thank you. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Katarina Rakić, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Master Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Professor Vladimir Marinkovic submitted together to the 61st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, the state administration and local self-government have accepted the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 63rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 65th Amendment in the same text was submitted by Aleksandar Senić and together by Marko Djurisic, professor Dr Janko Veslinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26064	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, therefore, Article 65 speaks of the status of inspectors and it reads – an inspector who, on the day of entry into force of this law, does not have the type and degree of education prescribed by this law continues to carry out the duties of inspectors if he passes an inspector's exam within two years of the date of application of this law, which is one year from the date of adoption. We have proposed an amendment to replace these two years with one year and begin to apply by applying this law. We believe that a period of one year is sufficient to resolve the status of inspectors, given that the law starts to apply within one year of the date of entry into force and that the issues in question need to be addressed in this period so that the law can be fully implemented within the last year. Now, this looks like this article was made for someone, because you're saying in the next attitude that those who have seven years of working experience don't need to take an inspector's exam. Then I don't see why anyone would have a three-year term, realistically, for three years to pass one test for an inspector. I think it's too much of a responsibility to have those who don't have the expertise to pass the exam that it takes to perform this function without having the right to do so. Thank you. The amendment in the same text was submitted by Aleksandar Senić and Ambassadors Marko Djurisic, professor Dr Janko Veslinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26065	Thank you, Madam President. Article 66 regulates the conduct of the inspectors' exams and says in point 1 - the inspectors' exams will be conducted within two years of the date of application of this law. We have put the amendment in place so that the word "two" is replaced by "one", and the words after the application are replaced by "degrees in force". We believe that a period of one year for conducting the inspectors' exams is sufficient, given that the law starts to apply within one year of the date of entry into force and that the issues in question need to be addressed during this period so that the law can be applied in full scope over the course of a year. If the inspector's status issue is prolonged by extending the time limit for carrying out the examinations, it shall, in fact, delay the effective application of the law. The amendment shall also be in accordance with the amendment to Article 65. The government has rejected the amendment since the deadline foreseen is appropriate in view of the financial, technical and human resources needed to carry out this examination. We are in the view that the proposal's solution without need and unfounded results in the prolonging of the application of this law and with regard to the passing of the inspectors' exams, especially as the draft law provides for the start of the application of the law within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26066	The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26067	In addition to what is said in the explanation of why the amendment is rejected, I would just like to point out and to make it clear to everyone that the alignment of special procedures and regulations with this law ends only two years after the adoption of this law and that there are 37 inspections today. Today, inspectors carry out their duties in accordance with the current laws and assuming that they are now qualified for this regulation. Therefore, it is about improving and transforming the content and way of doing inspections according to everything this law will change and training inspections accordingly. Some of them will, of course, take training and exams earlier, but expect that all 37 inspections and alignments can be completed with all changes that will end only two years before that deadline, is not realistic. So it actually seems like a big delay, but it's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26068	Thank you. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members and members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakić, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26069	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, Member of the 67th Parliament, is just talking about the work of the Co-ordination Commission and since some three months have come into force, from the date of entry into force of this law, that it should begin to work, the proposal of the MEPs was to form a third position which would have been given to start following the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 2 of the Coordination Commission to carry out the tasks and tasks laid down by this law, the establishment decision and the Rules of Procedure on Labour, which relate to the guidance of the conduct of inspections in inspection of unregistered entities, as well as to the preparation of the application of this law. I thank the Minister for having the understanding and indeed accepted this amendment, because I think it fully defines the work of this committee, which in the previous members has been with a lot of ambiguity among some proposings, which is why it has been rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26070	Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blagoja Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26071	So, Article 67 refers to the establishment of the Coordination Commission and the adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Coordination Commission and he says- The Coordination Commission will be established within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law. Second position – The Co-ordination Commission will bring a Rules of Procedure on its work within a month of the date of its establishment. We suggested that these 3 months, they be 15 days, and the government replied, rejected this amendment with an explanation that the prescribed deadlines were set as real and consistent with other deadlines. We do not understand why it takes 3 months to form a co-ordination committee, it is particularly unclear to connect, to agree on specific laws and to this law with one fact act of forming a Coordination Commission, and I really do not see why this Commission is being implemented, because you probably already know who will be in that coordination committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26072	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working today after 1800 hours. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaža Bradić submitted the amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26073	I thank Madam President, we have submitted an amendment to Article 69 to paragraph 1 and point 4. Article 69 regulates the harmonisation of special laws. With the amendment, we propose a deadline reduction of 12 months for the Ministry to submit to the Commission declarations of conformity of the specific law, a period of 18 months, that the Commission establish a proposal for acts containing the necessary volume of harmonisation and a period of 6 months for the Government to establish amendments to the Law, all for three months. Since this Law begins to apply within 12 months of its entry into force, we believe that it is necessary for its application until that time to comply, and the adoption of amendments to the law, and in that sense we have submitted this amendment. The government has rejected an amendment explaining that the deadline foreseen is appropriate, given financial, technical and human resources, to comply with specific laws with the provisions of this law. We even believe that, together with the draft of this law, all the laws that comply with this law were allowed to enter into the assembly procedure, so that we can simultaneously comply with all the legislation that regulates this matter. However, as this has not been done, we believe it is necessary to shorten those deadlines.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26074	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26075	I just don't understand why you're looking for an acceleration of compliance with the law, which you said was bad?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26076	Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Djurishic, you've wasted your time, so you can't discuss this amendment. So in advance, thank you. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malovic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Dr Blaža Bradić together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new member of 69a be added after the article. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26077	Dear President, we're being prepared here, so we know about when we need to talk to get ready. The last amendment to this law is the addition of a new member to read, according to our proposal - the government is obliged to submit an annual report to the National Assembly on the results of the application of this law. In many laws, we have asked that the government submit an annual report, because the government does not respect the government's labour law, which says a report on the government's work is submitted 60 days before the final account, the submission of the final account. Here's today's April 15th. We have not yet received that report for the past year, and therefore we cannot accept the government's justification for rejecting this amendment, which says that the results of this law will also be seen in this report on the results of the government's work, is there no report on the results of the government. The government does not respect the laws that this congregation adopts and that it sometimes proposes. Here, if you remember, at the end of last year we adopted a budget, where it was delayed with all deadlines, and among other things there was no fiscal strategy that preceded the adoption of the budget. In order for us to be able to discuss the budget, we need to know the government's plans for the next three years, so we only got it at the end of January – a fiscal strategy. So here and here, there's a report on the work of a government that is a liability under Article 36. The Government Act, but it is not submitted to the Assembly, and so we will not know how this law is applied and the various other laws that we have passed in this House, where we have always asked for regular reports of all the laws to be filed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26078	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I feel that this amendment should not be accepted, given that the Government has given a sound rationale, because the government's report includes the application of this law. If each ministry were to submit a report to each law, we would need three congregations to consider all reports of each ministry of each law. I think the amendment is unacceptable, and the government's argument is very acceptable, that it's understandable because it's simply not every law that every ministry can report to the National Assembly. The National Assembly could not consider it, even if we had three members of the National Assembly, to consider it night and day. So I suggest that this amendment not be accepted. Of course I won't vote for that kind of amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-15-0.u26080	Thank you. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Aleksandra Tomic and Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and given that we had previously voted on item 2 of the agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, April 15, 2015, starting at 15.15 p.m. as a day for voting on the remaining three agendas of the Third Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. So we start voting in about 20 minutes. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 139 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft inspection control law to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 against – five abstentions – there are no, three of the 150 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A group of six MPs from the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 144 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs of the Social Democratic Party MPs, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted to the 10th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 148 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 13 MPs from the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic to article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Petrovic submitted the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st amendment, in the same text, MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by a group of six MPs of the Social Democratic League of the Vojvodina League. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 149 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 37. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's Parliament group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 47th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Branka Karavidić and Ivan Karic together submitted the title above the members and Article 48 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 48th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment were submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 52nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic and Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for– four, no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 65th Amendment were tabled by MPs Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, I am putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were tabled by MPs Aleksandar Senic and a group of eight members of the Social Democratic Party MPs, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, I am putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 150 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of eight MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 69a be added after article 69a. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law on inspection control in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – seven abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by four of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a bill on inspection control. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 12 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 13 paragraph 3 of point 5 of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ No. 72/09/52/11 and 55/13) in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – 1 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the Assembly adopted, by majority vote, the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 13(5) of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’ No. 72/09/52/11 and 55/13). We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 11 o'clock and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 85. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – four, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 148 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 11 o'clock and 11 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – four, abstentions – there is no, no – 145 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 17 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – five, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 144 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 17 hours and 9 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – three, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 146 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 17 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – two, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 147 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 18 hours and one minute, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 148 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 18 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – four, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 143 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 18 hours and 51 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – three abstentions – there is no, there is no – 144 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 19 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27 and in connection with article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – four, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 143 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 19 hours and 14 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 146 of the total attendance of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babić, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 19 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 145 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 19 hours and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – two, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 144 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 19 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – two, abstentions – there is no, there is no – 145 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the abovementioned Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 20 hours and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote – 144 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 7 April 2015, at 24 hours, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – three, abstentions – there is no, no vote – 141 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 11 o'clock and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – two, abstention – one, did not vote – 140 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 11 o'clock and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, the abstention – there is no, 144 of the total of the 149 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 11 o'clock and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 12 hours and 1 minute, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 141 of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 12 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to violations of members 104 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no, 145 of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 13 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, abstention – there is no, 142 of the total of 148 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 13 hours and 26 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – two, abstentions – there are no, 142 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 14 hours and 32 minutes, pointed to injuries of Article 27 and Article 109(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, abstention – there is no, 142 of the total of 148 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 15 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 104, 107 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 143 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 16 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 104 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 141 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 16 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 140 of the total of 146 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 17 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – there is no, 142 of the total of 146 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 17 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 139 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Alexander Jerkov's National MP, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 18 hours and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 140 of the total of 145 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 19 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 135 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 19 hours and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 136 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 21 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, abstention – there is no, 136 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 9 April 2015, at 21 hours and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the third session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
