ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28124	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose, in accordance with Article 155. Rules of Procedure, to postpone the start of this session, since the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has not delivered its opinion. I wanted to attend this committee this morning. We waited 15 minutes for the board president, he didn't show up. It is possible that there will be a session of the Committee in the meantime, so please delay the start of this session until we have the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28125	Thank you. Let me check with the deputy secretary when we can get the report. You're right, MP. We have a break from 20 minutes to 10.30 hours to get reports. Thank you. [[after breaks]] According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure are attended by Dr Srdjan Verbić, Prof. Zoran Lužanin and Zoran Dragojevic, from the Institute for Intellectual Property. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, and have received a report from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments made. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Blažje Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, in Article 7, we have proposed that two amendments be made. It means that the words “public order and morals” are replaced by the words: “mandatory regulations, public order and good customs”, as well as the words “public order and accepted moral principles” are replaced by the words “forced regulations, public order and good practices”. What was the reason? We simply believe that the formulation that we have proposed is in line with the laws of Serbia, above all with the Law on Liaison and that the way we have proposed to change these words is adapted to our legal system. The government has rejected our amendment, explaining that the terms mentioned are in accordance with Article 8. The 1998 European Parliament and the 1998 Council of Ministers. That would be good, if we were to start changing terms and harmonize with those terms that exist in Europe, but then we think that we need to start with amendments and additions to other laws, so also the Law on Liaison and other laws. Of course, it's not the minister's job here today, but it is the government's business. So I ask the Minister to present this problem to the Government, to move forward with the harmonisation of our legislation, so that we do not have in one law on practically the same matter one term and one definition, and in other laws on other terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28128	Thank you. The word has Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28129	It is certainly necessary to discuss whether this term should be changed in some other laws, but I would just like to point out that the same term – public order and morality, we also have in other laws that regulate rights, such as the Law on patents, the Law on trade marks, the Code on Geographical Origin, so that it is not the only place in the Law on the Protection of Industrial Design on which the term ‘public order and morality’ appears. Not only because of its agreement with the EU directive, but also because of its agreement with all other laws that regulate similar rights, it should remain this term until we find a solution that would be more comprehensive and, if indeed, it would be meaningful to change in all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28130	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Borislav Stefanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 7th amendment. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28131	Dear presidents, colleagues and colleagues, here's something we discussed in the discussion in principle. In fact, Article 7 of the proposed law amends Article 8 of the basic law, and it is that we now introduce in our proposal the terms that something may be contrary to public order and morality. Our proposal is that words are added after a proposed member of the law, i.e. to add another position that will actually say that the government will be closer to regulating the conditions under which the decision under Article 4 is taken. It's about deciding if something is contrary to the public order and generally accepted moral principles. The reason why we think and believe that this should be further arranged is that there really is no universal definition of what is generally accepted moral principle. It is a particularly problematic definition of whether something is contrary or in line with the public order, and that is, before we really talked about this amendment, both on committees and in the debate in principle, it has been proved that none of us can actually offer and explain what would be concrete examples when it is decided that something is not in line with accepted moral principles, and that is an even greater mystery which is the authority that will decide whether something is in line with accepted moral principles and whether something is in line with the public order? It is our proposal that the Government should, within some time, assume that if this amendment is accepted, that other members of the law should be changed and a deadline within which the Government should adopt such an act that is closer to the regulation of who is the decision-making authority, how it will be decided and what criteria it will be. But it's nothing that can't be corrected and we don't think it's necessary, but to add this attitude to this member of the proposed law because it's really not accepting that the closer order is this delicate and, above all, an individual category, we think it can lead to new abuses and that someone simply doesn't want to register something, protect it as an industrial design.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28132	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28133	Thank you, Madam President of the Assembly. As Mrs. Alexandra Jerkov said, it is just a lack of criteria. It is something that in a certain way puts the shadow of the minister's intention that this bill actually be a proposal that is in line with EU legislation. The lack of criteria is the chronic pain of our society. Every day we have a chance to see what happens in Serbian society when there are no criteria, when something that's been considered one thing for decades, just in one day, turns around and becomes something completely different. You say you want to bring standards and principles into line with EU legislation, but the moral principles you are trying to introduce into your proposal to amend and supplement the law do not constitute a consensus when it comes to the moral principles of EU societies. For simple reasons, we spoke in principle, even then you did not answer to Mrs Jerkov or Mr Mark Đurišić or Vladimir Pavić or many who asked you a simple question. Academic honesty is a moral principle, so it is not respected in Serbia as respected in the EU. It's one of the things you need as minister to agree. What are moral principles in Serbia, what in the peoples or societies of Europe? If you consider that something you may not personally consider important for Serbian society, that you do not view it as a moral principle at all acceptable and it is called academic honesty, then this law is completely pointless from the point of view of compliance with EU legislation and values and EU flows. It's the basic regret we've had, and for that reason we've proposed this amendment. We think that even though you don't listen to the MPs as they speak of such an important topic regarding your ministry and your work in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will not give up fighting for clear criteria, for bodies that would possibly decide on this matter. We ask you to show a minimum of understanding for this area and try to at least when it's a matter of moral principles to give, if you're not already in other things, your own personal contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28134	The word has Minister Verbic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28135	In addition to this explanation of why the amendment is not accepted, I just want to point out what the rejection of the design proposal seems to be in practice because it violates the legal order and morality. For the last 15 years, there has been no proposed design that has been rejected for this reason. It would be very good if we had more suggestions, so if there really was a practical need for such a criterion, of course not to argue that we needed a criterion, we needed a criterion, but at this point there is a solution. So every decision by the Institute of Intellectual Property has the possibility of appeal to the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28136	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28137	Thank you, Madam President. I welcome the attitude and call for the amendment not to be accepted. We discussed this on the board today, and we discussed this issue during the debate in principle. To repeat once again, I thank the ministry for giving another further explanation during this debate today, but not to be heard today for the first time, it is among other things in the material that we have received for the purpose of answering. It stands nice black on white, an organ responsible for intellectual property affairs. It's nothing new, it's an absolutely standard, regular, but established procedure, it's an address where you get an answer to the question of whether or not they are respected standards relating to accepted moral principles, which I assume is still an open question for some colleagues. It's absolutely nothing new. This formulation, we talked about it in principle, but I'm afraid it didn't seem to have anyone to hear it, but it was an integral part of this law that we want to change with amendments and supplements. It's been since 2009, and it's nothing new. We also heard today, not only in this law, but in laws that regulate related issues, a law dealing with trade marks or geographical origin or patents, all of these are the laws of order 2009, 2010, 2011. The same wording is being used everywhere and nothing has been disputed, probably for those who back then. To put that aside, these are laws that have been applied and if no problems have arisen so far, why today would this be as controversial as a finding that is once again nothing new, only changed the order of words and a place where a certain syntagma appears in a legal solution. In addition, it is once again just one to one, identical to what we have received as a proposal to bring the legal text into line by our friends and partners from Europe. So it has absolutely nothing to do with some issues that are trying to impose themselves as a topic today, that academic, as it were, honesty, not only isn't the subject, but it has nothing to do with this. Although listening to this debate today, I have to ask myself, are those who ask a certain question themselves, one, to be familiar with what imposes as a subject, or two, that I am a good example of a standard that wants to impose? I'm asking, I'm more of a myself when I'm listening to this today. So let's face it, let's just get this through to the end today in a way that's fitting, without a chamber, we're opening a wide political debate about something that's really simple, technical and essentially very clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28138	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28139	I've already pointed to the problems of this law, inconsistencies. It is a bad practice for EU directives to be misapplied and to serve as an excuse for bad laws. In the principle debate, it's already highlighted what the flaws are, so I wouldn't repeat it today. That's when I was talking about Article 9, I asked the Minister a question, I didn't get an answer, so I'm gonna try that again. The amendments to the law of Article 9 are deleted by the last three members who read – the industrial design that represents, or contains, a person's character can only be protected with the express consent of that person. Next – a design that represents or contains a dead person's character can only be protected after the consent of his parents, spouse and children. The third – industrial design that represents, i.e. the character of the historical or other deceased celebrities can be protected with the permission of the competent authority and the consent of its relatives until the third degree of relation. By erasing these three attitudes, there are conditions for mass abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28140	Ambassador, it's not that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28141	And what is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28142	To Article 9, which was accepted by the board, but not the one you quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28143	That's the amendment, because it changes the text and throws this out of the text. Look a little bit better, I'm in the team. That's where you don't see the original text of the existing law and these three attitudes are erased from it, that's my remark. I'm asking -- on what grounds will someone be able to protect their character, the character of their deceased relative, or how will the state be able to protect a celebrity character if we delete these three members? There is hardly a directive of the EU, of the European Commission or of any body, anywhere, whether it is related to morality, to public order or to any other way of definition or any value court. Is this eradicating the fact that someone pressured the Ministry, the Minister, the Government, as was the case with textbooks, or is there something else to mediate it? Regardless, and I'm sure, the good intentions of Minister Verbic, I think he's in the wrong place at the wrong time. The mud he entered or must clean himself, which is not possible, or will be in that mud along with everyone else or should come out of that mud as soon as possible to save the bar cheek. I invite him to resign. After all that has happened to him, the people of his ministry who have been physically attacked, the lady who is threatened, who is not feeling safe and is not alone, are all the reasons why the honorable people leave the government of Alexander Vukic and return to their jobs or continue their political career by really fighting for maximum moral values and preserving public order according to EU directives, morals and honors. Now, we have a vision of respect for European standards. We have a vision of a desire to go to the EU. We have a vision of the desire to obey the laws and we have a vision of the desire to do anything useful, and it's covered by the fact that after a year we don't know who's responsible for 57 people who died in the floods, that after two months we don't know who's responsible for the helicopter crash, that we have no information about anything that has anything to do with the daily...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28144	Ambassador, we will now move on to the agenda, that is, this law. You convinced me, but now you don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28145	How?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28146	You are not talking about the amendment to Article 9 or the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28147	I'm talking, you've put the morale and the public order into this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28148	I didn't put anything on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28149	Not you personally, of course, but most political ones. This is the bill of law submitted by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28150	We're talking details. When it's in principle, almost everything is allowed. Almost.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28151	In particular, Article 9 mentions everything I'm talking about. So I call on the minister to stop defending himself with silence and to say that he will be a protected figure of the living citizen of Serbia, the deceased or the late celebrities, which is covered by amendments to Article 9 which reduces, or destroys, their protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28152	Thank you. I gave you back 15 seconds, I think it's correct. National MP Marjan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28153	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that my fellow farmer's amendment be not accepted, for the next reason, because...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28154	It's a committee amendment that's been accepted. A committee amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28155	I suggest you accept...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28156	My colleague just intervened.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28157	... The amendment of the Committee, but not to accept the explanation of my fellow vineyard for the simple reason he spoke of morality. You have to wait first. Natasa Micic, when she introduced the state of emergency, said that the value system in Serbia cannot be a jeep and a gun. After that, my fellow farmer became prime minister. After the state of emergency, he became prime minister, and then we got the prime minister with a jeep and a gun with multiple pieces. So, if someone's talking about morality, then they should go first. Someone who was prime minister, someone who became prime minister after introducing the state of emergency, where the state of emergency was introduced even for moral reasons where the acting president, the president of Natasa Micic's assembly, explained that it was enough that the main value in Serbia was a jeep and a gun. The man who had both of them in more than one piece talked here today about moral...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28158	MP, please discuss industrial design, if possible in this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28159	Madam President of the Assembly, I think he was talking about moral values, about character and work for almost 10 minutes, and you didn't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28160	No, he had five minutes at his disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28161	Here's what my colleague used to say. So, I have nothing against the amendment, I have an argument because he asked that the Committee's amendment be rejected, and I ask that what he asked for be rejected, because the argument says he was talking about protecting the character and the act. Here's what I suggest is that we protect the character, the actions and the misdeeds of my fellow winemaker, the vincillator, everything with a jeep and a gun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28162	Okay. I don't know who Amadeus is. Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted the 26th Amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted to Article 31 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee in charge, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the national parliaments Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr Blažje Bradić together. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I expected you to say at least one sentence on the amendments to the article. 9 and 31 proposed by the Committee for the reasons that these amendments are due to the mistake you made when you wrote the law. So in Article 9, you have provided for a proposal to amend and supplement the Law that there are points 1a,b,v,g,d, and in Article 31 you are then referring to points 1jj. And so on. We are our amendment to Article 31, which you and the Committee have refused to determine that your mistake. You have corrected the error, i.e. by adopting the Committee's amendment to Article 9 and Article 31. The error was corrected, but it was your turn to say – sorry we made a mistake, we miscounted the points, now we've put a nice number in Article 9 points 1 to 7, in Article 31 we call for the right points and we've corrected the error. But you didn't do it and it's in line with the way this government works. So you know everything best, you don't listen to anyone, you don't read anything, no rules apply to you. That the rules apply, let's say the rules of the single methodological rules that exist under which Article 47 speaks - if more than half of the members of the basic law are amended, that is to say, a new regulation should be adopted, Minister. I believe you don't know that. There's someone in your ministry who should know. Today we adopt amendments and additions to the law. The basic law, which has 84 members, amendments and additions to the law, has 53 members. We're changing more than half the law. To comply with the rules, you had to send us a new law on December 30, 2014, not amendments and amendments to the law, because when you do changes and supplements, then you can also be stolen from such mistakes. You're changing something in some members, something's staying, something's not staying. There's a problem. I repeat, it is good that the problem is corrected, but it is a bad approach and the approach is in line with the work and manner of work of this government. So we ask no one, we know everything best, and we do what we want. That's bad. That's bad, and that's why we're against this government and this majority and this way of working. I was waiting for you to say a word when a member of the 9th Law, or when the amendment was adopted, was discussed on the amendment to Article 9 and on Article 31. The board. You haven't said a single word that you've corrected a mistake, a mistake that we've pointed out to you by submitting our amendment. Our amendment now, following the adoption of the amendment of the Committee, is pointless and of course cannot be adopted, because we are talking about eradicating points 1d and 1d which no longer exist in the bill, or will not exist if this amendment is adopted. But you didn't do it, you sent a law here for four and a half months sitting in a procedure and no one saw that mistake. We have seen it in these two days, from the principle debate to today, corrected, but without anyone saying – sorry, we have made a mistake and thank you for pointing that mistake to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28164	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28165	Thank you, Madam President. So, I would like to agree with a few of the notes tabled by my fellow amendment promoters. First, that this technical, above all purely technical matter, which has been subdued in the text, is corrected by the amendment of the Committee, that is, the fact. Secondly, I agree that after this correction, what is proposed by the amendment proposed by the colleagues has been devoid of any meaning. So I guess he doesn't even insist on adoption anymore, nor would it make sense to do that. However, I also call on fellow Members of the Commission, but also on all others not to fail to notice that the way in which this technical issue has been resolved, through the committee amendment and through the agreement of the Ministry, or through their adoption of this amendment, is far better than what has been proposed by this amendment that we are discussing now. So, through the committee amendment, we've found, I believe, we'll agree, better, a better quality solution. Here I use the opportunity to agree on one more question with a respected colleague who spoke earlier, this is indeed done in the manner of the government's work, and this means not only in a way to correct everything that was bad or not good enough in a law that had been passed by others before, but it is evident in a way that is far more quality than anything that you are able to do today and to propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28166	The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted the amendment to Article 49. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the committee responsible. The Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee finds the amendment in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branko Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28167	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, Article 51, our amendment is to add a new position that reads – the Government submits to the National Assembly through the competent committee an annual report on the effects of the application of this law. Of course, according to its custom, the government did not accept this amendment. It's not the first time, and unfortunately, I believe, it's not the last time that the government has not accepted our amendment, which requires a legal obligation for the government to deliver a report to the Parliament through the competent committee on the effects of the law. Every time, more or less, the reason for rejection is the same. It calls for a provision of the Law on Government that says that at the request of the National Assembly of Government and each of its members are obliged to submit a report on their work, the National Assembly, that means some decision by the majority. Such decisions for this year and a half or a little more than a year have been gone and I have some impression that there will never be, as the Government and ministers do not respect the obligation of the Rules of Procedure, though, to answer within 15 days on parliamentary matters, so we have here the fact that we are waiting for an answer for a few months, and sometimes we never get it. That's why we insist on any laws, amendments and additions to laws, or the introduction of new laws, to introduce this obligation, because that way we can follow the course of law enforcement and that we may react in time. You said here in an explanation that the government and every member of it are obliged to deliver to the National Assembly the report and the data needed to discuss issues related to the work of the Government or its member. I say again, the government does not respect it and the law, does not answer MPs' questions within a time limit, or is late with a deadline or does not respect that deadline. If there were such provisions in the laws we might find in time for some laws not to be implemented, that there was a delay that averaged 944 days in the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of sublegal acts, maybe they would have stopped some of the situations we had here in the past when we passed the laws, because it threatened those deadlines to expire and that they wouldn't be able to apply the law. If we had such a provision, we might see in time or early that certain provisions of the law are not good enough, that the law cannot be applied, that something needs to be changed, which was also the reason for the amendments and additions of this law, as you say. Practice has shown since 2009, when this law was passed, that some solutions are not precise enough and that it was therefore necessary to implement amendments and amendments to the law. If we had that report, maybe it shouldn't take us six years to wait for it, but it might have happened sooner. I call, regardless of the government's position, the parliamentary majority to accept this amendment so that we, as legislators, can carry out our control function under the Constitution, to know in what way the laws are being implemented, to know whether the ministers have done their part of the work in respect of the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts, rather than to conduct discussions here on how certain laws are wonderful, wonderful, how they will not know how to resolve matters, and then the sublegal acts that are foreseen to be passed are not practically impossible to enforce the law, such as the Alertrs Act, where there was a three-month deadline for the two regulations to be passed. That deadline expired on March 5th, and only one of the two regulations was passed. Practically, the law will not be able to apply from June 5th, as the internal organisation rule on the alarm procedure has not been passed, it has not been brought by the Ministry. That is why I call on Members of Parliament, fellow ruling majority to accept this amendment, regardless of the government's negative position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28168	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28169	Thank you, Madam President. I'm listening to the explanation of the esteemed colleagues, the amendment promoter, and I can't get rid of the impression that I just acquired, when listening to the reasons of the same proposings on the subject of amendments to Article 31. One interesting situation is, you know, when we discussed those proposals to change the moral principles, agree and so forth, we talked about, those solutions were already part of some other laws. I can only say, when one of them advertises, today brings us into an interesting situation that can be led under that – now I won't do it the way I want to. It's not exactly the same situation right now, but it's similar, and I'll tell you why. So, once again, the arguments of the promoter that we just heard on the subject of amendments to Article 31, words specifically – sorry and we were wrong. Why do I mention them? Because I don't remember, and if I'm wrong, if I'm wrong, may the amendment promoters of this kind of thing that they're proposing right now on this law, but they've been proposing some other laws for some time in this room, and they've been enforcing the laws they've been making. You know I don't talk about some of the past, but this is a very interesting question. Do we want what we didn't want today? Have we learned anything and perhaps had the need to apologize for some mistake, as we invite others? Let's not be the most important message today, to remind you of the words we've already exchanged in this room, which we exchanged with the amendment's promoters and the committee's session this morning. It is not this type of obligation on the effects of law enforcement achieved today and will not be introduced for the first time by accepting this amendment or by such an amendment to any law. This type of obligation, therefore, to provide certain information and to provide notifications that the National Assembly considers relevant already exists. And that, among other things, stands in the explanation that we got from the government. So, if the motionors consulted the Government Act, and concluded that there was something incorrect here, that the members of the 36th and 39th of that law were not adequately cited, I would understand that as the basis for further discussion. But, if they are not, to repeat once again, these mechanisms already exist, these mechanisms can be used and nothing prevents any distinguished fellow promoters, but no other MP from using them, including when it comes time for regular information on the work of the Government at some point to exercise their right as MPs to ask questions about any segment of work. Among other things, why wouldn't that be a question about the effects of applying any law, including this one? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28170	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28171	I would like to stress that the very idea of reporting on the effects of the application of any law, of course, is desirable. There should be reports of effects. However, in this amendment, we have too many general reports on the effects of law enforcement, and we do not know whether it is financial effects or any other. It's not clear who's really supposed to be dealing with it. If they are financial effects, and it seems to me that this should be the case with the Industrial Design Protection Act, that's exactly what the main effect should be, we can't actually get to that data easily and we shouldn't come to it. Note that persons who protect industrial design do so for their business and professional reasons. They don't want to show what the effects of protecting their industrial design are. That's not something the Treasury should be dealing with, for example. They should determine the effects per budget, but the main effects of the laws we make should be visible in the real sector. Any ministry should not be dealing with this problem, but certainly the Government will respond to each of these initiatives with a report from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28172	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28173	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, besides financials, there are other effects of law enforcement. What I was talking about, among other things, is that this law, for example, implies a period of four months from the date of entry into force for the adoption of sublegal documents. I'd like to know whether these documents were brought or not, when the four months have passed, and that the committee responsible has been carried out once a year, about the effects, about how the law was implemented, whether everything provided for in the deadlines laid down by the law was done, whether certain shortcomings were observed and whether something should be changed. It is an idea to submit such reports, because then in one systematic way we MPs could follow law enforcement, not just financial effects, but everything else. We don't have a chance like this. So it's hard to follow everything and how the laws that this assembly is making are implemented, and that's why we think that the introduction of such an institute into all the laws is good. Was that in the past, as fellow Orlic used to say? No, but we think today we should and we can do better than we used to, until 2012 and by 2005/2006. Whatever time you want to choose, let's finally move forward. So let's not look back, let's look forward. Why do we insist on a legal obligation? It is constantly said that the government will respond if MPs ask. Well, the government doesn't answer, the prime minister doesn't answer, and the ministers don't answer when we ask a specific question. We're looking for answers for certain things, and we're not getting answers. Obviously, the obligation from the Rules of Procedure is not enough to ensure that the prime minister and government ministers respond. That's why we're looking, and we're going to be persistent about making a commitment in the law, because it's our hope that the government and the ministers wouldn't be able to avoid an answer to one of these standards. I can understand the government's position, it's easier this way, but I call on fellow MPs to strengthen parliament and the control role of parliament to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28174	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Verbic and the Honored Guests, above all from the Ministry of Education, I have now come to try to support a sort of argumentation of the position expressed by our fellow MP Marko Djurisic on the amendment, which, among other MPs, was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I think Mr. Djurisic made a very good argument about the content of this amendment. I listened carefully now to Minister Verbic's reply. Minister Verbic has now called for the reasons of the amendments and the contents of the amendment itself to be too general and, due to a lack of direction towards more precise provisions, is unable to accept the content of the amendment. It is essential, gentlemen, that we remind ourselves here today, as well as the Minister of Education, Mr. Verbic, that it always comes from some principles, always comes from some principles. Dear President, here you are to tell Mr Verbić that even in our Constitution, when we open it, the first chapter says - the principles of the Constitution. Even in the law, you can find some sort of general definition. I believe that this approach, which implies that something that is universal cannot be accepted, cannot be a good argument. It also automatically associated me with the action of the Minister of Education, Mr Verbic, on our discussions here and on academic honesty, where a general principle, such as academic honesty, Minister Verbic in dialogue and with MPs calls selling illusions, saying that selling an illusion is when we want to introduce a general principle into some law. Well, I can't, gentlemen and Minister Verbic, be selling illusions. So we go from principle. As we move from the principle of rule of law in the system of higher education, Mr. Verbic, we must start with academic honesty. I can't understand a minister of education who calls one so high a principle, such as the principle of academic honesty, by selling illusions. It is because of his actions and because of the actions of this majority here that we have received one reproof from the European Parliament, President-in-Office Mrs Gojkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28176	Dear MP, please speak of a specific amendment concerning the need to submit an annual report on the effects of the application of this Industrial Design Act, because we will get a warning from the same Parliament that everything and everything is being said in our house, just not about the laws we have on the agenda. I'm trying to stop it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28177	No, I just want to compare two cases, two images that are, I mean here comparable, respected presidents. I know that you listen carefully to our discussions and the minister said that he could not respect Mr Đurisic's argument, because of the too much community he found in the content of the amendment, and then I linked it to one approach by Minister Verbic, on the other topic when he said it again – it is too general for one other principle of academic integrity. Dear President, I have suggested here that you, as president of the National Assembly, suggest to Minister Verbić that we always have to start from some principles, including in this law, and as we do in the Constitution from the first chapter, these are the principles of the Constitution, and in the laws we should go from the principle, from the principle, etc. I would ask the Minister here to consider the integrity and authority of a minister, especially the Minister of Education, because, respecting the Presidents of the National Assembly, on the agenda of this session of the National Assembly, the integrity and authority of the Minister of Education have been degraded, because contrary to his opinion and his will, one law which he has prepared has been removed by someone's orders. I ask him to answer us - by whose order was this done, Mr Verbic? Are you under Mr Babic's orders, for example? here, is it by order of Mr. Vukic, and it is certain that it was not by order of Mrs. Gojkovic, because Mrs. Gojkovic, she has sent us a regular session session with the proposed agenda points. I would like to ask President Gojkovic, Minister Verbic, that as is the order in our National Assembly now answers this last question – who ordered it, Mr Verbic? I ask him to respect the argument that I have offered and Mr. Djurisic for this amendment? Thank you, dear President Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28178	Thank you. The word has Minister Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28179	So now after this discussion, I'm a little bit more clear on what the content in the amendment was, as regards the annual report on the effects of the law. As far as I can tell, what's primary and what you expect from the government is a report on law enforcement. I'm not really undermining it, if that was my intention, it was supposed to be in the proposed amendment. When we talk about implementation, I must say that so far all the sublaws for implementing laws in the area of industrial property have been passed in time and that the Institute of Intellectual Property reports on its work every three months submitted to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that it is no secret and indeed no National Assembly can at any time receive information. Since some of the MPs are very interested in what is going on about academic integrity, I just want to announce a law on scientific and research activity that has just entered a public debate, which forms a Committee on Scientific Integrity, and which according to this draft of the law has quite a lot of powers to go to so far to take away calls, to abolish project financing, and I think that this is all an integral part of a broader picture concerning scientific and research work. So that's what it's all about, and you'll see that bill soon enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28180	Thank you. Ambassador, you've been held accountable. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Not to the end. Until the end when the law is on the agenda. So, as far as industrial design is concerned, and beyond, you've got the answer. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28181	In order for one institution to be appreciated, respected, respected in one society, it is necessary for all its functions to be consumed in full capacity. Two dominants in the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in my humble opinion, are the legislative and control role. It is legislative, of course, more dominant because we are more discussing the bill's proposals, but it is not necessary and must not control Parliament's role to forget. I've been a MP since 2008. There are colleagues and colleagues here with a much longer parliamentary standing. In 2011, when a survey came which of course did not get its full role and all the necessary light showed that only 3% of the people in Serbia believe that parliament is not corrupt. In 2011, just over 34% of Serbian citizens believed that parliament and all of us were individually, that we were extremely corrupt. It was frustrating to go to work every morning, and then I counted my neighbors I met that day, one, two, so this third neighbor who thinks I'm corrupt, but she thinks that every single one of you is corrupt, no matter how you're bowing your head. Those who head off now say – why is the control role not used in a much stronger capacity? And why is it that when you brought up only 3% of the people in Serbia believe that the National Assembly is not corrupt, then why didn't you do the job? Why didn't you say -- well, this Rules of Procedure that we presented in 2009 as a democratic step, as the best thing that could have been done and entered into our Assembly, why didn't you then consider the control role towards the government being stronger. You didn't, because it didn't suit you. You were not allowed to invite Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic to come to the National Assembly. You're not because they were the Most High. You are not because in four years, the government of Boris Tadic, in which he was both Minister and Prime Minister and each individual MP, seven times in four years, came to answer questions. Seven times for the last 48 Thursdays of the month. A little before the amendment was proposed, I heard a kind of confession. The confession and only in that form of recognition could I consider accepting such an amendment. If the amendment promoter had stood up and said and confessed – we did and we wrote a bad Rules of Procedure, we didn't introduce, we didn't know, we didn't want to. And a second confession, because Mr. Orlic is right, when he said that no law written by DS, in any aggregate state, because unlike accepting any aggregate state, they transfer responsibility to the other. No law, and dozens and hundreds of laws were passed from 2008 to 2012. No law has its own member to provide for this control role and report to the National Assembly. And why is it hard for the amendment promoter to get up and say -- sorry, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we didn't know, we didn't know, and I would add one more thing, we didn't want anything to be controlled. Well, only then, only in that way, can we talk about democratic frameworks and democratically with the recognition of mistakes, and not with pointing fingers at what you didn't know and knew and didn't have the will to do. The law is not read in that part, and I am glad that my colleagues are having fun talking about this amendment, but I would instruct them that this law, and none else, is read only from member to member, to read and explain. But also to read a statement of compliance with EU regulations, 63 sides of the law. See, gentlemen, the amendment to the 63rd page of the law, the draft law - in line with EU standards. Has one single gesture shown that this law, proposed as well as all those adopted in the previous year, was not in line with EU standards? Is that what you want us to get out of that road? You might want to, but we're not going to do it, or you might want to introduce new norms, or even the EU to show how you should and what you should do, that you're smarter than the rest of the world, that when you had the chance to apply it, you didn't apply it? Is there one single argument that something in this law has been done wrong and that the Venice Commission, that other people from the EU, friends and associates of this country, have said that something was wrong in this law? No, it's not. Where's your parallel right? Where in some other legislation is such a thing prescribed and something like that binding? I didn't hear that as an argument. There's no argument. But if there was, why didn't you apply it when you wrote the laws? And then you were blind, and then you weren't, then you were thinking about white sheets, then you were thinking about other political options. Now, that kind of variable moment I will -- I won't, so some conditions apply to us when we're in power, and others when we're not in power, well, when we're in power, then we know everything right and right, and when we are, we're not going to apply it, because St. Cvetkovic and modern saint Tadic were not allowed to ask or mention it, let alone see it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Congratulation is shown by the government being accused of making a law on public notebooks and that a public notary earned 160,000 euros in a month, 180,000 euros, but other than a naked charge far from congratulation we didn't get the name and last name of who that man is. We've been asking for months who accused him, who said that. We've been asking him for months - who is it? No answer, no honesty. There is no honesty when the prime minister's brother, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, is accused of a thing that has been proven not to be involved, of a matter that is seen to be a matter of crime, not of congratulatory people such as Andrej and Aleksandar Vukic. Those who were the loudest here, we didn't get, we didn't resign from the seat of the MP, we didn't get any ordinary ones – I'm sorry, I was wrong, I said it out of political hatred. We didn't get anything and those people to tell us about honesty. These, those who brought their integrity to the shoulders with jeeps and guns as Mr. Marijan Risticevic spoke, those who, not to the elbows, put their hands on public finances by raising vineyards, building squares, buying "old timers", to speak of honesty, and are not ready to say one common sorry to the Vucic family, sorry to this parliament and most importantly apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for lying and misleading. They have no right to speak of honesty. This law, which changes something bad that was done six or seven years ago, has been done, characterised by EU values whose full membership I believe we are going as a state and I believe that these steps will become more and more secure and faster. With no single gesture, no single member has been done anything against the rules and obtained by parallel law, but not against EU rules and most importantly, only for the sake of obtaining citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28182	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. ) (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I answer the word. ) Mr. Djurisic, you have the right to reply and you will get the word, and Mr. Pavicevic, on what basis do you have? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Based on Article 104, legally on replica. Did anyone mention you? I'm not, only if you didn't recognize yourself in the vineyard... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Yes. )......................................................................................................... But you can't replicate there, Mr. Pavicevic, you're not a parliamentary group. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28183	Thank you, Chairman. I'm used to this kind of debate, but I think in one way I'm glad we can't hear any serious argument when we're proposing to move forward, not just look back on what happened, and that someone's accusing himself of how it used to be and then say it – and what you didn't, I don't know what you did then and then? It is one of the worst arguments in the political debate and I am glad when it is the only argument that can be used. What also pleases me is the fact that then that argument to strengthen itself is not telling the truth. False data is used, it's been said about 48 months when someone was supposed to come and answer MPs' questions, so he's only done it seven times, so it's about Your Majesty, I don't know if it's about celebratoryness, purposefulness, excessness or whatever? So we have the fact that at 13 p.m. in the term of office of this government, the government has come to answer to the MPs twice. This is the current situation, a situation that is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, as it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure to wait for the government and ministers' answers in a few months. I repeat, that's why we've been looking for these changes and additions to the law. With no story of 2008, 2009, 2010 insults, you can't replace it. So bring the prime minister here to answer the question of MPs, bring the prime minister to answer the questions of MPs in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28184	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word has the head of the SNS parliamentary group, a two-minute replica, Zoran Babic (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Then I have the right to the replica. [[Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Why the replica? How's the replica? Did I say one word?)]] You mentioned the prime minister, you mentioned the government. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Let the minister speak then.) Mr. Granny, I'm being challenged by the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28185	Mr. Becic, when you calm Mr. Djurisic, who receives panic and anger attacks when the SNS MPs speak, I will be very happy to speak to the Rules of Procedure for mentioning the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and the President of the SNS, whose honor and pride I belong to and I will say no matter how much this has caused Mr. Djurisic's panic and anger.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28186	Mr. Babiću, Mr. Djurisic as head of the parliamentary group knows very well that you are right. Here, you have two minutes, come in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28187	Thank you, Mr. Becic. The only thing I can agree with the previous speaker is one word, an insult to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, an insult to Serbia was the government of Boris Tadic and the period from 2008 to 2012. It's the only insult and word that can describe the effects of the government's work that left 400,000 people out of work. The only word is an insult to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it can show the government of Boris Tadic, who has raised public debt twice, which has raised the unemployment rate for the double, which has put us in charge. She failed, which promised 1000 euros only to win Boris Tadic in the election, which was ready for anything and everything just for the sake of a naked survival in power. Strange mathematics the previous speaker tried to implement and say that in four years, the government of Boris Tadic from 2008 to 2012, there were no 48 last Thursdays in the month, but what was it? Was it only seven, how many times did you come to Parliament to answer questions? It is not a strong argument for you that this law is in line with EU standards. Is that what those speakers were saying when they were on occasion giving up the European path of Serbia? Tell him to get out of Boris Tadic and say he doesn't want to go to Europe, he wants to know where. If not enough, page 63. - compliance with EU standards, if there is not enough argument to ask you - give a parallel right where such a thing is made, what is the argument? But it's just not an argument for you reminding me of everything you've been doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28188	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28189	We'll remind you here, but more importantly, it will remind you of the Special Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28190	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Pavicevic, you must understand that you are not a parliamentary group and you cannot be subject to members of the Rules of Procedure as is the case for Mr Djurisic and Mr Babic. So you don't have the right to a replica. You're not mentioned personally, and according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead. Just, please, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, the Honored Ministers of Verbić and the Honored Guests and Guests, Mr. Becic, you have just twice been in violation of Article 104 of the National Assembly. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Here, let me just read you attitude one, and you've hurt the position of the 2nd member. In point 1 of the statement, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. In point 2, we are talking about MPs who are members of another party, Mr. Becic. You just gave Mr. Babic the right to a replica on the same basis that I previously appeared on the line, but you didn't give me the right,
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28192	Mr. Pavicevic, just to make it more clear to me, when was your name mentioned?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28193	Well, neither did Mr. Babic mention the name and last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28194	But it is the party president. It's a parliamentary group, head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28195	Well, I recognized myself in Mr. Babic's speech. Mr. Pavicevic, it's not worth it for me to convince myself. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Of course I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28197	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28198	I'd like to ask Mr. Babic a question, if possible. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28199	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic, head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28200	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, when insults aren't enough, then we move on to threats, so we've heard that my party and I will be dealt with by the Special Court of Organized Crime. I only ask that court to deal with the work of the political party that I belong to myself as soon as possible, to get an answer to who it is and how much and how responsible it is for everything that has happened in Serbia today. I was talking about the fact that I look forward to arguments in which there is no future, in which there is no truth, and the truth is that from 48 months, 13, 14 months of Parliament's work, there has been no Rules of Procedure that even governed questions of the government's last Thursday of the month. It was adopted in 2009 as a single newspaper and was then consumed as consumed. If we're going to look at the average of those years, you're already worse than that average, like you're worse at everything. The public debt of the Republic of Serbia increased by four billion euros a year, and seven billion euros increased by four years. Public debt at the end of 2011 was slightly more than 45%, and today it is over 75%. Finally, by proposing this amendment, I did not dispute compliance with EU rules. I asked us to control law enforcement through this legal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28201	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Mr. Granny, after the amendment. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Replica, mentioning the government. You have no right to a replica. It's only the government, not the party president, not the SNS, so you have no right to replication. Do you want to follow the amendment? (No) The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28202	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 107 who speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. It is not true that the government and the ministries do not provide answers to the question that MPs are asking. Otherwise, as Boris Tadic ruled and ruled by the DS, there is one song from 2012: "Haral Tadic Gang". That's what the people thought of his government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28203	Please, Mr. Martinovic. Don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, Mr Bečić, please tell Mr Djurisic that on 11 March 2015, the Minister of Interior sent me an answer to the question I asked on 10 February 2015, since I asked for a notice and an explanation concerning the establishment of malversions and criminal acts carried out in “Vojvodine Development Bank”, the Fund for Capital Investments AP Vojvodina, the Vojvodine Development Fund and the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development, which states, simply for the sake of the public and citizens, that the government is not doing its job, police officials of the MUP, on the basis of the requirements for the collection of the necessary notices of the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime in Belgrade, are carrying out checks on the circumstances of the business “Vojvodine Bank” with the Fund for the Development of the Development of the AVojvodina, on the basis of the need for the results of the wrongful investment and the results of the wrongful persons in the role of the role of the members of the members of the members of the members of the former members of the members of the members of the members of the Council. Criminal code. Mr. Martinovic, just explain to me what this has to do with me breaking the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28205	It's all right, Mr. Martinovic. That's them, among other things, from that song from 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28206	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28207	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I believe you have injured a member of 109 who has the right to give notice to a MP when he uses curses and offensive expressions. I don't know if there's an offensive term in your "band" dictionary or not. If it is not an offensive expression, then we can talk about the various gangs that exist in Serbia today and drug gangs and car gangs and political gangs, the political gang from Nemanja Street and similar things.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28208	Mr. Djurishich, please. You're the one who reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're doing exactly what you're contesting that another MP did, quoting something from an event. Please don't do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28209	I was talking about it... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28210	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Let me speak.) No, no, no, Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28211	Mr. Vice President, regarding article 103, I have one very short question for you. Do you think that Mr. Martinovic, when he spoke earlier, advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure, or do you feel that that time has been misused and that in that case you were obliged not to listen to him and ask him after two minutes and 20 seconds what this has to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but that you first take away the time of his parliamentary group, because of the obvious abuse of the right to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure and, secondly, to give him the measure of notice, because taking away the time of the parliamentary group is not the only thing that stands at your disposal? On the contrary, you have an obligation in accordance with Article 103, paragraph 7, to make notices provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure known to that national MP who abuses abuses. Do you think it was your duty? If you don't think so, please give me an explanation that what Alexander Martinovic said can in any interpretation and any version of the event represent a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28212	Miss Jerkov, let me answer. The very fact that I interrupted Mr. Martinovic twice, the fact that I asked him what that had to do with it, the fact that I told the secretary to take the parliamentary group for two minutes, says that I believe that in one part of the application for a breach of the Rules of Procedure he did not speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) In the day of the vote, the assembly will declare itself. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavicevic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, Minister Verbic and the Honorable Guest, you have violated Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, Mr. Becic, and most of all the Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly are broken when you chair. You violated article 109 by not intervened when SNS MPs used the term "band" to mark the functioning of another group of MPs. I have here a "Serb Language Dictionary", dear Mr. Becic, and to explain to you the meaning of the term "band" and that this is an inappropriate term here in our parliament. He says the gang is a bandit and a thief state. Is that what another MP or a group of MPs here call one of the people's messengers? He says it's a bad country, a bandit, a gangster. Mr. Becic, it was your obligation to intervene, to first warn Mr. Babic, and then, in accordance with article 109, to give him a warning measure, as you say to the MPs coming from the opposition. I can understand that you have not broken the Rules of Procedure only if you understand that Mr Babic used the term “band” instead of the term “bandage”, which is the next term in the dictionary, which means: bandage, weight on wound, fracture, bandage, so that there is a misunderstanding between you as MPs of the same SNS group in the National Assembly. Please, now that I've been very nice to you, I think, explain, accept that you have made a mistake and give a warning measure to Mr Zoran Babic because he described in an inappropriate way the actions of other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28214	Mr Pavicevic, dear professor, you can see that your exposure to the injury of the Rules of Procedure is a lot of laps, because at one point you did not say "Mr Martinović", but "Mr Babic" said it, and at one point you said that SNS MPs said it, and in another, only one MP said it, so I didn't understand a lot of lapuses until the end. But I can give you the same explanation I gave Miss Jerkov - I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28215	Mr. Chairman, the 107th member speaks of the obligation of all MPs to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. I would remind you that the song "Harala Tadic's Gang" is a folk wetland, not invented by Mr Martinovic, that's what the people did. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Epic National Song. ) Is this an invitation now to the Rules of Procedure and to seek punishment for Mr Martinovic because he quotes something that came from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It is the demeaning of people in Serbia, it is the demeaning of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's a shame, please, Mr. Chairman. I know that Mr Pavicevic and Mrs Jerkov do not respond to Serbian citizens. I know it suits only those 6% who vote for Bojan Pajtic and for them and that they only accept them as citizens of Serbia, but this song is because of the trouble, because of the misery they put them into, because of all the criminal and robbery privatisations they've done, because of all the 400,000 jobs they've taken away, they've taken people's right to the future, to life, this song has come into existence. In this way and through these previous calls to the Rules of Procedure and to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, citizens of the Republic of Serbia are belittled. On the other hand, I looked, and in just a few days, she had 141,000 views on YouTube. Is it possible that colleagues Pavicevic no longer respond to social networks? So those who consume social networks don't respond either? That's really scary. I thought that as a society we would go forward, use social networks to be closer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and in this way Mr. Pavicevic also disrespects people who use social networks, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28216	Time. Thank you. My colleague Igor Becic tells me that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed. Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Just tell me which member it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28217	Unlike the others, as soon as you turn me on, I'll say. It's about art. 103, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28218	Article 107 can't. He's been auctioned several times. These others can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28219	I advertise five or six members.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28220	This sixth can't, and five can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28221	First we start with Article 103. I thank Mr. Becic for being painful to the opposition, but, let's say, the reclining of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure which I pointed out was not respected, I did not get the word, although Mr. Pavicevic received twice the word, according to the almost consecutive injury of the Rules of Procedure. So he could've advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure twice, I couldn't have done it once. Mr. Babic received his word before me once, because he is the head of the parliamentary group, Mr. Djurisic received his word because he is the head of the parliamentary group, but there is no excuse to give the head of the parliamentary group a word twice, and no word is given between them to ordinary MPs. Of course I won't write a constitutional complaint about the discrimination that has been carried out, I respect that positive discrimination against the opposition, but something offensive has been said here. They literally said -- a political bank from Germany, qualified the majority that supports the government of the Republic of Serbia, and they said we are worse at all of them, which is an unforgivable insult, because it is impossible. It's hard to be worse than them. It's not hard to be better than them. Their government was only worse than their government, and that's why I see this as an unforgivable insult. I do not ask to vote on this, but in the future, with all the respect that the chairman has to tolerate the opposition, it must be taken into account, especially Mr Pavicevic, who, when he hears, must correct Mr Babic, the song is not called "Hara Tadic's gang", but "Hara Tadic's gang", so that this song, this folk epic song must have its authentic name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28222	Thank you. You've wasted your time. This first part of who had the advantage of hurting the Rules of Procedure you see with the head of Parliament, and I will discuss it with Igor Becic, if you agree, that we do not vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. As for the use of the word “band, ” I hear it has been on all sides many times. The epic songs were quoted, and it was quoted, as you stated, I will not repeat. So, the only thing the chairman was interrupting when words like that were used. So he didn't want to impose penalties that were unpopular. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28223	Thank you, Your Honor. Article 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28224	I apologize, MP, several times there have been 107, 109, 107, 109, and there have been no actions between you, except for your parliamentary announcements in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28225	There have been actions, Madam President, because it has not been done under Rule 109, but the Rules of Procedure are being misused and offensive terms are being used in the manner you tolerate, and how insults are being taken to the expense of Mr Tadic under the epic Serbian wetlands. Here, some modern Serbian wetlands. He says, Wolfie, you've cut pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28226	Ambassador, this is really untasteful, not because of what you're quoting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28227	It's the latest epic Serbian wetlands. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28228	I agree with you, but don't go on like that. You said, the political gang from Nemina 11. You're not sensitive to such sentences. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, I am very sensitive. You know the answer will follow. Allow me, as chairman, to end this painful discussion. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I did not use the word gang.) Please, allow me to end this unsettling discussion that leads to nothing. I turned off your microphone. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I see.) I know you see, you feel and you know. Let's let Ambassador Vladimir Orlic talk about the amendment and get back to the subject. This is really painful, and we can keep hitting under the belt, I believe all MPs with equal force can get involved in this and come out all blue. It's not my goal. Please. The word has the People's MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28229	I thank Madam President, and I would like to join the invitation to discuss the amendment, if there is any interest in the amendment's proposal, both by colleagues who have come forward to support this amendment, if anyone in the hall remembers what it was all about, before we entered into a debate on the replicas and advertising of the Rules of Procedures. By demonstrating good will, I insist on replicating myself, we try to hold this discussion at some level, but I'm afraid some people do not keep realizing that it's something that is really good and that makes a contrast to what is persistently demonstrated here, and what is what, just a relic of the past of bad times that we should leave behind. It has something to do with the amendment. So, on the subject of what we heard as an argument by colleagues who supported the amendment, there is actually no argument from Madam President. I did not report for a reaction on an attempt to point out a European Parliament resolution, it has nothing to do with the debate. I thank you for your reaction to this matter. And even to the questions of some honesty again, you've also commented on Mr. Minister and I agree that this is a story with no substance whatsoever that can be convinced of one who insists, if only a little better look at the text that he proposes. I agree that we should not discuss a law that is not on the agenda today and has nothing to do with the amendment. So I remain only to address the amendment's promoters and on what we have heard, on the matter of trying to support the proposal to adopt the amendment. Answers to questions asked by MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we get from the Government and we get it regularly. We can make sure that we have received written answers to parliamentary questions for this session today. On this day and two days ago, when we began the debate in principle. So this mechanism, ladies and gentlemen, is working. It's absolutely working. The possibility to ask questions when reference is made to the work of the ministries, individual ministries are also absolutely functioning. When someone says we haven't heard the argument why we shouldn't adopt the amendment to Article 51, I have to remind, yes, and I'll repeat it once more if I have to and no matter how many times it takes. The mechanism proposed is too high and I think that's more than enough argument. It doesn't have to be about how it was before, it's just too much. If we weren't just criticizing each other, I'd say a few positive things for the end, I hope this debate has long ceased to contain any meaning. The first positive thing, I want to thank you for your kind recognition of the promoter that when they were able not to build this kind of control mechanism themselves into legislative proposals. Correct confession. It's nice to hear that. Secondly, I want to commend the invitation not to prevent us from correcting our mistakes. So the mistakes of either one's own or another shouldn't be a reason not to go as society in the direction of progress. I quote the words of the amendment's proposal - an invitation to look forward rather than backwards. Forward, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are exactly what we have been calling on from these benches for a long time and we will continue to do so. A look forward that represents a core of political focus and a general social interest in a political force programme called the SNS. In that sense, I welcome if we were able to raise the level of understanding between us. Today it was said of the people's crevices, the Latin wisdom, who is not progressing, who is turning back. I'm glad some of you on the other side of the hall have drawn good conclusions from this wisdom. For the very end, to be completed in a complete tone of mutual respect and understanding, and despite the fact that I still consider the proposal established by this amendment to be excessive, therefore the mechanisms of control and verification of information exist. Here I will take one step of goodwill, I say on my part – I will consider further supporting the proposal if we hear any more of the words that I have called "excuse" and "we have made a mistake". If the amendment promoter excuses them, so for not having such mechanisms in the past, "I'm sorry" and "we've made a mistake" I accept to consider and yet support this proposal by voting. Until I hear them, however, I will remain in the conclusion that this amendment should not be adopted, but it is now in the hands of the promoter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28230	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the report submitted by the Government to the National Assembly through the committees in charge, an annual report on the effects of the application of this law, sets out all the legal provisions, but I must remind the party of the former regime on the Rules of Procedure that they adopted in 2009. In Article 229, the minister informs the National Assembly's committee on the work of the ministry once every three months. At the meeting of the Committee on Ministers for Indigenous Information, they may also appoint members of the committee responsible and an authorised representative of a parliamentary group who does not have a member on that committee. The Committee shall report to the National Assembly on the findings of the submitted information. I don't know which other legal clause should exist and which other regulations in the Rules of Procedure to make someone notice that the amendment proposed is in a certain way in vain. We're wasting time here, we asked for information yesterday on anti-urban protection, and we got that information almost within one day. As you know, I'd like to discuss the damage that was in last night's storm, but while the party of the former regime here, while the village burns the former hair regime's party combing and it doesn't occur to them to share the grief and pain that farmers feel about last night's storm and disaster and the abandoned defense system we found in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28232	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28233	It's these arguments against me that I think the arguments for the adoption of this amendment are. Because there is obviously no equality of all MPs when they use what the Rules of Procedure gives them for their right, which is to ask the Government a question and to get an answer within 15 days. The last time we had a chance last week to ask a question at the beginning of the session, I shared with you MPs the fact that I waited a month and a half for the defence minister's response on the position of the Republic of Serbia to sign the Convention on Banning Use of Casset Ammunition. So, not 15 days but 45 days, and here I hear today that some MPs are responding spotlessly within one day. Unfortunately, as the previous MP we received on anti-building protection said, it was not possible to prevent the damage that was done yesterday by the city, as the law could not if we had adopted it at the beginning of this debate, and that law was withdrawn. The question is, when are we going to get him back in front of us and if we're going to adopt him in the first place, that in this season, the damage from the city is less than it's likely to be? Today, it is not the MPs of the former regime, nor the former government, but this government and this majority, because they do not put the law on the agenda and do not adopt it. That is why I repeat our proposal not to make it a parliamentary obligation for ministers to respond or not respond, says the MP - once in three months the committee responsible is reporting. I am a member of a committee where the minister did not submit the report three months in a row, but after nine months we discussed three reports. What's in the Rules of Procedure isn't good enough and we're asking it to be part of the law, legal obligation. Once a year, the Minister informs us before the board of directors about the effects of law enforcement, all the effects. I've talked about it before. If we're going to apologize and admit mistakes, we did it. We politically accepted the citizens' court in the 2012 and 2014 elections, we learned something from these mistakes, and I don't need to apologize to you. We apologized to the citizens of Serbia for all the mistakes we made, but we learned something from these mistakes and we believe that it can and should be done better. You don't. You want to keep repeating our mistakes. Keep repeating them, you'll end up in the election the way we did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28234	By amendment, again? MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28235	I still believe this one, Madam President, for the last time. Just for a moment, let me inform my fellow Members of the People's Parliament that I have made a final decision on this amendment. So, since acceptance, non-acceptance, election results are absolutely not the subject here, alternatives, ladies and gentlemen, there is no, I don't consider it any reason for further discussion under this amendment. It's nice to face their own mistakes, but I regret that a gesture of goodwill is not accepted, at least not this time. Well, since those words -- sorry and wrong we haven't heard it yet, I'm informing the esteemed colleagues that I won't vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28236	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28237	I join Mr. Orlic's argument, with such a visionary knowledge that this apology will never come to pass, as it never came to our hands to agree on important projects, such as the "Belgrade on Water", such as many other jobs where we need the broadest consensus, we have not received from the other side, nor will, nor hands provided, except political hatred. But what really made me very sad in these few words of previous speakers, which is that the policy of a party comes down to some day-to-day political events. If the policy were guided by articles in the media, we now saw that this government was responsible because the Anti-Build Protection Act was withdrawn and, for God's sake, had it not been for this law and if it hadn't been for that Government of the City, it wouldn't have been in Serbia. Had he remained, the superhero Boris Tadic, as he ran the marathon and played basketball, he would have probably made those super-political powers, which he had, likely to fly to the clouds and instead of anti-urban protection missiles, make the city not to be in Serbia. But it's sad that when it rains, when the sun shines, when everything that's happening happens and the finger goes up and says, the government of Alexander Vukic is responsible and thinks he's making points. No, gentlemen, that shows only the hopelessness of your policy, which is not politics, but running.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28238	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28239	I don't think we've used our time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28240	I thought it was a replica. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28241	By amendment, I'm sorry. To conclude, today, with the accession of your appeal, Mrs Gojkovic, to bring this session to an end in a normal and civilized manner, I will say one more thing. I agree with some of the findings that a colleague had just brought to Nemanja's street, as I agree he was saying then, when he said that he was talking about the past, because Oliver Dulic was sitting on Nemanja's street, he was sitting on Saša Drgain's street, all those people who had more, much more work afterwards were sitting in Germany's street, not to say the only thing with the prosecution or with the Special Court of Organized Crime. I believe when Mr. previous speaker and amendment promoter spoke about these things related to Nemanja's street that he spoke about the past, and fortunately, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are talking about the distant past and a policy that will never return.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28242	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28243	Thank you. I say, I'm glad when in the absence of arguments we begin to insult each other. I'm sorry it's tolerated by the chairman. I won't take offenses with insults. Who wanted to hear what I had to say about this law and other things that were the subject today, I believe he understood. I wasn't talking about Nemina in the past, I was talking about Nemina in the present, about today. I was talking about the fact that the Republic of Serbia today does not have a ready defence system against the city cannot be the responsibility of the government whose mandate ended three years ago. For three years, things could have been fixed, but there is something that needs to be known, to work hard to change things, not to insult other fellow MPs, other political options in parliament or in public life, which is the manner of today being represented by the ruling majority. I never wanted to participate in political life and political debate in this way, but I will always be ready to respond to the insults and truths that are being presented about what was once, although I don't think it will lead us to a better future, because today, the government that manages the Republic of Serbia in 2015 is responsible, not the Government that ended the term of office in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28244	Thank you. Did you answer the amendment? You don't have a basis for replication. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic, from the place: I would not do so. They wouldn't even work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28245	Dear colleagues, I've come to the amendment, but now I'm a little confused after such a discussion, so I don't even know what the amendment is about. In principle, if you hadn't already accepted that amendment, I wouldn't have conditioned you to apologize because I don't think we're little children to play like that, but to be serious citizens, or serious representatives of citizens here. What the citizens are looking at today doesn't cheer me up, and I don't think he's looking forward to them either. We are making this Parliament something that is not like it – we are competing who will be more offended, who will bring more dirty laundry to the public, and we forget that we have taken an oath here and that we have committed ourselves to doing what we do, we are doing in the interests of the citizens of Serbia. Someone may have fooled us and dragged us into some game where it would matter who answered and discussed it how many times. I don't think that's good, and that's why I ask you to be specific in your discussions, to try to do something that will be good for the citizens of Serbia, and in this regard I'm going to say a folk's wetlands that say -- it's better to talk a little bit and a lot better than a lot of stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-05-15-0.u28246	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, details and general terms. Dear MPs, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday, May 15, 2015, starting at 12 pm and 20 minutes as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the 7th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 134 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. I ask MPs not to draw cards and put them back on, then it is difficult to determine the results of the vote. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, no one, abstentioned – one, voted five out of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of 11 MPs from the "Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 153 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of six MPs of the LSV group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—has voted 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by a group of eight MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the "Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia" group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the "Boris Tadic – SDS, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia" group submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Legal Protection of Industrial Design, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – no one with abstention – two voted four of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Legal Protection of Industrial Design. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and ECVIALITY OF PUBLIC AUTHORITIES ON PUBLICATION AND SCIENTIFIC NAMES I place the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on mutual recognition and equivalence of public documents on acquired education and scientific names, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 163, v – one, abstention – one, there are not those who did not vote from the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the Recognition of Public Corrections between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Professional, Academic and Scientific Names I place the proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on mutual recognition of public documents on acquired education and on professional, academic and scientific names, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted one of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Parliamentary Group DS. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, no one, with abstentions, voted four of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PARLAMENTAL COMMITTEE FOR Stabilisation and Association I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted three of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has adopted the motion for a decision. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the MPs of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 13 May 2015, at 13.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – three, abstentions – there is no, 143 of the total of 152 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 15 May 2015, at 11.42 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – three abstentions – there is no, 142 of the total of the 151 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 15 May 2015, at 11.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 138 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 15 May 2015, at 11.53 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no, 128 of the total of 135 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the seventh session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
