ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 94 MPs attend the session. I remind you that it is necessary for the session to be attended by most of the total number of MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 139 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Mr. Dejan Radenkovic, Stefana Miladinović, Marjana Maras, Sinisa Maksimović, Aleksandar Čotric and Olgica Batic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, exclusively for Friday, due to the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda law, which was set out in the government's request. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with the invitation of the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly, which was convened at the request of the Government, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session with a certain agenda contained in that request. The following Dn e v n ir d 1 is specified in that request. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media; and 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual establishment of cultural centres. National MP, i.e. myself, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 170. Rules of Procedure, I have proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual establishment of cultural centres. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by Ivan Tasovac, Minister of Culture and Information, Sasa Mirkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture and Information, Snezana Pečenčić, Head of the Department of Culture and Information, Dragana Vujic, Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Dejan Stojanovic, Group Manager at the Ministry of Culture and Information. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and Media and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual establishment of cultural centres. Does the word "proposer, culture and information minister" Ivan Tasovac want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30664	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, the Law on Public Information and Media was adopted on 2 August 2014. The law elaborated on one of the fundamental strategic definitions of the state in this area, which is the exit of the state from ownership in the media and privatization of media publishers, which was directly or indirectly founded by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, or a unit of local self-government, as a publisher who was directly or indirectly founded by an institution, a company or another legal person who was financed by public income in general or in part. The law provides for a ban on the financing of media issuers from 1 July 2015, except as provided for in Article 16, public media services at the republic and province level, institutions formed to exercise public information rights in the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija and media whose founding rights have been transferred to national councils of national minorities until the date of entry into force of this law. The law stipulates that privatisation will be carried out in accordance with the rules governing the conditions and procedure for the change of ownership of social and public capital and property, which is governed by the Privatisation Act. It has been established that by 1 July 2015 media issuers' capital must be sold. After that deadline, the sale of capital is suspended and the issuer's capital is privatised by the transfer of shares to employees without compensation. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media changes the deadline until which the media issuer's capital must be sold from 1 July 2015 on 31 October 2015. The change in the deadline for the privatisation of the media was necessary because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which was prescribed for all privatisation entities to carry out a list and assess the fair value of the entire assets, liabilities and capital with effect on 31 December of the last financial year, in 2014, and that the documentation of the delivery to the Privatisation Agency within 30 days of the date of delivery of the request to the Agency. Given that all media that started the privatisation process have submitted an assessment of fair market value, total assets, liabilities and capital with condition on 31 December 2013, as the last business year at the time of submission of the documentation, and that the deadline for submission of the new documentation is 30 days from the date of delivery of the Agency's request in accordance with the new legal obligations, it is also necessary to adjust the deadlines provided for by the Public Information Act and the media. In this respect, a new deadline for media privatisation is foreseen, which is October 31st 2015. New deadlines were also set after which the financing of public income media was prohibited, 1 July 2015 and 31 October 2015, except in the cases referred to in Article 16. Public information law and media. A new deadline for suspending the process of privatising the media through the sale of capital, which is related to the publication of a public call for the sale of media issuers' capital, has also been introduced in order to successfully conduct the privatisation process. It is provided that if a public call for the sale of capital and media issuers is not sent by 1 July 2015, the privatisation process by selling the issuer's capital is suspended, and the privatisation process continues with the division of shares to employees, without compensation. The aim of the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Information and the media is to enable the successful privatisation of all media, and thus to continue the process of media reforms. As regards the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the bilateral establishment of cultural centres, the initiative to conclude the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the bilateral establishment of cultural centres launched by the Chinese Party in 2013 in order to regulate the issue of mutual achievement and the conditions of work of cultural centres. The People's Republic of China is an important strategic partner for the Republic of Serbia in overall bilateral relations. Given the mutual interest in regulating the issue of opening cultural centres, the two sides agreed that a special agreement would be drawn up in line with the Memorandum of Understanding on the mutual establishment of cultural centres signed in Belgrade on 14 July 2010 to define standards for the opening of cultural centres in the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual establishment of cultural centres was signed by Foreign Ministers Ivica Dacic and Li Manchang on 17 December 2014. Cooperation in the field of culture between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China can be seen as very successful, both in terms of quality and in terms of scope, and this agreement provides a legal framework for strengthening inter-institutional co-operation and positioning and defining the role and the working conditions of cultural centres. All competent authorities, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Republic Secretariat for Law and the Republic Secretariat for Public Policy have been consulted during the work on the draft law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30665	Are the reports of the committee in charge looking for a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Are the messengers who have now suddenly appeared on the screen, are the lists of speakers or have they been authorized? Authorized. Okay, I'll figure out that due to the weather, it's a little slower to react. The first one is Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30666	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Ministers, Associates, ladies and gentlemen National MPs, for the SVM parliamentary group, it is extremely important that amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information and Media are on the agenda of the National Assembly. As Mr. Minister mentioned, the Law on Public Information and the media was passed last summer in August 2014. It elaborated on one of the strategic definitions of the state in this area, which is the exit of the state from ownership in the media and the privatisation of the media, which was directly or indirectly founded by the state. Our position on this matter was clear 11 months ago. That's when we said that SVM in globally doesn't support media privatisation, but since the law that goes that way, we have to respect it. It is extremely important that the amendments and additions of the Public Information Act and the media entered the assembly procedure in time, because, as we know, no public call for an auction of local media has been issued in any case, as we know. As explained in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media, the deadline until which the capital of the media publisher must be changed from 1 July 2015 on 31 October 2015. The change in the time limit for privatising the media was necessary in some way for technical reasons, as a law on amendments to the Privatisation Act was passed last week, so it is necessary to adapt the deadlines provided for by the Law on Public Information and Media in accordance with the new legal obligations. We hope that for this time, for this additional four months, he can do so-called. Privatization. In his election programme, the Association of Duchy Hungarians predicted that a new set of media laws would ensure the preservation of the current level of information in the Hungarian language, and the model of privatisation of local media broadcasting programmes in the languages of national minorities and the way they are financed after privatisation will ensure the preservation of acquired rights of national minorities in the field of ifnormisation. Since the amendments and amendments to the law we are discussing today continue to meet these criteria, we will support the proposed law. It is of paramount importance to us that according to the many elements of our legal system media founders can continue to be national councils of national minorities and that they cannot form just institutions or foundations, but also companies. On the other hand, it is very important to leave everything to the point of further financing of those media, whose founders are national councils of national minorities, since this has also been obtained by the fact that the founding rights of institutions or companies which issue sheets in the languages of national minorities have been transferred to the national councils of national minorities, but the AP Vojvodina is, for example, an AP. continue to be obliged to finance these enterprises, those institutions, or in the extreme case of the release of these printed media. For years, the Union of Duchy Hungarians has been loudly pushing for the survival of regional, local and public services and for the possibility of municipalities and cities being the founders of these media, but this is no longer possible after the Constitutional Court's decision has been taken. After that, we advocated the installation of very serious guarantees for the survival of the character of public service in these media and after their privatisation. Our proposal entered into the text of the law a guarantee related to continuity in the production of media content. In fact, the law says that these media in the next five years must not only preserve the work that some of them have in the last 40 years, but also continuity in the production of media content that implies the obligation to maintain the share of programming time in certain languages of national minorities, i.e. the share of information, education, science, cultural and artistic, children's, entertainment, sports and other software content of public interest in certain languages of national minorities, in line with the programme scheme for a year preceding the adoption of the law. What makes this significant? This is important because citizens can inform themselves in their native language and in the future, as they have done in the past decades. This possibility and these guarantees that we encountered the openness of Minister Tasovac and his associates at the Ministry of Culture and Public Information, as early as last year, will ensure the survival of these media as a public service. We welcome the fact that these guarantees have survived in amendments to the laws currently on the agenda. For all reasons, and most of all because of the very important guarantees and various provisions that entered the law on our proposal, SVM MPs will vote in favour of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information and Media. We hope that in the future we will not wait until the last moment and that by October 31st, this whole procedure will indeed be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30667	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30668	Madam President, Mr Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as regards the JS parliamentary group, there is no dilemma, we will support the proposal on amendments to the Law on Public Information and the media for the simple reason why we think the conditions have been obtained, that the Government has rightly noted, that this deadline provided for by the basic Law on Privatisation of the Media for the reasons that many media houses at local level for some reasons objective, we must say and subjective, did not take all necessary and necessary measures to complete this work as well by 1 July 2015. With these changes and additions, the government is now meeting these media houses to be able to finish all the jobs in the later period by October 31st. It is also good that, according to us from JS, in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Information and the media, it is said that when these media are privatised, this policy of media and information, etc. must be determined backwards for 12 months, as it has already been done and done during this past period. So, it won't be possible, let's say, the new owner of some media to suddenly turn that informational and every other editorial policy in the media in a way that wasn't foreseen by an earlier work programme of these media. So, that three-month deadline was left. It should enable these media houses and all employees, especially journalists, to be able to manage, to say conditionally, in new conditions, and also to how well it is, according to us from JS, which is envisaged if there is no possibility for these media to privatise that free actions are given to all employees in those media houses and that they can continue to work and make some income depending on the results of the work they have. So there's no doubt that this is a good thing the government did. She took a good look at all the problems that existed and exist in these media houses, and the fact is that local self-governments no longer have enough money to finance these media, but that they have to find other ways to, to use that expression, to survive, or to be in the future. So, Mr. Minister, to conclude once again, that I do not owe much, there is no need to speak, and the JS welcomes the efforts of the Ministry and the Government to meet these media houses, to give them another deadline, bearing in mind exactly what you said there was an amendment to the Privatisation Act and that there should be a capital census for 31.12.2014, in fact, in most of these houses there have been some changes in relation to that list that was at the end of 2013. So, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and Media, has the full support of the JS parliamentary group and we will vote in favour of these amendments on the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30669	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30670	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Minister Tasovac, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, the LSV will not support these amendments of the law because we did not support the law itself, and we will not support these changes for the reason that the privatisation of the media is intended only to put out the media, so that only those media that correspond to the state will remain on the market. I come from a bar and I can tell what the local media means and a local. In Sremska Mitrovica when the floods were if there were no local media I think the citizens would have drowned. We'd give in in that direction, maybe it's not a good term, but it's simply local media that monitors life, culture, education, informing people who live in a particular place. I can tell you that people from the locals, whether they live in Nis, whether they live in Leskovec, whether they live in the Russian Christur, whether they live in the Tower, don't care what the state television broadcasts, what the Public Service broadcasts to the extent that it monitors it so much. They don't care if it's too crowded on Gazela or whether they cut the payroll in Belgrade. What I'm saying is that our population is moving, that this globalisation has led to the fact that our villages remain empty. It's just that people won't have information from the field they're coming from. The second issue that we will not support this law is that information is shut down in the localities and the right to inform in the languages of the national minorities. Simply, people won't be able to inform themselves in their own language anymore, which is really the right thing to do. I will give an example of Radio-Television "Kovačica", actually local media in the municipality of Kovačica. There, Radio "Kovačica" has been informed in four languages, in Hungarian, Slovakian, Romanian and Serbian since 2004. These days they will celebrate, radio "Kovačica", 50 years. So, if for 50 years this media could function normally, inform citizens in its languages about not only local topics but also about topics that are of national importance, simply Radio Kovac, TV "Kovačica" will no longer buy because it is inert, because it cannot go on the market. In 2004, three governments, Hungary, Slovakia and Romania, opened the "Kovavica" TV in a conversation to assist in technically very good equipment for "Kovavica" TV. Last year, Prime Minister Vukic discussed with Miroslav Lajcak that in some ways TV "Kovačić" and Radio "Kovavica" would be saved, but that will certainly be nothing. Simply, not only the local media in Kovaca, but throughout Vojvodina, and eventually, and perhaps in Vojvodina, it is not that difficult because there is a Vojvodina Radio-Television, which has on the Second Programme and on the First Programme journals daily and information, magazines in the languages of the national communities, but I do not know how information will take place in the languages of the national communities living in central Serbia. That's what I think is under question. Informing in the languages of national minorities is in some ways our entry into Europe. So no one in the environment can boast, so we can only boast, and I don't know why that wealth, why we're bringing that gold down in some way by privatizing everything that's worked so far. It's impossible for the local media to function to need that kind of money. I think local self-government, now it's such a time to live in general misery, but I guess we're trying to make better times find a way to fund local media. In my opinion, also according to LSV, we think that this privatisation will really lead to the total destruction of local media, to the media that have functioned well, which have tradition, especially here, and I will say again, on acquired rights, acquired rights by the Constitution. I don't know, Minister, how do you explain how to fund programmes in the languages of national communities? So they're not NGOs that can finance for a while, then wait for a project, in three months, the funding will arrive, so the program will stand for three months, and after three months or half a year after the project's money has arrived, will be done? It's my question to you, and I think it's completely wrong to finance projects, especially in terms of the programme in the languages of the national communities. So much for that. I don't want to convince the law. We'll give the amendments. If you accept them, we can talk about everything, but we certainly won't vote these changes because the media, the local media of great importance, the media in the languages of the national communities, will be shut down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30671	Minister Tasovac has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30672	I just want to assure you once again that no acquired right of national minorities is in any way diminished by any previous law, let alone these amendments and additions to this law. We need to be aware of one more thing, there are 1,447 public messages in Serbia, we have 110 TV stations in Serbia, we have 325 radio stations. We're talking 74 media where the state is withdrawing from the media ownership structure. We're coming up with a completely paradoxical situation, which we've been hearing complaints about for months at the expense of the state's influence on the work of the media, and at the moment when the state decides to withdraw from the ownership structure, then we're hearing criticism about why we're doing it. It seems to me that this very step we took and gave a chance, one more, I must say, to the media themselves, which has not shown sufficient responsibility, and to local self-government, although we have repeatedly warned them throughout this whole process. The law was passed in August, the Ministry of Culture and Information brought all necessary sublaws to join the privatisation process. You mentioned Kovacica, the municipality of Kovacica made a decision that it would not access the privatisation process, which is directly contrary to the law. So, a very large responsibility, i.e. the greatest responsibility actually for the necessity of moving this deadline, is precisely on the media, who did not take seriously that their obligation was to prepare documentation, and local self-government, which had an obligation to complete their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30673	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30674	You in the media keep going with these media being against privatisation, which is also a fact. You're talking about media obstructing privatisation, thinking a miracle is going to happen, and now it's going to break and privatisation will stop, but I've contacted some local media. They say that coordination between local media, the ministry, yours, and the Privatisation Agency does not exist, that there are simply no professional people at the Privatisation Agency to direct. People who worked in these local media were giving out their money, no matter what the situation was, they don't get paid, they're collecting 300, 400,000 dinars together to make an estimate. So just don't accuse the media, don't accuse the locals, because simply people may not be directed and don't know what's going on. About these actions, for example. I don't know which media you're saying you can buy free shares, but only those workers who haven't taken Dinkic's actions, the Telekom actions that everyone has already taken. In some local media, there's only one cleaning lady who can buy these actions and she can be the majority owner. So, I don't think that coordination between the ministry, the agency and the local media existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30675	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasavac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30676	I need to make another clarification. So they can't take action, no one can take unless the privatisation process is started, so there's another additional irresponsibility, I'd say, some local self-governments who haven't recognized that they won't give up on media reforms. As for criticism that there was no coordination, it is very difficult for them to accept them, since only the number of meetings attended by the State Secretary and other representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information is measured by dozens in this period, as well as public appeals for access to what has been prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30677	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30678	Dear Presidents, Mr Ministers, guests from the ministry, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us amendments to the Law on Public Information which, above all, should give extra time, instead of July 1st, 31st, 2015, to end privatisation, that is to say, the state withdraws from 74 media where it is as state, or as local self-government present. Dear Ministers, what I must begin to mention to you as a representative of the New Serbia Parliament Club and MP, when I spoke in August of the month, when this law was passed, I said the problem was time. What, if I may say so, I don't like being a MP is to vote for laws that give a certain additional deadline, and in time, we pointed out what might happen. I ask you now and as Minister – did Mr. Ministers need you to come to the National Assembly today, on Friday, when this law expires on Tuesday and when we should even vote that before the 8th day after the adoption and after the publication of the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" the bill comes into force, and now because of the delay of the ministry itself, we should vote here to do so even before that eighth day, but will probably be on Saturday? I'm asking you one more thing, Mr. Minister, you yourself said it was 74 media. From public information funds, primarily from Mr. Shubara, director of the Privatisation Agency, we have received information that some 14 media have previously entered the sales procedure itself, that by July 1st a total of 34 media will gain this right, and for others we will see what will happen. Now I ask you, why has the 14 media not been published before? From the memo we have, for example. The Serbian journalist's union, which was signed by Mrs. President, I think his name is Dragan Cabarkapa, it is evident that the ministry's mistake, or some protocol that was valid, was not valid, so I would like to get that explanation from you. What is interesting, distinguished ministers, my colleague who spoke before me also mentioned it, I understand, 34 media will be published by July 1st and we will protect them by October 31st 2015. Among those media is Tanjug News Agency. You're even saying it's going to take about 80 million dinars in the budget until October 31st. I ask you – should we make an exception in this law, dear ministers, and should we, if we want to be a serious country, should we give up the news agency and how many countries there are still around Serbia that do not have their own state agency, which they need tomorrow to rely on some private news agencies that are left to the market and whether everything should be viewed through that dinar? It is a similar question for Radio Yugoslavia, but we are all related to Tanjug and, of course, to what was called "Tanjug Appears" and it was thought that the information that Tanjug reported was verified. I think the state should consider making such services as Tanjug an exception. What is so important, dear ministers, we will have media that will cease to exist from July 1st, or actions will be transferred to employees. Now you should honestly tell us how many employees in these 74 media outlets have received a social programme. Unofficially, we have information that more than 16 media outlets have already passed and received consent to the social programme, that about 300 people have already received a social programme. Who stays in those media? Why haven't you made an exception that people who are in the media and who took these Dinkic's free actions and didn't get anything, it was a general scam, we all know it well, why can't they be transferred to them, because we're going to get only one employee from a media house in Serbia to get the right to run, at least for ten days, the whole media house? I think there could have been a solution, not to come up with a situation like we did today. Here, colleagues before me have also asked the question of informing national minorities. I have to mention, although I come from the Forest, from Topola, I got a letter from citizens from Bujanovac, where people say -- we have a Bujanovac Radio-Television that will cease to exist. So you will have an Albanian programme to organise the National Albanian Minority Council, but the programme will be shut down in Serbian. Can there, Mr. Minister, really make certain exceptions, for example? in specific environments, such as Bujanovac, where it is a more national environment, not to get into a situation where we won't have a programme in Serbian in a month, but only a programme, and I don't think anything bad about the programme in Albanian, but it is necessary that we live in the state of Serbia, that those people living downstairs have a programme in Serbian. What's also specific and what I have to ask you, Your Honors Minister, is that we in local self-government have huge problems concerning the implementation of the Public Information Act itself. It happens that we are now calling, or we have called public procurement, first for projects that will be financed from local budgets, and then for members of the Commission to determine which projects will be financed. Now we have really one, I have to say, a little bit of a situation, that the members of the Commission, here at my house in Topoli, the President of the Kruševec Commission, and two members are, one from Gornji Milanovac, and the other is from Kragujevac. Now we pay them travel expenses that they come and that they determine which projects a Topoli needs to finance from the local budget. Is there an adequate way to meet the needs of people living in these local environments, so to speak, the need to satisfy their service information, to have this information that is not commercial content, which comes from an environment that is 150 kilometers away, for example? From Topola? These are all specific examples, distinguished ministers, which talk about how this really has to be done and that this is something that needs to be done. This letter by the Honorable President of the Serbian Journalists' Union, Mrs. Cabarkape, tells us that they have submitted amendments, those are Articles 24 and 32, if I am not mistaken, where, for example, it is rightly required to prevent the founders of public ballots from being companies from these so-called so-called companies in Serbia in the future. ‘of brother-in-law’ zone. It is something I also find very necessary because of transparency, to simply see who are the founders of public reads in Serbia and that we no longer have those so-called hidden founders. You have a public record, whether it's written or electronic, and we don't even know who the real owners are today. There's one more thing I need to draw your attention to, Your Honor. Here, in the light of this law, you have provided that, of course, about 100 million additional funding from the budget is needed, above all for Tanjug and Radio Yugoslavia, which I have already mentioned, but only here is the explanation written by these co-workers at point 6 that says – the costs that law enforcement will cause for citizens and businesses especially small and medium-sized enterprises, so it is said, then, that I am not quoting, that it will not cause additional costs in small and medium-sized enterprises. I ask you, who fills the budget? Well, they're filling up these very small and medium-sized enterprises. We now need to make 100 million extra money out of the budget, and you say that this part of the law, I say, is not going to be re-enacted to the functioning of the economy at all. So, someone full of the budget and that someone automatically has additional costs, if these things are brought in, although I think so, and also the New Serbia parliamentary group thinks that they should consider keeping the state agency Tanjug on state property and that this period from October 31st should be used to simply shut down, because it will remain, I say, written down for generations that come after us that we are someone who shut down the state news agency. These are the things I wanted, dear Minister, to remind you. I think you should have gone out today with a cut of what happened to the media that was previously privatized. You have Mr. Mirkovic sitting next to you who was the founder of ANEM and I have to mention the Radio-Television Cačak, which was previously privatized. Do you know that television, which was one of the founders of ANEM, is one of the best in Serbia, after privatisation, unfortunately TV is gone. Is that how it's gonna happen with all the other regional centers? I have to mention here the Kragujevac Radio Television, which is an excellent public service, the Shumadi Radio Television from Arandelovac, which has a tradition of over 40 years, where all of us who live in Šumadia are used to waking up and sleeping with their news. What's gonna happen? Why can't we in Serbia have regional radio TV? If one Austria has nine regional public services, if one Sweden has 19, Great Britain 11 or how many, then why can Serbia not have regional public services, but since 01 January 2016 we will have a reintroduction of the subscription? I think it would be rightly more even if that cake were deployed both to public service and to rural public service, but also to regional public centres. This is very important, because I fear, once again, that citizens living in smaller areas will be left without timely information, without timely news, and especially from this, so to speak, municipal infrastructure that people need, and that is absolutely necessary. That is why I fear that, especially after October 31st, we will have very little media in Serbia. What is privatized, and the assessment I heard from the Privatisation Agency, is that realistically from these 35 media houses, which will be offered after July 1st, will be privatised between 15th and 20th highest. So we have a very difficult situation ahead of us. It will not be a problem for me to vote again on this law, but if certain things can be fixed, and here I ask you first of all to think about Tanjug and above all to allow employees in these media houses, who took these free Dinkic actions, to be able to pass on to them, those who did not take the social programme on them to transfer actions and that they can manage those media houses. Because if that doesn't happen, Your Honor, 80% of these media outlets won't exist after October 1st 2015. So, I thank you. New Serbia, of course, strongly supports the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic and we will support the principle of these bill proposals, but I sincerely ask you to take seriously these objections and remarks that we have made and that you will respond to them. I hope at least we can fix some of this next time on our way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30679	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30680	I thank you for your debate. I assume you've also submitted certain amendments to be discussed. However, all I have to say is that we only stick to those four points that change changes and supplement the Information Act, not in general, because the law is passed and it foresees the withdrawal of the state from the media ownership structure. As for something that's also very important in this law, which you mentioned, it's property and you know that there's an entry in the media register. The deadline for enrolment is August 13th, and after that, the very important step of media reforms will be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30681	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30682	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, respected Nišlija, and today we have one law on the agenda, one law whose only goal is to move deadlines and those deadlines, proposed by Mr. Minister on August 02, 2014 as the deadline for the privatisation of all the media, which is the founder of local self-government. We were at the time talking first about the harmfulness of the law and we asked that citizens of Serbia on the whole territory be equal to the rights and obligations. It's normal for a subscription to be paid. There should normally be a public service in the Republic. It's normal there's a radio-television of the Vojvodina. Vojvodina is an autonomous province, a large territory with its specificities, with its cultural and artistic heritage, with national minorities, and it is necessary that there is a public service that will cover the territory of Vojvodina and what is important to present to these people every day. It is normal that there is RTS, as a hat, as a state television, which, fortunately for Belgrade's citizens, is most of its programme and public information based on Belgrade, because Belgrade is the largest city that has over a million and a half inhabitants, and should exist, but it is not right for Serbia to be under Sava and Danube, where half of the territory, half of the population, is not such a public service that is financed from the subscription. By the time this law was passed, the possibility existed by additional payment from the budget of local self-government, so all those places that will lose local media this year were forced to inform their citizens about the events on their territory, on the territory they live in and where they are interested in what is happening, to pay additionally from the city budgets. With this law, it's the right thing to do. The project funding leaves the possibility of funding private media that will accept the role of informing citizens in their territory as a public media service. That's how I understand the law and I think it's the essence of this. The ministry had a year to implement this privatisation that we fought against, which we voted against, we even made a proposal to amend the law, and it failed to do so. By 30 April, it means before the adoption of an amendment to the Privatisation Act, as I found the data, 60 public media services of the locals submitted complete documentation, normally, since it was submitted in 2014, with an estimate of the assets, concluded on 31 December 2013, as it requested the last year to be as some basis for calculating the value of capital in these public votes. The ministry used the change of the Privatisation Act, although I say it was passed in May, and gave the order to do a new estimate of capital as of 31 December 2014 and to do local public services for a full month. This led to additional costs for local self-government, i.e. The local media, and on the other hand, some televisions from the interior couldn't make that assessment of capital, and the grotesque ones failed to hand them over until the deadline, I think the deadline was 19th of this month, if I'm not mistaken. What I have as a piece of information is that 14 media outlets handed it over, and 20 announced it. Whether they're turned in or not, that's what we'll see. Then the problem arises, which was also discussed by fellow Jovanovic and colleagues before me, that from the 1st we will have free share of shares, but these actions will not be given to people - workers of these institutions, media houses that have already received actions of Telekom and other companies that are divided in the past. By law, extra undivided actions, and unscheduled actions, and will be divided according to years of work experience, all undivided actions will go to the Privatisation Agency, and since the Law says that the state cannot be the founder of the media, so these houses will be shut down. Then what do we get? We will get that local self-governments, especially those, I repeat, under Sava and Danube will not have public media service for their territories, will not have the opportunity to inform their citizens of the currents in their environments, without any additional project payment that has only been stated in the law. The question is when these projects will be written, when they will be approved, who will approve them and how we will make the continuity of information in local communities projects. You know that the project is time-limited, that for each project a certain amount of funding is allocated in the budget, and we are looking for, i.e. We will be obliged to allow our fellow citizens continuity in the notice. Now it really wasn't clear to me. I've also tried to talk to people in local media, and nobody knows what it's going to look like. Perhaps you will give some instruction to local self-government because, past the policies and past the parties in the opposition, it is very important to ensure the continuity of information on local territory, extremely important, which by this law, Mr. Minister, you do not allow. I'm going to give you and the Ministry some more criticism because you yourself have given yourself a year to carry out one of the tasks you've taken over, you haven't done it. You're complaining about local self-government. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, well, local self-government is the people set up by the congregation majority identical to that of the Assembly. These aren't the people from Germany who came to run local self-government. You're saying that, as Minister, as your Ministry, you don't communicate with the Agency, or it's not adequate and you don't communicate with local self-governments that are naturally subordinated to the Government and the Ministry. I'd like you to tell me which local self-government refused to obey the government's orders and which is a local self-government whose duty is to obey the law, refused to comply with the law. If so, let's go, people, we have a ministry dealing with local self-government to put order into this local self-government, because if it does not respect the ministry's orders, then it means it does not respect its fellow citizens and who knows how it leads the local environment and who knows how that people live and what it's all denied by local self-government. I highly doubt there's such a local self-government. I don't think anyone would dare the mayor and the president of the municipalities to go directly against the government, no matter who it is, they're from the opposition parties. So policy for politics, but the law must also be respected by those who run local self-government or the state of apriors have accepted to obey the law, even if it is the worst in the world. I think what we're doing first brought about the problem of local self-government because, come on, the state, as counterpart Jovanovic said, will have to secure 100 million in the budget to finance the two houses by September. How are they going to provide local self-government, especially under Sava and Danube? All cities have trouble filling their budgets. There are thin budgets everywhere. How's it going? Will they do the reprogrammes? What are they gonna do? To raise their loans? I repeat, it was supposed to be all over. The last deadline was not June 2015, but as you explained to us here in the O.R. and on the board, the last deadline is June. Why were you waiting for the deadline? Why aren't people given a chance? Why not consider introducing regional public services to equalise the rights and obligations of Serbian citizens, not to mention national minorities that under Sava and Danube will not have opportunities like they have in Vojvodina. He won't have the same options. They will, provided they pay extra. I think that all of us MPs in this room are against it, asking that Serbian citizens have the same obligations, but that they have the same and rights, regardless of whether Serbian or other nationalities and whatever part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia live on. This just confirms what I was saying a year ago, that you're making citizens of Serbia into first and second-class citizens, at least as far as the public service is concerned, because it's not the same as if RTS is going to talk about Nis for 15 seconds in the morning programme and 15 seconds in the region's chronicle, or low television is going to keep the city informed all day long. That's when I was talking, and now I'm repeating, it's nice to know if there's water in Karaburma, it's nice to know if there's a six or not going, but I'm interested in whether there's a bus going between Nis and a Nis bath. I wonder if the ambulance has had any interventions and if the ambulance is working or not? What's going on? I'm interested in schools that don't work, what schools do they do? Is there a problem? I'm interested in everything about the local community, and it's nice to know if a bus in Novi Sad has come out to provide a service to the citizens and whether the tram is going to Belgrade. It's nice to know but it's not crucial to my city, probably to your environments where you come from. I think blindly voting the laws, especially these sensitive laws, we're doing a bear service in our fellow citizens. We'll charge the city's budgets. The question – how is it going to be paid extra, but how will it be projected that there is continuity in the information? And on the other hand, we will deny the rights of national minorities in the same way as information and available information, as do national minorities in Vojvodina. The notice that I received, after I made an amendment to the Media and Public Service Act, is that it is not precise how it will be financed. To repeat, I have proposed for the development of television, within Serbia, to be funded as a funded RTV Vojvodina, 70% of the paid subscription or fees to go to regional public service, and 30% to go to RTS. I think that's correct, that it's equalisation in the rights and obligations of Serbian citizens. And I have one more question for you, because all I'm saying is that the subscription is actually a tax, but the citizens will understand what I'm talking about before, if I say it's a subscription, that fee has a payment obligation. In case the citizens don't pay the tax, there's a forced payment. In my town, people already have problems with judicial perpetrators, not because they're irresponsible, not because they don't want to pay their dues, for the simple reason in the town of Nis, 36% of people don't work, 40,000 people in the city don't work, it's with family members, three per family, it's 120,000, half the city. What are we gonna do if people can't pay that subscription? Did you also predict it or will a law that treats this matter and threatens the citizens of Nis to lose their immovable property, only because they still have no jobs and that as one of my fellow citizens who lost his house, they fear that they will lose their immovable property if they can't pay a fee for a TV subscription. As a responsible man, I believe you've thought about it and I expect your answer, because when I get back to Nis, people will ask me what the minister said and what we're going to do if we can't pay. For now, I thank you, so I'll keep in touch with you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30683	The word has a minister. Here you go. (Alexandra Martinovic, from the post: Have you asked Boris Tadic what he thinks about it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30684	I'm sorry. I just need to clarify one thing, you're talking about regional public services. So the law clearly defined that Serbia has two public services. So I'm asking you to specify things here and stick to what they are, and now we're talking about changes and additions to the law. You were against the general exit of the state from the ownership structure of the media, it is absolutely your right, however, I would simply not now return the debate to something we had 11 months ago when media laws were passed. That's one thing. The second thing, I have to correct you, so the Ministry of Culture and Information is not doing privatisation, it's doing it by the Privatisation Agency and the Ministry of Economy. Also, if you're worried about how due to the extension of the deadline, which I think we've shown really one serious dose and social responsibility to give media who haven't responded as well as simply to complete the whole process, and you're asking -- how will local self-government fund them by October 31st, and you're not asking questions to finance them in case the state doesn't come out of the media ownership structure. Also, you mentioned a TANJUG and a hundred million as scheduled. That's the deadline until the process has to be completed and the funding stopped. So you'll simply be sure to submit the amendments yourself and we'll consider all these amendments, but don't return the debate on whether the state should or should not withdraw from the media ownership structure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30685	Tell me, Mr. Bliss. Replica? (Branislav Blažić, from the place: Well, I answered. I know you called, do you think you're replicating or what? Please, just tell me the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30686	Thank you. So, Mr. Minister, I was not against the law at all to get the state out of media ownership, I was just saying that if it happens that Serbian citizens have to have the same rights if they have the same obligation to pay a subscription, that is, fees and that then they need to form regional public services so that citizens have the same level of information from their local territory. When I spoke and asked what to do with the budgets. Well, you know, local self-government and state funding is based on budgets and the budget is made up of appraisals. Well, for the low-level budget appraisal, it was only until June, so the budget was planned. And if there's no money in the budget reserve, then the City of Nis has to rebalance the budget so he can define funding by September. So I've been thinking about what to do with local self-government, and I'm not talking about that in all cities, so probably Belgrade has problems with budgeting because people don't have enough money, which is a lot of unemployment and people just can't pay everything, all of their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30687	The word has Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30688	Respected ministers, respected parliament presidents, colleagues and colleagues, in line with EU requirements and standards that the state withdraws from the ownership structure in the media today there are amendments and additions to laws that essentially do not change the law. Our parliamentary group voted in favour of the law, so it will support changes and additions to the same law. It is here in the middle of an attempt to make it easy for those who have easily understood the legal standards adopted in parliament to have another chance to join the privatisation process. Yesterday, a session of the Committee on Culture and Information was held and a proposal to amend and supplement the law is supported. No MP, or member of the board of directors, has been opposed to supporting these amendments and amendments to the law in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30689	Thank you. The word is Vesna Marjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30690	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, one year after the adoption of a package of media laws that have been positively assessed by the European Commission and publicly recognised as the possibility to finally edit a media scene in Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Serbia falls on the first exam when it comes to implementing this law. It is no secret that at a time when these laws were passed, there was much talk in both the Assembly and the public about the lack or insufficient degree of media freedoms in Serbia and then, as the strongest response to the government, there was precisely that they had passed media laws and that they would now solve all the problems that led to objective objections from the professional public, Serbian citizens, representatives of opposition, civil society and so on. The Serbian government, as said to the ministry, only days before the deadline, has decided to move the privatisation deadline, so the deadlines they set themselves as a real deadline within which they will implement their commitments. The shift in time has also been done, as I said, at the last moment, without a strong enough argument, without the possibility of the matter being discussed in the media community, in the public and here in parliament. I will remind you that even when media laws were passed last year, that even then the European Commission's observation that the laws were good, but that they were brought into an emergency procedure, it was an observation that was very important. Now, a year later, we're not only changing the law, not only does the government show that it wasn't able to implement it in time, but we're doing it again in an emergency procedure, at the last minute and without sufficient arguments. In addition, I would like to remind myself that just a few days before the Government passed the draft of this law by emergency procedure, a debate took place at the Media Centre, which was attended by both the Minister of Culture and the Secretary of State and representatives of the Media Community, the press associations, and that was June 18th, and then the Secretary of State, quoted in the agencies, said he did not want a direct statement on which way this problem would be solved. So it's June 18th. Mr. Shubara, who led the privatisation agency, says, quotes: "The media did not believe that privatisation would take place, we have convinced them for months." Then one of the participants said, all this time there was an illusion that there would be an extension of the privatisation deadline, and the minister's answer to that was, in my opinion, one inappropriate arrogance and one manner, which unfortunately, lately he shows, it's that everyone else was guilty when he was instructed, even a well-intentioned criticism. I must admit that I have not yet heard that any government so far and the Minister of Culture has actually openly said that he was powerless to impose respect for the law, that he was powerless, what my colleague was talking about, that he applied his authority and authority to those who were obliged to respect them. So, the argument that everyone else is to blame, that it's the local media, that they're guilty, I don't know, media employees who are now a possible subject of privatisation, really don't stand. What's also very important for every country and when it comes to law enforcement, it's that this delay actually re-creates one disorder in the legal system and one legal uncertainty. For who knows which time, I'll say, it's not just happening in the term of this government, it's happened in terms of mandates and some previous governments, but I guess our goal is to move forward, when it comes to law enforcement, so who knows which time we pass some law, those actors and entities in society who are obliged to apply them and who apply them and respect the law, are being deceived. So, those who have submitted the documentation by now and have done everything necessary under the law are now being brought into an unequal position, because others who have not done so are now given the opportunity to do so within an additional period. There were words about costs and one of the colleagues already said and I also want to repeat it, I think it is necessary to repeat, I also pray to the Ministry of Culture, and also to the Government, that they do not send us any more explanations in which they keep saying that the proposed laws will not cause the costs of citizens and businesses. How can they not, when it comes to a hundred million dinars from the budget? In doing so, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is, from where these hundred million will be provided, given that, as far as I know, part of the budget that is foreseen for this purpose has already been spent to a large extent. So about 80% of these funds have already been spent. Will you do the rebalancing? Are you going to subtract, say, cultural institutions some means to transfer them to additional funding, extend media funding, or secure it from some budget reserve? And, of course, an additional question that I think has already been asked, but it's very important, nowhere is there mentioned from which funds local self-government will provide funds for that same purpose. What is also important, I think it will certainly be the subject of a screening that is probably already under way for the next progress report, that is the issue of the market. As you know, these media laws have been passed in great, dynamic co-operation and harmonisation with EU regulations and with representatives of the European Commission. One of the main objectives of the adoption of silent laws is to ensure competition in the media area. The extension of this deadline violates competition, first of all, I mean news agencies and Tanjug. So Tanjug will continue to finance from the state budget, while other agencies will continue to be alone on the market and manage themselves. In doing so, I want to say, 86 or 87 million, as defined for Tanjug over the next few months, is more than all three agencies together can accomplish on the market within a month. It's very important, and I think it's about one strangulation of media competition. Finally, there were also words about the rights of those who would possibly be able to, if the privatisation process fails, offer them to take free action. One question has already been asked. Probably a huge number of citizens signed up for those famous Dinkic actions, none of which had anything. This will now deprive them of their ability to participate in the free action process. Also, a very important thing that we need to know, those who take any free action will not have the opportunity to write off their debts, as will be the case with those who participate in the previous privatisation process, so again one, conditionalally speaking, inequality. I would also like to remind you that during the debate on the adoption of this law last year, the opposition MPs submitted amendments. One of the amendments envisioned a longer period of privatisation. I want to read the explanation, because I think it's very indicative and it talks about how government is and how many ministries have misjudged their options. In this explanation, he says – due to the current bad experiences in privatising the media, we suggest that this process be entered in a plan-wise way, not in a scythic and hasty way. That is why it is necessary to enter only after all the necessary laws are adopted that regulate this area, because only then will it give the potential investors a clear picture. The media area is sensitive and requires extra caution. One of the arguments is that in the meantime a change of the Privatisation Act was made, it was in late May, it was a month ago. So it wasn't seen that possibility, too, so the arguments that have been made that there is obviously no coordination between individual sectors in the government, I think they are. There were also some protocols about a very long period of debate between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Industry, or the Privatisation Agency, who is obliged to adopt the protocol? Therefore, I also ask you once again that because of some of your shortcomings in the work, you do not accuse the media or accuse the press of what is happening today. Finally, I will repeat, we have a new progress report coming up, and we all know that when the media laws were passed last year, that at the same time all European officials were told that they would insist, they would insist on applying the law. And, I repeat, this is the first evidence where the government has proved incompetent in that particular area. I also note that last year, by discussing the media, by representatives of the assembly majority, we heard that we are speaking some lies from the opposition, because, behold, reporters without borders have placed us in a high place and some other international organisations, a credible and independent international and European Association of Journalists. We know that Serbia, meanwhile, fell last year, dramatically in a report by reporters, and also in the report "Fridom House" achieved the biggest decline, the biggest drop of all countries on the 2014 ranking list. Serbia, when it comes to media freedoms, is today defined as partially free and is 80th in a total of 199 seats. The Democratic Party, of course, has submitted a number of amendments. Of course, we're just going to discuss them. In them we tried to in some way strengthen and provide obligations for customers when it comes to the program, because I think it is of the utmost importance for this transformation, for the citizens. I think it's the ministry's duty to protect the public interest and ensure the best possible quality of these programs. It's not just about finding media buyers and today it's not about what the media will look like. So the amendments will also concern, opportunities to specify the rights of the media that are in the languages of the national minorities. And an open question that you know for sure – what will happen to Radio Yugoslavia? I mean it not only in terms of the institution as such, but as the work it does. It's also a multi-year topic. I think it would be a shame for Serbia to lose its ability to broadcast the programme in short waves and foreign languages. Is there any possibility of doing it in such a short time, even though I don't know why the government hasn't gotten a little bit involved so far, to find a solution, I don't know, but I hope by extending, since the deadline is obviously going to be extended, that some solution will be found. The Democratic Party will not vote for this law. It will take part in the debate and I repeat, I believe this is the first sign that it is precisely in the most important area that is now important for Serbia, to join the EU, that the government has failed to test the implementation of such important laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30691	Thank you. The word is Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30692	I have to tell you, I disagree that this is the first law enforcement exam. I will draw your attention that if we except that all sublegal acts have been passed, which has also been expressed doubts that they will be brought in, in the meantime the first competitions for project co-financing of media content were conducted, somewhere in 60 local self-government. I think it's enough to read the last statement signed by both NUNS and UNS and media associations as they judge and how important a shift it is. I'll tell you that on June 17th, the digitalisation process, which is also in law, one of the three media laws, was a prerequisite to implement the digitisation process. Meanwhile, the director of the RTS public service was also elected. The media register is under way, which will be completed by August, which will clearly show the ownership structure of all the media in Serbia. The moment you said, in a way, the Minister's failure to implement the laws, I assume you were referring to the 2007 Culture Minister because my question – why did 2007 give up a very important segment of media reform? Yeah, we're running late right now, and we're gonna be four months late, but we're not giving up on that process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30693	Thank you. The word is Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30694	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, my question did not apply to the 2007 minister or to any previous year, as I do not think there exists in any of the world's parliaments to ask questions to former ministers. The question has been asked to you. I'm sure and I could draw criticism from certain processes we've had in the past, but it's simply not a topic right now and we're talking about the law, and I want to point out that you entered the ministry at the moment the previous government ended up adopting a media strategy. It's the basis of everything we're doing today. So, some continuity was there, that's one part of the story, and the other part of the story is that we don't ignore the fact that you passed this law, you gave that deadline, and you didn't meet that deadline, and that's a simple fact. My question to you is, what guarantees do we have that you will meet this deadline that you have now given because it is quite short, four months and what will happen to the deadlines of someone else who exists in the law? Let's say, the introduction of a tax that was mentioned a moment ago. We've heard there's a certain amount, but we still don't have a guarantee that the public service is ready to go over the charge for it. It's just that these are questions for you, and I'm sure there will be other questions, and you'll be convinced that right now because of what's happened today, we'll follow exactly what the deadlines are and what promises are made in those laws and we'll call the government to account for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30695	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30696	I just need to make a point. So, it's not true, you said -- it's exactly the price of a fee. It's not exactly the price of a tax, it's defined by law to be up to 500 dinars. If you say we are, so we did not respect the deadline, just imagine a situation where we respected this deadline and because those who were responsible for the local media because, according to the previous Privatisation Act and by this law, the responsible persons in the media are obliged to start the privatisation process and because of someone's irresponsibleness, that so many people who work in these media have lost their ability to get a new owner, and therefore continue to work. We've found a simple solution here that, I say again, it's a maximum of four months to extend this process.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30697	The word has Miletic Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30698	President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, co-workers of the Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about amendments to the Information and Media Act. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly adopted the new Information and Media Act in 2014, more specifically in August 2014, so today we have several members who will be in office to overcome certain discrepancies, to conform with the Law on Privatisation and to allow individual environments to do what they were supposed to do for the next four months. By this Act, I mean the Information and Media Act, the state has shown its strategic commitment to change the ownership structure, primarily by leaving the state of the media of course and local self-government, starting from an autonomous province and across cities and municipalities. This legal solution is the result of our determination to become part of the European family. So our goal is to join the EU. I remind you, Serbia was still defined for the European path in 2004 by the adoption of a resolution on EU accession. So if we aim to join the EU, then we must go this way in reforming and these laws concerning information and media. We must follow the standards of Europe in this area. In this regard, one of the goals that we must achieve on this path is to ensure full media independence, which is, above all, achieved by leaving the state of ownership over the media and that is one of the requirements that must be met. Our active relationship, I think primarily of the National Assembly towards the accession process, stems from the Resolution on the role of the National Assembly and the principles in the negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, adopted in 2013 and this document has been committed to bringing national legislation into line with EU law. We have a harmonisation with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, which lays down new deadlines for the completion of the privatisation of all enterprises so far unprivatised, i.e. enterprises in restructuring, whose majority or part is the owner of the state, i.e. local self-government. I would like to remind you that on 28 May of this year we adopted the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Privatisation Act, which states that all privatization entities are obliged to carry out a list and assess fair market value, total assets, liabilities and capital with a condition on 31 December of the last financial year, which is 2014, and that they deliver it to the Privatisation Agency within 30 days of the date of delivery of the request from the Agency. So here, too, the gap that exists between these two laws, these changes and additions are being resolved. The new privatisation deadline is given here in these changes and additions. It is October 31st, 2015, but provided that this deadline can serve as a further privatisation process for those media that launched the privatisation process, i.e. where a public call for the sale of capital was announced. Otherwise, if this is not done or will not be completed by 1 July of this year, then the privatisation process is suspended and ends by sharing actions without compensation for employees in enterprises engaged in this area. It is also important to recall that the law sets out the obligations of the buyer of capital to ensure the continuity of media content over a certain period of time. But here I'm going to say that it's worth considering in the direction of security maybe a longer period in which a buyer of capital has an obligation to maintain the continuity of media content. It would also be necessary, according to us from the SPS parliamentary group, to consider the possibility that Serbia, i.e. the public institution of the International Radio, would also be able to see the possibility. The federal public institution Radio-Yugoslavia, to provide the same deadlines for the completion of privatisation, as well as for all other media, given that the bill's proposer gave the establishment until July 31st and all other media until October 31st this year. So we have the same problems here as other media houses or companies in the privatisation process, and it shouldn't make a difference and discriminate against this institution. In this regard, we have also submitted as a parliamentary group an amendment which is in the function of equating the position of all entities privatising in this area, which means bringing and bringing and the Federal Public Institute of Radio-Yugoslavija into the same situation, in the same position. Therefore, the full transition of our society to market economy also involves the market in the media area, in the area of production of media content. So, they're going to have to go to the market, like in all other industries. But, of course, you don't have to look all black, given that there is a further possibility, and this law allows, that financing information and media can be made out of public income through project financing. The second question is that such a way of funding in the past was not present, so we are not used to it, which, of course, assumes a new one, a new one of competition and reaching a better quality in the field of information if such funds are to be obtained from the budget as a source of funding. However, I must point out that if we are talking about today's quality of the media, many media might be told that they are not responding to their original function, which is real information and appropriate content. Many media, in their desire to make fast money, resort to sensationalism, scandalous inappropriate content, which very often undermines the reputation of individuals and public figures, families, especially the reputation of state institutions, states in general, and our society itself, which is not really desirable. Many mechanisms could be used to account for that. So it's getting more and more so-called. yellow presses or tabloids, which are not originally transmitted to the information that has been verified, information that is confronted on multiple sides or which is contacted and the subject who is on the wallpaper when it is informed, but which is formed, adapts to the interests of groups and certain individuals or certain centres of power. Of course, this is not a general assessment and, fortunately, we have real and good examples in the media world that give hope that quality must win and that it must win the market. We are grateful to such media, we from the SPS parliamentary group, that they have not succumbed to the ham, the taste and the untrue. The media market in the field of information cannot be won by sensationalism, scandals and falseness, but by another objective approach in this area and by quality. As far as our Socialists are concerned, we have been with the media since 2000, even though we were opposition at the time. Why have we been with the media since 2000? We're from the '90s and how you learned a lot. So, from a time when the state practically owned a good part of the media, and of course these mistakes of that time will not be done again for sure. That's why we had our clear position on freedom of the media and when we were part of the ruling coalition, when it was adopted so-called. Dinkic's information law in 2009. We did not support this law, although we were part of the ruling coalition, because we were not in favour of the solutions that were then offered, because they limited the freedom of the media. To remind myself then, a legal solution has been proposed that the media would be shut down if they were 90 days in an account blockade, and we know what the crisis was at that time. Then there was also a mandatory deposit for the establishment of a medium that was not so small. Also, there were many problems in what was the publication of certain texts that could easily have been struck by the authorities, or then legal solutions. The whole professional and wider public has characterised the law as the introduction of media darkness. So this 2009 law was a complete control of the media by the state. In fact, last year, as a parliamentary group of SPS, of course, with our coalition partners, therefore, the ruling majority, we made the correction of those mistakes and such a law that was not good. Today, when we make great efforts to pave the way for the EU, we are obliged to imitate legislation with the EU and in the field of information without hesitation, too. Of course, the independence of the media, by way of the state's exit from the ownership structure or exit of the AP, or lower units of local self-government, therefore independence is not definitive. There are still numerous centres of power that will be able to control the media for a long time. We stand as an SPS parliamentary group on the stand to pass one law, as well as the Information and Media Act, as it is, is not what should be the ultimate result. Through many activities, through politics, through various actions, through various accompanying activities, through many mechanisms, we have to create a much better environment in which the market will dispel objective information, not information bought and ordered. I will remind you that the right of citizens to truly inform is constitutional law. So it's a constitutional category. The goal is to provide real and objective and timely information. Citizens must be spared from the untrue and unsavoury of some media, justifying themselves with money, but this issue is not only a matter of law, it is a matter of a broadcasting body, for programming advice, as well as for the conscience of those who, without any respect for the intelligence of the public, are inaccessible and inappropriate content and untrue. In any case, today, although I spoke on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group in a broader context, we believe that what is the subject of today's changes and additions is in the function of completing this process which will exclude the state and local self-government from the ownership structure of information houses, media houses, which is one of the assumptions for what is the ultimate goal, which is independence and objectivity of the media. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual establishment of cultural centres will be spoken by our MP, Mr Srdjan Dragojevic, so that I would not stick to it. Once again, I find that the SPS parliamentary group will vote for both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30699	We're moving on to the list. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30700	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, you have fulfilled within the deadline what Prime Minister Vukic announced in his exposé, which is that a set of media laws will be adopted. Today's session seeking to move the deadline for privatising the remaining media has its full justification. We, as a parliamentary group, supported a set of media laws and the Law on Public Information, but on behalf of our parliamentary group, I expressed concern that what is happening today and that what we believe was a good intention, the result turned out to be bad and that it might change. It's about privatization at all, not just the privatization of the media. We are one of the few parliamentary groups she considered, as regards the privatisation of the media, because of the sensitivity of the topic, because of the specific media scene, because of the difficult economic situation and everything else, in line with the recommendations of the European Commission, that very carefully, meaningfully and that the ultimate goal should be to improve the media scene, i.e. the survival of as many quality media as possible. Unfortunately, as well as general privatisation in Serbia, something that we have advocated, as representatives of the opposition in the 1990s, promising Serbian citizens that privatisation would make them better, that the economic situation would be better, that the individual's life would be better, not our fault, privatisation was done mainly in a criminal way, and that is the responsibility of all governments after 2000. Today when I listen to prominent representatives of these governments, when they criticise this law, everyone can talk about it in a bad way, except for them. Unfortunately, there is little media left to privatise and my concern is the one I pointed out when this law was passed in August last year that most of these media will be extinguished. What was the drive and intention of all of us, that citizens have better information, that it costs them less, that the state comes out of the media's ownership structure. I think that this ultimate goal, which you certainly want to achieve, I never doubt, will be left behind. Who's going to be happy about all this? Neither the citizens nor the MPs nor Brussels will rejoice. To me, and I have pointed out quite often, that, for this different spectrum of European solutions, our politicians after 2000 most often, often, I don't say that this is the case with you, but often for some extremely cunning reasons, they have taken the worst European solutions, unsuitable to our conditions, which has led to catastrophic privatisation and now citizens, we have risked our lives for reforms and the approximation of the EU and better life in all our segments, now citizens are asking us, and at least we are responsible for that, have you asked for privatisation, see what the consequences of privatisation are. Simply, we thought it was necessary to pass a special law on media privatisation, that the media was bought as potatoes at the market, that they were bought most often by people who, or had no experience working with the media, or had no idea what they were going to do with these media. What's good now in these changes, which you're imposing on the customer to set specific measures that can last up to five years, I think that deadline can be longer, why would they just impose specific measures, certain measures that would last five years. Then, it is good that you foresee continuity in the production of media content for electronic media, the obligation to maintain software content that was 12 months before the entry into force of this Act. It's all in spirit with those who spoke to our parliamentary group, just so some criminal doesn't buy a medium, stop dealing with this activity, stop respecting editorial policy, buy for small money, sell equipment, property, land, big money facilities, and say I cheated on the state, with the blessing of the state. Well, we're more sick than that because we don't have anything to do with it. Who's responsible for editing this area, first of all the state? Then, it is good that you predict continuity in maintaining media content in printed media, maintaining an editorial concept that was 12 months before the entry into force of this law, which is controlled by the Privatisation Agency, which is done by an expert in the proper profession, with cooperation with the competent regulatory body. Now, Minister, we have so far been left with an analysis of what you are certainly not responsible for. That is, what are the effects of the media privatisation so far? The conclusion of everyone is disastrous. What will be the effects of continuing, or the same approach to media privatisation? I'm afraid it'll be bad. We don't have many today, so TV stations, long-traditioned media such as Kragujevac light, Ibar news, is the uncertain fate of the oldest weekly in Serbia "Pančevac". When this Law was passed, I was one of the few MPs who felt that it was not necessary to give priority to investors who, eventually, would buy a medium, but why parallelally, if employees had the opportunity and wanted to establish some of their consortium to privatise the media, why not approve it? Why don't they have employees at the beginning of the same opportunity to either buy or buy an investor, but this way we'll leave what they won't want someone to buy, which is obviously not profitable, to leave it to the employees. You know what media employees say? And that's what life is. They say -- we could probably spend a year on our own financing that medium, with the condition that we sell apartments and houses and then stay on the street and the media shut down. The simple market in Serbia is that. Now, citizens are under the impression that getting out of media privatisation won't cost the citizens. That's not true at all. Citizens will continue to finance the media, either through the budget, or through project funding, through what they separate into local self-government, and the media will be financed from commercial...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30701	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30702	I'm done. I'm saying, these are the questions we're going to talk about in the amendments, so that we can all come up with a solution together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30703	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30704	Of course the state needs to get out of the media and such a law has been passed. It's a good attitude and there's no dilemma. There are other ways for Serbia's citizens to be informed in a valid manner, and this depends not on ownership of the media, but depends on the overall policy, on the overall state in one country. The current situation is unsustainable for many reasons. That's what a lot of people are guilty of, but it's not time to name them all, because it would take more than five minutes, how much time I have. This shift of deadlines, or the adoption of a new law amending these deadlines, is only proof of one thing, which is the ineffectiveness of the government's work. Whether it's your Ministry's fault, or whether it's the Ministry of Privatisation's fault that he's conducting that privatisation through the Agency, it's completely irrelevant. It's important to move the deadlines for no reason whatsoever. The local self-government is guilty, so why didn't you put it into the law that local self-governments would have consequences if they didn't do their part of the job by June 1st? It's the media's fault, why didn't you put the punishment law on it if someone didn't do their part of the job by that date? We cannot now resort to local self-governments that are usually in the majority, there are the same political forces that run your government. So it doesn't make any sense. The problem is how do you continue financing these media until the end of October? It's not just a matter of how much money it is, it's a question that there's no money in the budgets for that item. It means that budget rebalancing is necessary otherwise it will be an accidental spending of funds, which is a crime. This extension is just an extension of the agony of those poor people who are least guilty of anything or not guilty at all. These are people who work in these media outlets, especially those who actually work there, because there are a lot of people who have been brought there as well as in the public sector. Category brought in. Unfortunately, both in the media and in culture, the worst ones have been brought in. It's been a while -- it's nothing, let's put it in the market for some theater, which is otherwise funded 100% from the budget or in the marketing of some TV that is financed 100% from the budget. It's a condition. That's gotta stop. That's why the NS won't vote for this bill. Of course, he will be adopted by a majority who does not have to be responsible for his decision, and he would have to be responsible. Press pressure will not be completed by privatising public media. There's pressure on private media that's double. Or the pressure in the right sense of that word is on the verge of someone standing a pipe pointing at their head, and there's this slight part, that's, say, tax forgiveness. Then this medium becomes a government medium or pardon for traffic offences, forgiveness of criminal acts, forgiveness of traffic offences with deadly consequences, ambassadorial places, places in the investigative authorities of the Serbian government where people who were still today, if I am not mistaken directors or editors of the media, are dealing with investigations of the murder of journalists, which is absolutely one non-sensus, regardless of good intentions, regardless of personal commitment. Investigations are supposed to work, killing journalists should be done by the authorities or we should stop those organs so we can make ad hoc commissions that will investigate everything. If you can't enforce one law, then there's only one cure, or you can tell who stopped you from doing it, because the government is an executive government, so you have to enforce the law that we're making. Either you say - he stopped me or you stopped me and resigned. And the question is, what about the privatisation of 500 and some companies that have the same deadline, July 1st? Will they get a discount too? Will their agony be extended, or will they not? I hope that deadline won't be moved. Generally, I repeat again, we will vote against. Such a bill is a proof of the government's disorganization and incompetence. Press pressures have to stop, whoever owns them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30705	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30706	You mentioned a very important topic, which is the subject of the safety of journalists, and I'll remind you of a meeting that was here in March of the month. This was the OSCE Conference dedicated fully to the topic, which was also attended by Dunja Mijatovic and which was organised in co-operation between the Ministry of Culture and Information and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the OSCE. So that is one really important topic. As far as the deadline is concerned, I think it's far more important that we give another chance and that these media reforms are not stopped as was the case in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30707	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Zivkovic? (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. ) Well, here, you have the right to a replica, but in the presentation of Mr. Minister, I haven't heard a single thing that might give you a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30708	If you haven't heard anything, then don't give me the replica. Everyone in their right mind has heard. Anyone who wants to do their job in this room, either as an MP, or as someone who sits on that side, could hear the reasons. So you don't need to be nice to me, you just do your job. I think absolutely...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30709	Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30710	... And when you want to discuss with the MPs, sit in your seat and then sign up for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30711	Mr. Zivkovic, as chairman, I have an obligation and the right to ask you why you think, if I don't think you have the right to replication, that you have the right to replication and yours was simply to say which sentence you consider to be entitled to replication. Mr. Secretary didn't mention you. He didn't mention your name or name. He didn't mention your party. He didn't mention anything that would give you the right to a replica. And besides, I said, okay, here's your right to the line, and now you're breaking up with me. I mean, I don't know why. Now I ask you to say in the first sentence what sentence has given you the right to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30712	I have no idea how to explain to you how to do your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30713	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Then you have no right to a replica. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30714	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, when the former prime minister is talking about freedom of the media as a candidate for the new prime minister in the election campaign has torn up a newspaper, then we have to ask ourselves, what's wrong with this assembly? There's that folk expression that no longer reads as it reads, it says - it'll tear it up like a Zivkovic newspaper. So, the term was something different, but given that someone in the election campaign, when the most sensitive period for both the media and the voters and the electorate lists, found it appropriate to rip out a public note registered under the Press Act and which may have broken some bon tone, but there are courts on which it is proven, but there is no evidence in the election campaign of freedom of the media by publicly tearing one of the printed media in front of the cameras and other media, thus showing some facts, facts, or even untrues about you. So, even in such situations if you want to be prime minister, if you were already prime minister, you have to take care of the freedom of the press, and even that kind of freedom to say something bad about you, and if they say it and it's not true, there are courts where you prove it and you have the right to proper moral but material satisfaction. It is not instructions for someone who was prime minister, who was running for prime minister again, who was on the election list of a former regime party, to draw freedom of the press in the election campaign by freely tearing out one of the daily newspapers. Independent media is a prerequisite for genuine democratic society, and that is where we agree. Someone is talking about an extension of agony due to these four months in which or the privatisation of the media will come to the exit of the state from the media or the employees of these media will get part of their ownership, i.e. get action and become media owners in which they are employed. It's not right when someone was 12 years old, and for me somewhere and 15 years they've had time to do what they didn't do and now someone who hasn't done it for 12 years, it bothers him to extend the four-month period when it's unequivocally happening next – that unless there's a purchase, the privatization media owners will be employed themselves. I believe that greater freedom cannot be and I agree that many of the media have acted, especially in the previous period, such as mirrors of ruling structures in these local self-governments, or if the controller was a state and embellished the face of those parties, those political factors that ruled on that territory and who had found their founding rights over these media, and then it is a good thing that the state is finally coming out of these media and most likely that this is not just the request of some of our MPs here, but that it is about the EU to withdraw from the media and that in such a way we free, even in part, a space for objective, true and timely information. Also, media is influenced by advertisers. The privatisation of the wild and predatory that was carried out allowed only certain economic persons and certain economic entities to be and can be advertised given that others do not have money. Mostly they advertise on all the media and when you get a merger of politicians and their tycoon friends, who advertise on the media, and when in the media directors and editors say or get information that someone will no longer advertise if they mistalk about their political friends and if you have a political pressure through founding rights and if you have economic pressure from advertisers on that medium, it is no wonder that in this way it affects the political circumstances and political opportunities in the country and in local self-government and thus profiling political parties, political forces. This creates the results of the elections in a certain way. With these changes and additions that we are discussing today, the state will finally withdraw after four months, or local self-government from these media. They will be privately owned and will belong to those who are employed in these media, and in such a way we will finally take that balance off ourselves, the burden of having a major impact through politics on the editorial policy in the media. As some of the victims of media pressures, I can tell that in the 1990s, the public service even told me out of the National Assembly by having my tone covered with a ton of speaker, so whenever I answer the word, then it will be – respected viewers, you who later joined the program, etc., every speech I gave was covered by speaker speech. I'm sure I was one of the biggest victims of these media pressures. Since my People's Peasants' Party has never been in executive power, it's never had much resources, often and today I'm subject to all kinds of pressures, and sometimes some untruths, but it doesn't occur to me to catch and tear up some newspapers. Today, the parties of the former regime are mostly talking about censorship. In the press and electronic media, you can read and hear about how censorship is in Serbia. If there are censorships in Serbia, how is it to be talked about and written in the media? If there is one, then you couldn't hear or talk about it in the media because if censorship is there, then there's no media that can publish it. By the way, I can responsibly claim that the censorships are gone. There may be one or two media, one printed and one electronic, which may be a little more prone to the government, but there are also, I'll say, dozens of media that are prone to the government. Therefore, it is not necessary to prove too much and I do not know that in the near past or at any time that, for the Director General of the National Public Service, you choose a person who is unequivocally prone to opposition forces, even forces that have not even been placed in this House. Is there any more evidence that this authority, I will not say that it is quite democratic, but that in this democratic procedure in the freedom of the media it has gone far from all the governments and all the authorities that have ruled since 2000 to this day? To be honest, if I had been Prime Minister and I had asked myself a little more, and I had participated in the Serbian government, I would not have allowed such a fact, regardless of what I was democratically defined, but it shows that the government is even ahead of us Members of Parliament, that it has decided that the National Public Service should be controlled, that the Director-General of this service, the one who will influence the editorial policy, that it is the person who is least favored and who is at the moment least favored by the parties who are ruling in the Republic of Serbia. As it looks on the other side, I'll describe it to you. On local TV Indji, where a party to the former regime has been running power since 2012, as a national MP, and to this day on that tv, I have zero minutes of point zero seconds on that medium, hours and days are not to be spoken of. So it's a medium exclusively mirror that enhances the party's face of the former regime. They haven't even been able to announce that I was elected in 2014, and it seems to me that they haven't even published for 2012 that I was elected as a MP and that I am the only MP from that municipality. It wasn't enough for them to at least publish that fact and that information, that someone in some elections was elected a MP. Well, when they talk about censorship, I am obliged to remind them of how the party of the former regime behaves in my municipality, the Indji Municipality, and how much time it spends on its political opponents, and even the bearers in that municipality of the highest certain functions, so to someone who lives and lives here on the territory of that municipality. I will dare at the end of my discussion to say that there is control over the media in Serbia, one medium is even owned by United Group, the owner of that United Group, is David Petreus, head of the CIA and former commander of the military forces in Afghanistan, therefore, this medium where the opposition champions are happily seen, it is their right to represent themselves on that media, but it is my right to say who is the founder of that media, there they are, and so there is, there is around, if someone is called out of the governing structure, there is two to one to three in favour of the opposition on roaming. I will say that on RTS, I often watch these informative shows, usually of one ruling MP, regardless of what makes the structure of Parliament here more than 200 members of the ruling parties, that there must be one and sometimes two opposition MPs, so that is more evidence that at least in public service, where the state is asked, there is no control. The regret that one or two, that one printed, one electronic media is on the side of the government, may agree that for some reason some media owners are more sympathetic to the government, but I also see that they are publishing information about the opposition, so in that list I saw, which is allegedly favored by the government, I saw yesterday a report that is more important than a report on any ruling representative, who informed his readers about asking questions, designs, images in the National Assembly of Serbia's hall. I'll say the media is under control, but not the government. Most media in Serbia are controlled by those who are against the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30715	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, and let the MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30716	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, 11 months ago, three media laws were passed that, as you said in the debate, created a framework for improving the media situation in Serbia, a media picture. Today, 11 months later, you come with amendments and additions to one of these laws and of course this is an opportunity to talk about the results of these laws and what their implementation was. I agree with the assessment that the government failed this exam. What is the content of this law? The content of the law is that the deadline that you provided for your law and said that the privatization of the media should be completed by 1 July, I have stenographic notes, and not others, that it should be completed by 1 July 2015, that is, in four days, five days from today. Why isn't that? You talked here a little bit about it, putting the blame on everyone but yourself. I'm sure there's guilt in those others, but there's guilt with you, Mr. Minister. You could have said what you didn't do to end the media privatisation by this deadline. Perhaps if you had come and said – the director of the Tanjug Agency who did not finish the job within this time period and Tanjug was not privatized until July 1st, if for nothing else, only for that. A few months ago you left, I see the problem here, to interpret this law that it doesn't really have to end the privatisation, but to apply for privatisation. In the end, you've implemented it in this law. Now you say – who does not submit the privatisation documentation by July 1st, there is a suspension of privatisation and will go on to models that include, among other things, the division of actions, the offer to employees take action. So -- offer, they can also refuse if they think they can't take the lead on these media. There is one problem that the Privatisation Agency has interpreted that all citizens who have received action at some point can't get it now and we have amended it to try to resolve it, to Article 1, and we will see whether you will accept this amendment, so that some media may have extended their lives, so that, regardless of whether employees have applied for free actions in 2008, they will also have the right to receive the actions of media houses in which they are working today and to continue their lives. I want to talk a little bit about Serbia's media image today after 11 months. Today we have an annual report by the State Department on human rights, which characterizes the state of Serbia, among other things, that there is harassment and pressure on journalists who run the self-censorship, so I read on the news, that's some agency news. These are the same grades we've been listening to all these months, the past 11. She spoke to a colleague about how you boasted here last year, when the story of censorship and self-censorship started, how the reporters without borders raised us in 2014 compared to 2013 for some three places. When this year's report came in for 2014 and the biggest drop, out of 13 places, you shut up, there are no reporters without borders for you, there is no rating for them, it doesn't count. We have a statement from the head of the European Commission, or representative of the European Commission in Serbia, which today says that the media strategy in Serbia has not been implemented and calls on the government to implement a media strategy until the end. He notes that these changes in the law will extend the privatisation deadline by four months. What does this mean specifically, since Serbia's progress report on European integration will be published somewhere in October? It will be determined, certainly, that the media strategy has not been implemented until the end, because this deadline you are now proposing is October 31st this year. So it probably won't end, given the efficiency of the government that it has shown over the past 11 months, privatisation over the next month, so that the assessment could be positive. It is absolutely certain that it will be negative, at least in this segment, and we will see estimates of censorship, pressures on the media, about how hickeys are handled in the media in Serbia. I'm sure that assessment will be negative, and you'll try to hide it somewhere and not talk about it, but we'll talk about it here. One of the things the law predicted was the register. You said, among other things, that the register had to be established by the law by February 13th, and then six months until August 13th to fill it. Here, I took today what that register looks like and there's nothing in it. This is for the "Politika" list, just some I took, "Today", means no single data, except for the basic data. There's no record of the editor responsible, of the publisher, of the money, of the circulation, otherwise the obligation. The legal obligation is to make the circulation by 31 March, for the last year until 31 March, it must be entered in the register. You probably think they'll sign up by that August 13th. I'll be on August 14th, believe me, as soon as I get up, I'll go to the site and see what's in this data. I have no reason to believe that there will be more information on August 14th compared to what is today. I invite others to do it, because it's very interesting. We've got a picture of what's going on in the media. We've had attacks of certain media on people, public figures, non-public figures, representatives of some independent bodies, without any possibility or interest of a state or any authority to react. He had the fact that a national broadcaster has been broadcasting for months an obscenity program, hour by hour, 24 hours of retail and the state has no mechanism. They say we can't react. They should be putting on that stamp, whether it's 12, 16 or 18 years old, and that's all the state can do, I think, to you. Or maybe he can do something more to stop broadcasting the lowest possible program, the lowest possible standard of one program? That program is, unfortunately, the most visible. You know that, too. When you look at these ratings, which we have introduced as a criterion and this law, you will see that this is the most visible program, and probably something that, by quality, or unquality, has not been seen on domestic televisions so far and the state is not responding to it. I want to ask you one question, given that amendments to the law 11 months ago have abolished something that has not been revived, unfortunately 1.5% of the funds from the subscription that should have been allocated to the Serbian Film Centre. You explained that it did not come to life, so we will abolish it, and you said, "Here, there is a Creative Europe Fund with a billion-and-a-half euro budget, so there is a chance for our cultural workers, film workers to fight for money. I want to know how many of them and how much money they've been fighting for. Also, let me ask you, I have given one amendment, you may be the shortest deadline of all these deadlines you have proposed for Radio Yugoslavia, just a month extension, and I have suggested that this fate applies to them as well as to Tanjug. First of all, here, I found that you defined the public interest in the field of public information last year in the debate, so you talked, talked and talked, among other things, that this public interest represents information in the Serbian language of members of Serbian people living outside Serbia's territory, such as informing the foreign public in foreign languages, when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Serbia. If we don't solve this problem of Radio Yugoslavia and these two things of public interest, and there are other things, but because of the time I've cut short, as you've defined, we won't have a way to achieve it. I call upon you to save your destiny. The issue of Radio Yugoslavia depends solely on the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30717	I thank you, Mr. Gursich. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30718	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm reporting under Article 107. - Parliament's dignity. You had to react because we had a public call here by a distinguished fellow minister. So, a call from someone who is a representative of the legislative authority to a representative of the executive authority to replace the directors of the media who did not go into the privatisation process. It's something that's completely scandalous, because the minister has no right to replace the directors of the media and it's something really inappropriate. Maybe that's how it was done in their day, but today, thank God, it's not working anymore. These reality shows are also mentioned. Well, that was introduced in your time, Your Honor. It's in the jurisdiction of these independent bodies that you've also introduced here, which I don't know why they're not responding to, and otherwise all these programs have been introduced because of the interests of certain companies that had the advertising content, which have been largely funded by your former party. Well, then you should have, say, applied all that stuff to those programs, which are really a bit tasteless, but it's your fruit and what you've been sowing here, so today this society has to reap it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30719	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica! Mr. Djurishich, on what basis, when there is no replica? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Where does it say there is no replica? Find me a member that says I don't have the right to a replica. Mr. Djurishic, at the violation of the Rules of Procedure? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: This is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this has been a turning point in my statement. ) Mr Djurisic, MP Djukanovic reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, quoted a member and said he felt that I had injured the Rules of Procedure as the chairman, because I allowed you to speak out of the agenda. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: He replicated to me. I really don’t know how to break the Rules of Procedure to give you a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I am looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Giurishic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30720	The President-in-Office, Article 103, speaks of how an MP has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and to list various matters. I invite you to read it, it's a slightly longer member, there's a side and a half, but you can do it, I don't doubt it. He has an obligation by the chairman to react if the breach of the Rules of Procedure is misused. The previous report clearly misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure as an institution, as the previous speaker was plowing here with my discussion. So, in no way can my discussion of the state of the media today and what programme is being broadcast be an insult to Parliament's dignity. Please give me a word for the replica, because what you're interpreting is that there's no replication to the breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't say. It's in the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. - if the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly is offended, etc. etc. So, in his presentation. The previous speaker has exhibited something here, as I am now exhibiting. For the sake of truth, I did not call on the minister to replace editors of any media, but I was talking about the state agency Tanjug, which was obliged to complete the privatisation process under a law that has not yet been amended, which we have yet to amend, to complete the privatisation process by 01 July this year. What this process is not over is someone's responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30721	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30722	We can't have someone up there right now by extending the deadline... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30723	Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: That's all I was talking about. Look at the synopsis of what he's saying. Mr. Djurishic, we can only look at the stenographic notes. That's one thing. The second thing, Mr. Djurisic, here I am, an MP for 18 years, and you are also a long MP in the National Assembly, no one has ever received a replica on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: Where does it say? You know that very well. Secondly, Mr. Djurishic, you were just doing what you challenged the previous speaker. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Which one? Mr. Djurishic, you spoke for two minutes, and I did not interrupt you, even though you replicated. In about 50 seconds, Mr Djukanovic said that he felt that I had violated the Rules of Procedure and did not use a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the way you have been for two minutes, but only in one sentence did he say why he felt that I had violated the Rules of Procedure. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: I am in the same way as he is. ) I would like you to have insight into the steno notes and see if this is the same thing as Mr Djukanovic and what you are. But anyway, I don't want to talk to you, I was just obliged to give you an explanation, which is why I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure and ask you if you want the Assembly to declare itself on Voting Day. Yeah. Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vesna Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30724	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 107, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker, therefore, is not a colleague of Djurisic, since we are at the same time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30725	Miss Marjanovic, that member has already been advertised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30726	It's not. No, he advertised 103, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30727	The 107th is Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30728	No, 103, I'm now making an objection to the presentation of the speaker who spoke before me. So we're not talking about the same injury. Please don't. So let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30729	Please, it's not worth convincing with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30730	Law students in the first year of college learn a Latin saying called "Ignorance yuris night," which means that a citizen can't stand up from sanctions he doesn't know the rights. If that applies to every citizen of Serbia, then it must apply even more to each MP. Therefore, I think the MPs who answer for the word must know that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30731	Well, I can't let you use a breach of the Rules of Procedure for Replication. Mrs. Marjanovic, I could have done the injury myself, as chairman, at no time did you say that. [[Vesna Marjanović, from the place: It is not a replica, it is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly.]] You said and you talked about MPs who had a presentation before Mr. Djurisic at the moment. It can't be that way. You can only point to the injury I've done, as chairman. You know that very well, you've been a Member for a long time, and you know the Rules of Procedure very well. (Vesna Marjanović, from the place: Can I explain? I don't want to do it with you anymore. (Vesna Marjanović, from the city: You are here to understand the Rules of Procedure. I understand, but not in such a way that you want to use damage to the Rules of Procedure as a replica. (Vesna Marjanović, from the city: You do not understand the Rules of Procedure. ) (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Since the intention is now to obstruct the work of the Assembly, as Mr Djurisic also appears again for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I am giving a three-minute break. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic, in order of the reported. Here you go, Mr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30733	Dear colleagues, this discussion has taken a bit of a turn, and much has been said in previous exhibitions, which I would disagree with. First, it seems to me that we are constantly entering into one mistake regarding the substance of property, or property. Doesn't mean if it's private, it'll be good. Also, it doesn't mean if it's something social, it's a state that's bad. What's the biggest problem? My friend Giursich, I've kept my mouth shut. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: You can't take a minute off.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30734	Please, Mr. Djurisic, allow Mr. Stojmirovic to complete the exhibition.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30735	We may have followed the people for a little while, but the frog saw the horse soaring, and so did she. Someone sent a directive, someone advised that everything should be privatised and that it would then be honey and milk in Serbia. That's not how it's gonna be. Why? Because it doesn't matter who owns it, it matters who manages it, and it matters who controls it. We failed on those two segments. The basic rule in management requires that when the owner who runs his firm gets to the level where the necessary knowledge goes beyond it, he employs management, professionals, people who will manage the company. Also, the state hires professionals who know their jobs and who will do it. What's the problem here in Serbia? The problem is that after 2000, well, here it is to this day that many incompetent people have come very far, i.e. to take many important places, places where they cannot answer with their knowledge. Now, it's easy for them to do whatever they want, because they think they know everything they want, and they can only accept what they can do. There's our biggest problem. It's important to choose people who will manage and it's important to control it. We've missed a lot about control, and that's why we're having these anomalies. It's tied to an overrun. I agree with all the critics. It is said, "It will be then, and now the term has changed." But we know that when defining goals, it's normal to set a deadline. What happens if something stops us from meeting that deadline? That's why there's this control that we're able to move that deadline so we can achieve our goal. It is far more important for us to put into the desired state of this media law than to complain about the fact that the deadline has been moved. Three months, four months, six or a year, it doesn't matter, it's important to do it as it will suit the citizens of Serbia. We have a chance, if we're going to be honest, to look at what media reports look like at a time when control was much greater than that of the state than today when most of these media are private. We've seen a lot of press releases that don't serve the owners or those who write about it. At the end of my presentation, I would ask Mr. Minister, because I have a request from the citizens and the management of the municipality of Bosilegrad, to answer me, or to answer them. They sent a memo to the Ministry asking to get rid of their case. They have a minority medium that is within the cultural centre, so they want to know what will happen to their media because, as far as I understand them, this deadline is not valid for them, but for them it will be related to July 1st. Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30736	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30737	Chairman, I believe that by your actions you have injured Article 112. Rules of Procedure. The member says – if the president of the National Assembly cannot hold the session regularly, he will set a break until order is established. You've put in here a way to break it up, set a break to cancel all those word returns by injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30738	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. Article 112 – if the President of the National Assembly cannot hold the session regularly, he will set a break until the order is established. That's what that member says. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. I thank you. The assembly will declare itself on Voting Day. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Article 103, infringement of the Rules of Procedure. Well, you can't point again. You can't, Mr. Gursich. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: I can take it. Give me your word on the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Tasovac, you have your word. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: "Give me your word." ) Mr. Djurishic, I can only give you a warning because you do not allow the work to continue. (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I am asking you for a word.) Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't do that, Mr. Gursich. Mr. Tasovac, come in. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30739	We've had more meetings on the subject. It's about cultural and information centres. So, just this part that is the media, so they stop existing on July 1st, but they can reregister through the civil sector and thus continue to function without the state's participation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30740	Thank you. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Marko Djurisic, from the scene: I asked for a word. ) Mr. Djurishic, I ask you to allow the work to continue. (Marco Djurisic, from the scene: I asked for a word after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djurishich, here you go. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30741	Thank you, Chairman. You've injured a member of 103 who says the MP has the right to explain within two minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30742	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Yes) Thank you. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30743	I want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, too. You, Mr. Becic, must make it possible for MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30744	Miss Jerkov, you've been given the right order of the speaker, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30745	Before me, the championship has an MP who was advertised by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30746	Thank you. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30747	Can you let him explain himself? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30748	Thank you. Since MPs, Miss Jerkov and Mr Djurisic do not want the session to continue, I am setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] (Igor Becic): We continue to work. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Do you want to speak to Miss Jerkov or move on to the next debater, if you don't want to speak. Here you go. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30750	I want you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30751	Do you want to speak or move on to the next debater?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30752	You have no right to do what you're doing now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30753	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Miss Jerkov, if you do not allow the work of the National Assembly to continue, I will give you a warning. Let me, please, you didn't get the word. Let Mr. Pavicevic speak. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30754	Ladies and gentlemen, the minister is not in the O.R., Mrs. Jerkov is right, Mr. Djurisic is right... I can't speak until there's no minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30755	Mr. Pavicevic, the minister will be back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30756	Where's Minister Tasovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30757	Mr. Pavicevic, you're right, the minister is coming back, he's gone for a moment, I'll give a word to someone else until the minister returns.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30758	Mrs. Jerkov was right here, the Rules of Procedure should be respected here, I think.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30759	The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Is Miss Stojkovic in the O.R.? No, I don't. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go. Ms. Jerkov, I ask you, if anyone wants to be a Member of the Parliament of Jerkov and Mr. Djurisic to obstruct the work of today's session, where none of the MPs are in any way towards your parliamentary group, do anything that would make you do it, I believe this is an attempt to conduct the session in this way and we cannot, as chairman, allow it. So if you want to talk about the agenda, you have a chance. If you want to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that was before the break, you won't be able to do that. If you want to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure which was now at this point you can. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) You want to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that was now. Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30760	A 27th member has been injured who is talking about having the chair chair chaired over the application of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30761	I can't take care of myself when you don't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30762	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30764	I said exactly what an MP should do to report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, which member, and now I'm going to say why. You've set a five-minute break. You continued the hearing after two minutes. Mr. Secretary wasn't in the O.R., he heard your five minutes, came out probably to freshen up, I don't know, and we couldn't start the debate because the minister wasn't there. And in the previous break, you also set a break for three minutes and proceeded after a minute. So the same minister was out, and we couldn't go on because you don't respect what you define. So you say three minutes, five minutes, that lasts one, two, sometimes we don't start on time, so we wait, so instead of starting at ten we start at ten and fifteen, ten and twenty. So, please respect the Rules of Procedure. What you said and respected to the end, nothing more, nothing less. And, I don't know by which member of the Rules of Procedure, I must now say, you're interpreting that after a break someone can't report on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chairman? Where does it say that the timing of the break eliminates it? I would really like you, after 18 years of your years in this House, to find this member of Parliament who speaks of the MP being unable to report after a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30765	Mr. Djurisic, as you have said, does not say in the Rules of Procedure that the MP cannot report after a break, does not say that he can, so that I, as chairman of the debate at the National Assembly, can not report on the laws on the agenda, on the democratic debate, on the debate where MPs, where the other MPs are waiting to report to talk about the agenda, I have to establish order in the National Assembly. If you and Miss Jerkov do not allow the work to continue and the MPs have their right to expose and speak in the National Assembly, I must, as chairman, do so in this way, resort to breaks until order is established and until I have the opportunity to continue the debate. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: You did not ask me if I wanted to plead? Here you go. I don't know what that arm means to you, Miss Marjanovic. Excuse me, do you want the Assembly to plead. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes, I want him to plead. () Of course, it will come out. Here you go, Miss Marjanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30766	I think you just hurt a member of the 107th National Assembly's dignity again because you thought we were preventing regular work, and you just said, Mr. Becic, that no chairman in history has ever spoken, you evaluated my colleague and said she would not get the right to speak in order of speakers, which is her inalienable right, unless she obeys your request. That's never happened before. Never. I will indeed initiate that we also talk to European institutions about what parliament looks like today in Serbia and how you treat the opposition. I'm telling you seriously, it's really unheard of how you deny us the right to speak. Thank you, and I'm asking that we make that clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30767	Well, Miss Marjanovic, I'm obliged to give you an explanation, it's just outrageous that you're not telling the truth. I haven't said a single moment, you can talk wherever you want and whatever you want, you're used to saying what's not true anyway. I didn't say for a moment that I would deny Miss Jerkov's right, I just gave her my word, asked if she wanted to speak. She said she didn't want to talk, and I moved on to the next debater. Miss Jerkov, do you want to speak in the agenda? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Of course I want to speak in the agenda.) So why don't you talk when I give you my word? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: I want to advertise the Rules of Procedure first. ) Would you like to advertise the Rules of Procedure? Here, advertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30768	Mr. Becic, article 100. You just told your colleague Marjanovic that she is used to not telling the truth anyway. Please explain immediately what the Vice-President of the National Assembly means when he says that an MP is used to not telling the truth, or if you have said it as an SNS MP, please report for the word, get down from where you sit, leave one of the vice-presidents to the presidency, so that as MPs we can discuss who is used to telling the truth, and who is used to cheating on citizens, but don't let the vice president get involved in the debate, because the Rules of Procedure does not allow you. Secondly, it's not true that I said I didn't want to talk. Of course I want to talk, that's why I applied, but I don't want to speak in the conditions in which three MPs before me have been reported to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and by the rules of this Rules of Procedure, I need to get word, and you're blackmailing me by asking me if I'm going to give up my right to point out to you that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure or I'm going to give up my right to speak on the agenda for which I applied to speak. I will not give up on any of those two rights, nor do you have the right to ask me to choose which of the two rights I have, because both of them belong to this Rules of Procedure, or we can organise a debate so that only MPs of the ruling coalition speak and we remain silent, because it is obviously your intention here, but that you know won't be able to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30769	Miss Jerkov, the public of Serbia sees this and sees how you try to obstruct the work of the National Assembly. I don't want any more part of it. Feel free to report on whatever basis you want, say as much as you want, whatever you want. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: It is my right. ) If you think that this is your right, that we are not talking about the agenda, that we are not talking about issues that are important to the citizens of Serbia, but that you are reporting for non-existent violations of the Rules of Procedure, please come in. I don't mind. And as for what I said to Mrs. Marjanovic, I meant not her personally but your MP group. For days you've been saying that, it's no problem at all, I'll call Miss Jerkov as soon as I have a colleague to replace me. I'll get back to you, but I don't think you'll like what I'm about to tell you. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Report for discussion, say so. That's why I'm not talking right now. I'll call you when I get a chance to answer it. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Yes) Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30770	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 107(1) of the National Assembly’s dignity. I think that today's topic on the agenda in the Serbian Parliament is extremely important both because of the value of the media and because of the value of public information, but also because of the 2,000 people I believe are very closely following today's course of discussion. Two thousand people whose working future depends precisely on this law and on this debate. I appeal on behalf of the SNS, which is waiting very patiently for the order to speak, we are very patiently putting up with insults, and this is not the first, certainly not the last day, but I urge my colleagues to refrain from today's amputation and to think about those people who are following today's debate, about those people who expect solutions from us, and to try together in today's discussions to find some people who have fallen asleep and work in public information, to wake up this discussion, to use this next time, for the next four months, to find and be ready for both privatisation and recapitalisation and, more importantly, to provide all media in Serbia with the same and equal conditions for functioning. I think this time is the law. Someone will say it's good, someone will say it's bad, but what's inevitable is that this process is over. This kind of discussion will only confuse people. We're just gonna put them to extra sleep, and I think that's bad. That's why, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30771	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30772	I'm done. One more sentence. For this reason, I ask you, as I appeal to other colleagues and colleagues, to discuss the law, to discuss solutions rather than some of our vanitys and what no one in Serbia will benefit from.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30773	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I have just tried to ask the DS MPs to continue the debate at the National Assembly. That's what I tried to do with my breaks, but it wasn't worth it. Thank you. We are going back to the order of the MPs by signing up for the word. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30774	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just so there's no confusion about what's going on today in this law of great haste that he will be adopted as soon as possible, this law is moving the deadline for the application that this National Assembly, in this assembly, with this majority, was adopted less than a year ago. Namely, the law set a deadline for the media to be privatised by July 1st 2015. We, two or three days ago, so just a few days before that deadline, came up with a law suggesting that this deadline should be extended, so that citizens simply don't have some false picture of us editing some kind of media image in Serbia. No, we are moving the deadline for the law that this same government proposed and this same congregation majority adopted, and then the government was unable to implement its law, which it passed. This is not the only law this council has passed, and then this convocation and extended its validity. On the contrary, those are the laws that were sufficient. These are the laws on amendments to the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Standardisation, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Private Security, I apologize, there are a lot of them, the Law on Energy, the Law on the Amendments of the Law on the Return of Imposed Property and Compensation, the Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Property, the Law amending the Law on Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Notes, the Law amending the Law on High Education, the Law amending the Law on Health Insurance, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the CG in the context of the EU accession, and, and so on simple, it could be said that there is some knowledge that, after this matter, the fact, that there is not too expensive, that there is a desire for this government to be before the law. My question first, is for the minister – what happened so this Law could not be applied? And secondly, when we and you, as Government, learned that this Law could not be applied until July 1st, was it two days ago, three days ago, or five days ago, or was it somehow earlier, since you came to us to offer us amendments to this law only two or three days before the deadline in which these media were long ago to be privatized? In connection with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, are you talking to counterpart Sertic, did he tell you that he intends to propose such a bill? Wasn't there a way for you to determine earlier that this law is not being implemented, that local self-government, as you say, is not doing their job. And my second question is then what do you think, is whether your responsibilities, your ministry's responsibilities for not being done, whether it's the privatisation agency's fault, were the presidents of the municipalities guilty, whether the directors of the media who put the same municipalities in their municipalities and elected them to those places, because you know, as I would say, they're all SNS people. And those who run those municipalities and those who run the Privatisation Agency and those who run those media. For example, we have the City of Novi Sad, which yesterday in its session of the City Hall estimated the value of city television at 22 million, I think, and 135 thousand dinars. It's the same thing, it was done two days before the deadline. The new Sad belongs to that group of naive municipalities that have already done so once before, so according to the new law, they had to correct such a decision at the request of the additional Privatisation Agency, which once again showed that somehow in Serbia run by SNS, somehow the less smart one, the one who follows the rules, the one who does everything right, because somehow, without determining whose responsibility all deadlines are extended, that no one is responsible for the fact that they are not respected and that there is no more or less responsibility for it. The second question is, first of all, when it comes to informing citizens who are informed in the languages of national communities, the big problem is that those municipal media that broadcast the programme in several languages or will not be privatised because no one is interested in buying them or if they are privatised after that legal deadline they will be shut down and the citizens who are informed in those languages will really not be able to inform them anymore. And that's not a question of whether it's worth it. It is indeed a question of lowering the consistent level of human rights that is forbidden to us by the Constitution and it is, you, when it seems to me, a colleague of the Papuga was telling me about it, you told her that now it is a bit of a strange attitude because on the one hand we are complaining about the country's excessive influence on the media, and on the other hand we are opposed to the state's exit from the media. Well, you know, Mr. Tasovac, when the European Commission complains, let's say, about press pressures, organized hickeys being conducted in the media against the opposition, it doesn't complain that it's done by Radio Television Kovacica, which is, say, in municipal property or that it's doing, I don't know, some local television that's in municipal property, no, these things happen in private media where the state doesn't have a way of working. When the State Department complains today about the abuse of the media and complains about the journalist, complaining about censorship in a report presented today by the US Secretary of State, it does not complain about Radio Television Kovacica, he complains about some other media that are not state-owned. When Dunja Mijatovic talks about censorship, then after Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic says the OSCE is lying, she is not complaining about Radio Television Kovacica, it is not about the state influence on the media but about some other media that are not even state-owned. And the third thing that really seems to me that it took a little bit more careful to prepare the law, you say in the light of the law that this does not require additional funding and that delaying the application of the law will in no way affect the standard of living of citizens, i.e. the proposed law will not cost citizens and businesses. If it was intended to stop financing the media on July 1st by municipalities and cities, and now we continue to extend this funding by municipalities and cities and to continue, please tell me that this does not cause additional costs to citizens? As far as I know, at least in the New Sad City budget, I don't know if others respected the law like the City of Novi Sad, the funding of local media was only scheduled until July 1st of this year, given that the law read so. The new Sad will either have to rebalance the budget in order to ensure further financing of city television or will have to finance it from some budget reserves or in other ways find ways to fund local television against the law. I guess that's the case with all the other municipalities that probably, respecting the law, have set up a plan to finance local television until July 1st. If this should be extended now, in what way, please, does this not require additional funding in the budget of these local self-governments and in what way does it not cost the citizens? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30775	The People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30776	Of course, Article 107, the esteemed chairman, because this high house cannot endure untrueness and that such a rude insult is made to Parliament especially when a sentence is made that the Prime Minister told Dunji Mijatovic to lie or the OSCE to lie. He just asked a question to tell us where the censorships are, and she never answered that, so those terms can't be used to deceive the public from this high house, as Mr. Becic can't, and you were obliged to react because, you come from the AP Vojvodina space, when someone talks about who has local officials in some media, you need to warn Mr. Becic about a small-time pay phone and tell us maybe you, the provincial government, how much money has she allocated to individual media and what are the media? Thirty-four million dinars of people's money have been allocated to their media to fund them for the next campaign in the province of Vojvodina, but I am convinced they won't be able to do it either, they will lose those elections as they have lost until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30777	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, and it's too much to say to the previous speaker. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: No. No, thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30778	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Becic, I ask you to warn Mr. Djukanovic not to abuse the infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure which he uses to replicate the MPs, Mr. Djukanovic has done it again shortly before and you have not warned him. Here, warn him now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30779	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Djukanovic speaks 30 seconds, utters one sentence which is why... (Vesna Marjanovic throws out of town. ) Miss Marjanović, don't throw it away, let me give you an explanation. Maybe you don't like that explanation, you have the right to do it, but let me just say it, don't throw it away. Mr. Pavicevic, if it's according to the Rules of Procedure, I have to give you an explanation that I think it is. If you don't think so, you have the right to vote on the Parliament's plea, which I see at this point you don't want. Mr. Djukanovic's explanation says in 30 seconds, that's one sentence I can't deny to speak anymore, to speak for up to two minutes, I could estimate whether he's abusing the Rules of Procedure and interrupting it. Since he's only saying one sentence, since he speaks in 30 seconds, it's something that I don't think is enough for me to assess whether someone's abusing the Rules of Procedure or not. Thank you. The word has a minister named Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30780	I'll try to answer a few questions. So, by amending this law and changing this law, we are just continuing to implement a media strategy. If we look at what was the second option to strictly stick to that date, July 1st, which we put on and which I still think was absolutely enough to complete the full privatisation, that everyone was doing their part of the job responsibly. What's the option? To stop in one day that there are absolutely 74 local media. I'm interested in what such a reaction would be not even you as a politician but simply a human reaction, it's on one side. On the other hand, did we react before? Of course we've acted before, because I'm telling you again, it's dozens of meetings, not only in Belgrade, but it literally means from Subotica to Bujanovac, where the Ministry of Culture explained and explained everyone's responsibility in the process of getting the state out of the media ownership structure. You asked me if I felt responsible? Of course I feel responsible. Of course I feel the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Information, of course I feel the responsibility of the Serbian government, but I think it's time to start talking about the responsibility of what local self-government is. If we're talking about the state of the media, I'm sorry, please, the media owners and the editors and the editors and the journalists themselves are responsible. So we'll have a media picture better the moment everyone accepts their share of responsibility. Also, since you mentioned information in the languages of national minorities, I repeat once again that standards have not been questioned in any way. You also asked a question about amendments to the Privatisation Act. Well, do you think that we should have brought the media into an unequal position and not allowed them to be viewed by the 2014 balance and the write-off of debts, making them even more interesting to potential buyers? I'm not happy about moving this deadline, but I repeat again. So, Serbia's government's hard-line policy to continue with media reforms, and I think that's very important, that's on the one hand, but on the other hand, we have also proven ourselves socially responsible to the government, because those 2,000 families working in these media, they really don't care why the Kovačica municipality decided not to join the privatisation, although the law clearly defines it. But it seems to me that it's very important that we don't lose at this point what's kind of a bigger picture. Law enforcement is a process. After all, you mentioned here Dunjo Mijatovic and the OSCE. I will return to March of the month, the conference that we had here with Dunja Mijatovic in Belgrade, when it was among other things, I attended him, so also Prime Minister Vukic and Dunja Mijatovic, and simply, where we are slowly creating a new environment and a new media picture of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30781	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Ms. Jerkov's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There were words here about some extension deadlines. I will now explain to you the extension of the deadlines directed by the Democratic Party. Here in this folder, it is thicker, here are the requirements, and you can see in the title - Democratic Party, City Committee of Belgrade, sent to the Autotransport company "Lasta" Belgrade, the purpose - a notice on the place of parking of buses from Belgrade and Serbia that will transport passengers to the Democratic Party's final convention on 31 January 2008 in the Republic Square. Then we have many such demands, many such demands. Behind such demands, the account goes behind the services provided. There's bills in the next folder. However, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected employees in "Last", respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the extension of deadlines directed by the Democratic Party, goes the following – the demand by account number 901 of 26.12.2000, aged 12.12.2010, and aged 17th January 2011, and aged 07.04, and became obsolete 19.4, and thus, in that extension of deadlines directed by the Democratic Party, only through several transports, only through a few requests by the Democratic Party, which was done to the auto-transport company "Lasta", all citizens of the Republic of Serbia amounted to 2,079,920 dinars, and only the City Committee of the Democratic Party. What about the other municipal committees? What about the operator? What about the other limitations of the deadlines that are and how they cost the citizens, and especially the employees of these companies?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30783	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Replica, MP Borislav Stefanovic, head of the parliamentary group, based on the importance of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30784	All right, take it easy. I wanted to see you better here. First of all, these memos and the paperwork, the esteemed colleague, can't be fat. Fats can be pigs. So it can only be extensive. Secondly, from 2008 to 2010, "Lasta" functioned as it did. When you walked into it, the moment she went to hell. Thirdly, if you already have here, as you call it, fat documentation, deliver it where it needs to be delivered, to the prosecution or who's in charge. In the end, just explain to me what this has to do with the fact that you're proposing amendments to the law that you've brought yourself and you've broken all the deadlines again. So, bring me the deadlines for hiring the bus in 2008 to rally the DS with the fact that you're re-exploiting your own deadlines and re-imposing yourself with a bad law that chokes local media in Serbia and leaves people out of work. Here, just somehow bring me this connection, because you seem, no offense whatsoever, with great respect, I'm telling you this, you're not programmed, you don't have the code to say anything else that's in the presentation, because you're either talking about what's in the past or in the future. So you didn't do anything alive, you're just talking about what happened then. Tell us, why weren't you able to respect your own imposed deadline? What's gonna happen to the employees in those media outlets? What friends of the Progressive Party are going to buy them? How much money are they going to go to Studio B and the rest of the local TV? Where are these people going to work? How will the citizens of Kragujevac, Kruševac, Trstenik, etc. be informed? What about Radio-Yugoslavia? Is there one thing you didn't ruin, that you touched?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30785	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30786	I believe that the closeness of sitting near the exit door symbolizes going out, not seeing each other better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30787	Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I speak. ) Miss Jerkov, take care of it with your party colleague. Don't interrupt the speaking MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30789	Well, they look forward to that exit door. Let the kids look forward to it. In the same way, I could warn my colleague that people aren't programmed, that CNC machines are programmed, if you know what it is, that robots, computers are programmed, but people aren't programmed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30790	Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place, who am I throwing at? ) (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: He tells me. ) Mr. Stefanovic, allow me, Mr. Babic has listened to you. Let Mr. Babic finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30791	When you are so sensitive to the extension of deadlines, some colleagues were not MPs in the Eighth Assembly, but some were. Some colleagues have also been informed. Well, then what about the Insurance Act, which, respected colleagues and colleagues, DS just four times extended the deadlines, four times everything in a year? I know exactly, here's the December moon, here's the end of December, here's the deadline extension law. You've extended four times. I can understand that once the deadline has been extended, as Minister Tasovac has arrived for four months, but four years at a time for four years, well, I can't understand that. On the other hand, I did not say by any representative of the former regime – and what are the solutions? And what would you do spectacularly, keep the media on the state budget, on the municipal budget? What about those who are not, unequal market conditions, or again some left-wing ideas in Prada's shoes, and let's say, no, all on the budget, and the budget drained, cleaned up by some actions, clean up Serbia? What's the idea, not to do this, that these people are out of a job right now or in four months? What are the solutions you're proposing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30792	Time. Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, you have the right to a replica, although, you know, if I were to respect the Rules of Procedure, I could not give you the right to reply because Mrs. Marjanovic is in the O.R. as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30793	It's one rule that someone invented at the chair and that doesn't exist anywhere. Just tell me where it says it. Where does that rule say? How does the head of the parliamentary group not have the right to respond to the mention in the negative sense of the party?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30794	Mr Stefanovic, that is why you have authorized an MP who represents a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30795	No matter what, it doesn't say anything. Please give me back my time, Mr. Vienna.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30796	Mr. Stefanovic, I'll get the time back. You don't let me say what I have to say in my Rules of Procedure. I didn't say I wouldn't give you my word, I said I'd get your word, but I also said that if I respected the Rules of Procedure you couldn't get your word, because you have an authorised representative in the House of Representatives' room. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30797	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the warm expectation of you quoting that member, I continue the exposure. So, I sat here to better see your grandeur in ignorance, and you keep getting close to the chairman's seat, even having a party at the Vronjska Banja, so you failed, so maybe you'll end up sitting in that place. Otherwise, you as the owner of a hotel in Vrnjačka Banja, called "Trifun", here is another commercial, and you know very well that we have several times suggested what should be done with these media. And again, we think that local and regional public services should exist, that you shouldn't have gone into privatisation at all, that you shouldn't have done that at all, when you've already set yourself deadlines, so you're moving them now, so you're going to move them again. You know about the media just enough that it's perfectly normal for you and the government president to go on TV and say, "The subscription is lifted." There's a tax now. No, it's not a subscription anymore, and the Prime Minister didn't lie. The subscription was cancelled, but you got a tax, respected citizens, of 500 dinars, which you'll pay, and they promised you something else, but that's the only thing they promised. So the bottom line is that there are solutions that exist in other EU countries that you could apply and you didn't want to. Why didn't you want to? You have in Britain, you have in Germany, you have in France, you have in Austria. You have over 20 regional public services in Austria. It's not the citizens' pay, it's the public service, it's not the community's pay. Well, that's what we suggested... (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Who pays? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30798	Please, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30799	I don't know why they're getting me. So the proposals existed. You may not like them, you might not think they're real, and that's okay, but don't say that people don't suggest anything. They broke deadlines in 2008, 2010. That's right. It's the only thing you know how to say about this thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30800	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. I didn't mention justice, I just asked you to look at article 39. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30801	Mr. Chairman, I am changing the hotel I own, as Mr. Stefanovic claims, for his Pradine shoes. I can't wear them, I probably wear the number 45, but I'll keep them like that, maybe it'll have some left-handed museum value of how left-wing was run out of Prada's shoes. It's an offer for what's in my possession, and what's in my possession can be seen on the Anti-Corruption Agency's website, and I don't play with it, like the representatives of the former regime are playing with it, so they forget the meadow on Vrakar, and then they forget the apartments, too, on that same Wizard, and then when the Agency takes the case against them, it's the Agency's fault. What is totally deviating from some policy, although I don't know which policy is run by the former regime, whether left-wing, European or who knows any, but for a set of information laws adopted by this National Assembly last year, we got all the consent and support of the Venice Commission, and that it was done in accordance with EU values, as someone wanted to present that someone didn't understand. Is it policy not to get out of the media now? Is it her desire that when we get back to power that we'll be able to get through those same media or through that same car transport company, to which we've extended the deadlines, and thus damage them by two million and 100,000 dinars, to do the same thing again? Will we be able to do the same, as Bojan Pajtic does in the AP Vojvodina, and the state money, the citizens of Vojvodina only finance a humanitarian organisation owned by DS members? No, it's not. We want the market, we want the game, we want the same conditions, we want the same conditions for everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30802	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, in order not to be brilliant, as you say, since you do not want to read Article 39, I will have to read it for MPs. Item 4. – if the parliamentary group is the deputy president, or authorised representative, who you have authorised, Mrs Marjanovic, he assumes the powers of the president of the parliamentary group that day, at that session with those powers. So, Mr. Stefanovic, in order not to do what you say again, I had to read this article. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30803	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Minister Tasovac, we will vote, of course, against this amendment, because the adoption, gentlemen, of this bill would mean violations of the principle of rule of law which is the fundamental principle of our Constitution, defined by Article 3, and which is the fundamental assumption of our Constitution. We've prepared five amendments. In the amendment debate, we will try to further explain why the rule of law must not be violated, and this proposal obviously violates Minister Tasovac. Until the amendment debate, I suggest you think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30804	Mr. Pavicevic, you finished your presentation? Yeah. Thank you. I'm not used to you talking for less than five minutes. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30805	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. I'm not gonna ask her to advertise. I will try to be brief, as Mr. Pavicevic, but for the sake of truth, I would like my colleague Jerkov to listen to me and I am grateful to the services within the SNS parliamentary group for responding in time. Here I have a list of the laws on three sides and 80 legal solutions, where a call from 2008 to 2012, called under the leadership of the DS, has been moving deadlines in laws. Eighty laws that they've moved to apply four years from now. Eighty. In this hand is the convocation, the tenth convocation, 2014, 2015, Mr. Tasovac, along with your law, this law, nine. You look at who's being tangled by a rock shift and who's having such an argument knocked over his head right now. To someone who changed deadlines 80 times, in 80 laws he moved the validity of deadlines, or on us. I'd be happy if this list was empty, it wasn't, nine laws along with today, unlike you gentlemen, whose crucial argument you've been doing it 80 times. Therefore, it is better that, before entering the debate and using certain arguments, you are well informed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30806	I thank you, Mr. Granny. As you said, I couldn't as chairman have that information and couldn't warn Miss Jerkov. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Miss Jerkov, you have no right to a replica. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) On injury, yes. If Mr. Babic hadn't spoken about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you would have the right to reply because your name and last name were mentioned, but since it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have no right, unless you wish to report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, as you are. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30807	Thank you. I don't think there's any need to explain to you, Mr. Becic, you just violated Article 103. Rules of Procedure. You don't know which way the SNS have allowed to replicate when they report to God that they're talking about you hurting the Rules of Procedure. They're doing it now here's Mr. Babic now remembered what to respond to my exposure 45 minutes ago, if that's what we're going to do, then I can think of something tomorrow and say, "I'm reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm answering someone who spoke four days ago." If that's how we're going to do it, please say it, then we'll get ready to do it. In English, there is one proverb that is translated about to go that two bad ones do not make one good. So if Mr. Babic will mostly give justice the inability of the SNS by doing something bad once, which is why she lost in the elections, let it be, but don't let him do it at a time that he uses to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because we'll all start working like that. It is clear to you that Mr. Babic has just replicated me to my presentation 40 minutes ago, falsely presenting himself as a advertiser of the Rules of Procedure. I invite you to take advantage of your obligation to punish him as your Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30808	Miss Jerkov, I'd have to punish you first because you've just replicated. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Okay, maybe, but once it is Babic. Much more than Mr. Babic. Mr. Babic reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, warned me of statistical data. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: The DS passed laws. Miss Jerkov, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure again, because you can't talk to me like this. Let me give you an explanation that I am obliged to give for the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: I do not want to listen. ) Mr. Babic... Please, Miss Jerkov, allow me to give an explanation, which I am obliged to give. You may be nervous, you can tell by your exposure and gesture. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: No need. I am obliged by the Rules of Procedure to give an explanation, as much as you wish or not, and to ask if you would like to make a statement to the Assembly. Ms. Jerkov, Mr. Babic is the time it took to get the statistical data he has provided here, it was just the chairman who announced for further discussion, that I do not allow or allow it to be used, when there is such information that exists. He had the right to do it, he only talked about it, and he spoke to me. In your statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, you have replicated Mr. Babic, so I can say that you have violated the Rules of Procedure more than Mr. Babic has violated. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Now you have broken the Rules of Procedure again. ) You may not be satisfied with my explanation and ask the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day, not to call again for an injury, which I could not do in the meantime, if you do not like what I said in my explanation that I have the right to do according to the Rules of Procedure. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: I want the Assembly to plead and I believe you have broken the Rules of Procedure again. ) The word has a folk letter by Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30809	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, in order to take the debate a little seriously and discuss the fact that the bill today practically brings a mechanism and solution to reform the media privatisation process in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30810	Ms. Jerkov, allow Mrs. Tomic to complete the exposure. Don't throw it away. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Whom I throw to. Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away. Thank you, Miss Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30811	We can't help but look back. Because by analyzing the past, we can only do so in a good way to create a future. Anyone who minds an analysis of the past shows one great irresponsibility, whether it's in opposition or position. So, we need to talk about the past, we need to talk politically that the previous government had another concept of editing media space. Aprioriori advocated European directives, but never implemented them, so she found a way to create a "direct media", one house that will be a fundamental adviser to all state, private media, which will finance through certain projects. In this way, it will exert a political influence by the DS and thus introduce a media dark. Now that you are in a situation where you have to introduce European directives and simply introduce a new set of media laws that this government, in co-operation with the EU, has brought, and this parliament has voted on, you are in a situation that you really need to secure competition and a competition, the basis that everyone in the private sector and media ownership has the same chance of choosing the capital market. This is difficult, not only in the reform of media laws, but also in the media and the means of public information. It's hard at all, this competition for all kinds of action and for all areas. But in the media, the specificity is higher because our people's habits are even older when we talk about relationships with media and journalists. These habits speak of how much easier it is to always have media that are funded by the budget and that decisions made are always called for by those who exercise power, which is what the current set of laws actually needs, to change our awareness of what the essential ownership structure of the media should look like, that is, how private owners should behave, especially when they own written and printed media. What I wanted to talk about in terms of the law is exactly the Law on Privatisation, which was the subject of the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Tourism and Energy and the Privatisation Agency once every three months and submits a report on the work and what we had the opportunity to hear from the Director of the Agency, which is that there are indeed great problems regarding the general privatisation process. It is precisely because the Government finds it extremely responsible to carry out the whole process more responsibly. More responsible in the sense that simple procedures are to be implemented within certain legally prescribed time limits. Thus, this deadline could not essentially be implemented precisely because of this habit of our peoples, especially those in the media that did not first complete the capital assessment reports. That's what wasn't delivered to the Privatisation Agency within the time limit. All the media knew they had to do it, but they didn't. We're always waiting for that deadline somewhere. That's not just the case with television, that's the case with all the economic operators, the social enterprises that are in the privatisation process. When I was speaking, I had certain questions and by local television in Serbia when I traveled over the past month, were they always interested in whether the government and whether the ministry would implement the law? I said – The government, the ministry and the Agency will find mechanisms to indicate that they will implement it within the legal deadline. The moment they saw that these 74 media houses had not implemented what was their obligation, it was certainly the only way to extend that deadline through this legal solution, to give one additional opportunity to complete the process. Finally, in this extension 2000 people will find the possibility and make if there are plans to find ways and strategic partnerships to facilitate the privatisation agency and the ministry to find strategic partners with whom they will find a way to function further in certain competitions. What we had the opportunity to hear in the debate, it is, by opposition parties, that they simply think that the law should essentially begin to function by July 1st. If it started to work, practically more than half of these 74 media outlets would be shut down. Now I ask one logical question – did such proposals remain on this European path? Do they really advocate European integration in full capacity? Is there this acceptability of society for such laws at all? I'm sorry, but the government and the Ministry of Privatisation, including the Ministry of Culture, and the Ministry of Business have shown in a very responsible way that they are really taking care of every segment of media space. And that's what you need to say. But there is something more to be said to the citizens of Serbia and when it comes to a taxi which is not, of course, a proposal for this law, but it should be said that the boards of directors are the ones who make those decisions. As the RTS Management Board has made a decision on the compensation, i.e. the taxi that citizens need to pay, it should be said that the RTV Vojvodina Management Board has also made the decision. And why is that? Because it sees that it simply works in an extremely financially sustainable way and the only way that television can function, especially now by the budget, means so-called. In Serbia's budget, it means they are paid as public services, which is also RTV Vojvodina and RTS, the only way to introduce a certain type of fee, i.e. a tax. At the end of what you have said, Mr. Minister, is that it should be repeated more than once, as reforms have come to all sectors, and reforms have also come into the media area, and we simply as citizens have to accept these reforms. The hardest thing is to accept everyone from your point of view. The hardest thing to do is go into a media area where journalists who have been used to a kind of functioning for years, especially if they own a state in a slightly more comfortable position than those who need to fight on the market. The fight against the market and financing by the state is completely unequal. If they all put themselves in the same plane, in a level of equality where they should fight for that market, then the game will be much better, much stronger and will bring more quality programs because only by the quality of the programme essentially then media owners will be able to show really how much they can function on the capital market. In the end, what I wanted to point out is that somewhere we have forgotten this agreement between Serbia and the People's Republic of China, and in part, the promoter is formally you as the Ministry of Culture. It is that the People's Republic of China's initiative since 2013 is to form common cultural centres in Serbia and simply through this agreement it is shown that the definitions of initiatives of all countries, whether they come from the West, the East, the North and the South to show that through one cultural co-operation we are, in fact, respected as a state in this diplomatic sense and that the policy that the government is running is truly praised from all sides. Somewhere culture is always the forgotten sector in which the most difficult sector now works especially when it comes to economic reforms and financial consolidation and I know that you have great pressures, even people in the area because of funding. But I think that through these cultural centres that come from the initiative of many countries, we need to find a way to really help our culture sector through certain funding projects, so that I wouldn't single out anyone so that they don't get angry, because somewhere that sector is neglected, but it's somewhere in which a state such as education is located, as is health care, because it's in a certain way non-productive activity, but that shows essentially in which state we are in but also what contacts and how much cooperation we simply receive from other countries. For this reason, I think it is very important that we still talk about this agreement today so that we do not just turn to the fact that the delay of the deadline until 31 October 2015 is the goal of these laws. It is simply the goal of privatization being carried out in an extremely economically but socially responsible way, for the public information and media sector to be a sector that will indeed show in the future that European standards function in Serbia. It takes the acceptance of society, and that is why it is very necessary for us to talk more about it in every place and not to succumb to certain trivialities, as we had during the session to discuss the injuries of the Rules of Procedure which do not speak about this subject in one extremely responsible and correct way. It is a minor shame to extend the deadline by six months, but to implement the law and some measures overnight and to do great damage to this area, rather than to bring greater benefit to the fact that in the ultimately responsible way we approach the completion and completion of the privatisation process that we are talking about today. Therefore, in the day of voting, this bill should not only be accepted by the SNS, but also by those parties that simply belong to the opposition parties because they show that they are indeed for this European path and acceptability of society and that we do not need to share in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30812	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The next speaker is Mr Ivan Karic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30813	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I'm not going to talk much about deadlines, nor do I think this is some kind of worst proposal, nor was there any best suggestions before. I want to talk about other things. It is not clear to me in the course of the debate that the enthusiasm of neoliberal capitalism, which has virtually happened throughout the world today, and through this law, it seems to me that we now want to abolish local and regional public services, and then, under the cloak of some kind of competition, we put money in the pockets of private television to do what we want and what we want. I listened carefully to my predecessors and with most colleagues in the position I agree. For example, I have never been to Study B, although I am a city councilman, even though I know that "Study B" requires a ban on me to appear and it is unclear for me, given that it is also true for my colleagues from the government and then it means that they should remain local media and that, according to the director's own discretion, they will be forbidden or allowed to appear, not because they represent some citizens. Of course, people in Belgrade do not understand the need for local information because local information involves not only a story of politics, but a story of local cultural events, local infrastructure works and local environmental events. "Studio B" and local TV in Obrenovac almost did not publish anything about the ecological disaster in Obrenovac two years ago until it appeared on national television and therefore it is not clear to us that the insistence on the concept of neoliberal capitalism, which died where it was made, and therefore Greens have prepared, if you need it, a bill that will allow the establishment of public services of municipalities, cities and regions. Any local self-government, supported by citizens, can assess whether or not it needs a local medium, and the need does not in any way stifle freedom of public information. On the contrary, Green Serbia is convinced that the lack of local and regional public services is certainly reducing non-commercial reporting. The widest satisfaction and need of citizens without discrimination for information and content from all areas of social life, especially in the fields of education, environment and culture, is not possible without independent local public services. If there are national and regional public services that have the purpose of public information, we do not see why this would not exist in local environments where local self-government or citizens express the need to have it. In EU countries there are both regional and local media, so it remains unclear why the state of Serbia insists that local self-government be abolished by an absolute right to choose whether or not they want to have their own media, especially because it insists on decentralisation and increasing the jurisdiction of local self-government. I cited the example of Studio B, my colleagues from the position were instructed by some other local television, I am, for example, an MP from Obrenovac who mentioned Obrenovac several times in three years...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30814	Mr. Karic, you're out of time. Finish your sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30815	I have mentioned Obrenovac more times than all MPs from Obrenovac in the last 25 years in parliament, and has never appeared on local television. So much for freedom of information on the one hand, and I still advocate that local media must exist and that citizens will finally take matters into their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30816	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30817	To be clear, I find that the availability of information is extremely important. You said you weren't going to talk about deadlines, but I'm going to mention one deadline now, and it was a deadline to complete digitisation and it was completed within the deadline. The brand-new platforms will significantly facilitate exactly, so also for local environments the flow of information. So I just think that we're living in a time where technology dramatically changes our reality, and we've simply caught up with a simple step in this matter with a new time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30818	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP IvanKaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30819	I thank you, thank you and just now for the extra time, Mr. Chairman. Just for a little while. Then we don't need any private local television, let's say, whose local self-government will pay for what they report on local issues. I agree that digitisation is a good thing, but believe me, the citizens of Obrenovac, Lazarevac, Smederevski Palanka do not care if the crowd is on Brank's bridge, but they want to know what they're doing tonight at their local theatre to give, what's the local infrastructure theme that's done. Not everyone has the internet, not everyone has the opportunity to get information, and I still think that it should remain an opportunity to start, in some units of local self-government or, in some ways, public services, which by reputation of RTS can be local, regional. We have such cases in EU countries and therefore I think it is important. I'm not contesting an extension of the importance of this law, maybe the deadline should have been extended a little bit more to get there. Somehow we always give ourselves short deadlines and then extend the deadlines. So is the environment, unfortunately, in many areas. Very often my discussions have no desire to discredit some legal proposal, but to improve it. In the amendment debate, we'll try to discuss some things further. But you also agree that "green policy" is not a neoliberal policy, it is not a right-wing policy, it is not a left-wing policy, and that you allow Greens to have a special view of information flow and information availability topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30820	Thank you, Mr. Karicu. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30821	Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Law on Public Information and Media was adopted last year, 2 August 2014, which elaborated in a very precise way the state's exit process of media ownership in Serbia and the necessary treatment and realization of the privatisation process. The fundamental change and addition of the Public Information Act and the media is the shift of the deadline by four months. The Act amending and supplementing the Information and Media Act changes the deadline until which the capital of the issuers and media must be sold from 1 July 2015 to 31 October 2015. The change in the time limit for privatising the media is necessary because the Privatisation Act has changed. The National Assembly adopted amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act, reminders for the purpose of 28 May of this year, in such a way that all privatisation entities are required to carry out a list and assess the fair market value of the entire assets, liabilities and capital with a condition on 31 December of the financial year, i.e. In 2014, and give that documentation to the Privatisation Agency. Given that all the media that started the privatisation process have submitted an assessment of the fair market value of total assets, liabilities and capital with a state on 31 December 2013, as the last business year at the time of submission of the dossier and that the deadline for submission of the new documentation is 30 days from the date of delivery of the request to the Agency, it is necessary to adapt the deadlines provided for by the Public Information Act and the media in accordance with the new legal obligations. The question being raised is what were stakeholders doing in the previous period, what were local self-government doing? Following the entry into force of media laws last year, in August, local self-government and media with state capital at all levels of government, from the Republic, the city to the local environment, were obliged to initiate decision-making and application procedures, to successfully implement the privatisation process. What did the Ministry of Culture and Information and Resorna Privatisation Agency do? The Ministry of Culture and Information and the Privatisation Agency have repeatedly reminded the media and founders of fulfilling the obligations under their jurisdiction. The Ministry of Culture and Information was available for all clarifications, all dilemmas related to the application of media laws in this sphere. The representatives of the Ministry of Culture, we learn from the media, have had opportunities to visit cities and municipalities throughout Serbia, Nis, Belgrade, Bujanovac, Subotica, Kragujeva, Novi Pazar, Zlatibor, and in an open dialogue talk with representatives of local self-government and the media how to make this process as efficient and sound as possible. The director of the Privatisation Agency, Mr. Shubara, sent a letter to all local self-governments that they had to initiate the privatisation process by 1 April of this year, after which many of the media owned by the state had come to the conclusion of the momentum process. The reminders are working, Studio B announced yesterday that a privatisation process was launched, they announced the sale of Studio B. The Privatisation Agency published a public call for privatisation of TV Studio B at the starting price of 528,626 euros, the estimated value of capital. Privatisation is carried out through a public tendering method. By amending the Privatisation Act, which entered into force on 28 May, the state extended the additional possibility for unprivatised media to increase attractiveness through new balance sheets, ending in 2014, by cutting off the debts these media have made in the previous year. The next question to be asked – what were the media doing? The media in Serbia would be divided into four groups. The first group includes the media who in time understood what their task was. As I have already said, an example of the media that took its task seriously was the RTV Studio B and the City of Belgrade as the founder of this media, together with Mayor Sinish Mali and his team, in time and within the deadlines it respected the procedure and delivered all necessary materials. The second group included those media who apparently had an interest in prolonging this process after July 1st, in order to get free of charge to the employees who have the right to do so. In the third group of media, those who seem to have obstructed the whole process from the very beginning. It's mostly media that have a problem right now and it's a big question whether they're even going to qualify for free division of action, and I'm asking you Ministers to answer me if they have enough time to realize this? The fourth group includes those media with negative capital and which, unfortunately, will not be entities in the privatisation process. The scheduled changes and deadlines continue to position July 1st as a significant date, because it is a date qualified by the media for privatisation, whether by the process of the submitted material, whether through free share of action, whether through the shutting down of the media. I remind all dear colleagues, October 31st is the deadline for this whole process to end. Budget payments will cease if a sale contract with a new buyer is concluded before that deadline, meaning that the sum of around 107 million dinars mentioned at the republican level may be significantly reduced if, for example, Tanjug privatises before flight, making it possible to achieve significant savings. Privatisation of the media and digitisation of the TV signal will certainly contribute to the consolidation of the media scene in Serbia. The reminders, before the media register was introduced, were almost 1,447 public, 110 TV and 325 radio stations. By amending and supplementing the Media Information Law that another chance for the media to successfully end the privatisation process in their favour, as well as for the benefit of current workers, as well as for the benefit of the Serbian citizens themselves who have the right to timely, true and objective information. With the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the RES, we have further strengthened and paid attention to social programmes for state-owned journalists and media. Finally, I would like to read to you a statement from the Association of Journalists of Serbia from 25 June 2015, which says that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs approved the social programme between 18 March and 20 June for a total of 281 journalists and media workers from 30 media who are in the privatisation process. On the basis of the requests made by the media, solutions were made for the approval of funds for daily traffic d.o.o. Novi Sad, Dnevnik Šmparija d.o.o., Dnevnik Novi Sad, Novi Sad, Public enterprise RTV Kragujevac, Public enterprise Radio Leskovac, Public enterprise TV Trstenik, Radio-Television Indjija, Public enterprise Television Kruševac, a.d. Dnevnik Novi Sad, Public enterprise Radio Požarevac, Public enterprise Television Smederevo, Public firm Radio-Television Vranje and finally the Public enterprise Novi Pazar. I would like all dear colleagues at the very end to call on us to support amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information of the Media in order to properly complete the process of getting the state out of the ownership structure of the media in Serbia, which is the strategic course of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30822	Thank you, Mrs. Stojkovic. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30823	A concrete answer to your question will be given by the Privatisation Agency, because it has complete documentation and it determines actually when the conditions for free division of action have been obtained.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30824	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. He's not in the O.R. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30825	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, honourable ministers, respected guests and respected citizens, deadlines have been broken and amendments to the Media and Public Information Act have been adopted. What was the case when we passed a new law and when you proposed a new law in this home, we were not for it at the time, not because he had some huge shortcomings, but for the simple reason that we knew, and I think, ministers, that you, too, knew that such a law, although it has its positive side, could not be applied in these conditions to media censorship in Serbia. Since the deadline for privatisation has been broken, and I particularly intend to talk about those media dealing with local self-government in Serbia, which was also not the subject of your interest again, because I sincerely hope that the result would be completely different, today you are proposing something that is not even important whether we as an opposition agree or not. It is, of course, a mistake made by the Privatisation Agency, a misjudgement, and now you are sent here to the Assembly to correct those mistakes. That deadline we can and we don't have to support, it's less important. The important thing is that some media, those of crucial importance for certain parts of Serbia, will be shut down again. They won't be able to withstand competition on the market. They will also, when it comes to minorities being completely marginalised and will be shut down like many local television stations, as has been the case in the last few years. We are particularly interested in one of the topics, and it concerns Study B, as it is one big brand and a big name when it comes to Belgrade. It has been the city's regional service of municipal, of course, political, cultural, traffic and all other news for citizens of Belgrade since its founding. Citizens have spent decades investing and keeping track, and together with Study B, they have been a symbol of Belgrade. They, of course, have the right to be familiar, and for example, they are completely excluded from the decision-making process when it comes to the public service of the city. When it comes to details of the procedure, they are not familiar with them. All we know is that because of the law he restricted for July 1, 2015, all local self-government in Serbia, and thus the City of Belgrade, has defined the funds by July 1st 2015 to serve the needs of local television. Since the deadline is now moving, the question is whether there are additional funds in the budget that have not been defined for local services and in what way, whether by rebalance or from some other reserves, local self-government will finance what was, of course, a mistake for the privatisation agency itself. The funds will not be where they are not interested in the ruling structures, so the opposition local media in opposition municipalities will be shut down, and those others, of course, privatised by some who are close to ruling structures. We can't stand still and we can't keep quiet in front of the fact that only two companies are interested, for example. For the purchase of such a big brand as Studio B. Is it possible that you as a minister remain silent in front of the fact that one company that is interested used to sell boats and chandeliers and the other that is in a blockade? This casts a shadow over the whole privatisation process, for the simple reason that citizens do not trust companies that have never done this job before, that in a fair and objective way they will take care of the media image of the capital. When it comes to write-offs, it is also very important and how and how these debts will be written off and whether they will be taken over by the City of Belgrade budget, so they will be paid in a special way by the citizens, or by the one who buys that public service will actually have additional costs when it comes to privatisation. The initial price is just over half a million euros, i.e. 528 thousand euros, i.e. 63 million dinars. This is the value of 100% of the estimated value of the capital, but it is not known how and how that value was evaluated. It's the last figure the public in Serbia is dealing with. Why, for example. Belgrade as the capital is not allowed to have its own public service? That's what we saw on the Vojvodina case, and it works somehow. It is the same number of inhabitants and somehow the same need for citizens living in the northern province and when it comes to the capital, which is, of course, allowed by the Capital Act. Studio B will function in the future by giving money, as you know, through projects and thus informing the public about the capital, but do you think that the government in Belgrade or in any other local self-government will take care of objectivity or will give money only to those projects that concern the interests of the ruling parties in these municipalities and cities? The objectivity, of course, has been questioned. She's kind of inconclusive in these circumstances where we've been living in the last three and here's the fourth year. In the end, what criteria were used when assessing Study B's capital? This is also a question for you personally, because I believe Studio B was a television that personally helped you in the ten-year term, when you were the director of the Belgrade Philharmonic, not only to promote, guard and raise the Belgrade Philharmonic, but also to preserve the culture of the capital and Serbia. I think the new administration on that television has been very helpful in questioning Studio B's reputation and bringing it down to the lowest branches since its establishment. This once truly famous television, in which only brand and name remain, we think 63 million dinars are something that does not represent the true value of all of it. I also have data here when it comes to both land and plots owned by Studio B. We also know that 16028 square meters of land along the newly built Zemun-Borch Bridge is also something Studio B has. Is this included in the valuation of the value of capital and property? When it comes to a construction facility, a building for the accommodation of aggregates, a building for the accommodation of emission facilities, it's also something someone will have tomorrow as owner of Studio B. Will he then be sold again, and even according to the claims of some SNS people? Will it only be sold because someone will take that piece of media scene in Serbia, and then build certain shopping malls on this land? Will the city then, through the financing of these projects, actually make a campaign for a party that is ruling in this local self-government, in this case, the City of Belgrade? We are not sure that an objective scene is possible, when it comes to informing in the capital, and we think it is very important that Belgrade, as the capital, has a public service, such as the public service of Vojvodina, although this period of July 1st has been breached and it is to a certain extent not only of Studio B, but also of all other similar cases throughout the country. We don't think there's enough good coordination and we haven't seen your personal interest in saving such big brands that you yourself know how much they mean to the capital. We think that the money that will be invested will not be invested in the technique, will not be invested in what the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia need. I think it will be invested exclusively for marketing and the minutes that will be sold tomorrow when some campaign comes in order, who knows which order and who knows which emergency election is in order. But I think we all had a much higher expectation of the moment you took over this resort in 2013, thinking that you were really the only positive spot and light in the dark that ate Serbia. Somehow, you not only represented our hope that some things would be better, but obviously, your hands are tied when it comes to the media in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30826	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30827	Obviously, in the end, you've become, I end up with, the failed hope of this part of Serbia, which I'm sure you still understand, but obviously there's nothing you can do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30828	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30829	Let me answer those questions that are from the domain of the Ministry of Culture and Information, whose head I am. You know very well that, as far as assessing the value of capital and the whole process is concerned, that this process is run by independent appraisers, that he is in the domain of the Privatisation Agency and, besides, let's wait for this process to come to an end, and then we'll be able to see how it is done. However, there is a part that directly concerns the ministry's jurisdiction, which is a suspicion that you have expressed about project co-financing, that is, how money will be shared. I will draw your attention that the Law predicted that most of these commissions are precisely representatives of media associations, meaning both NUNNS and UNS and AEM, media coalitions, they seem to be, therefore, the profession makes up most of these commissions. It's just, how can I tell you, if you question the profession, I really can't help you, but there's no more transparent way to simply respect what's public interest. One more thing, too, is perfectly legitimate, I totally understand that, but now I've heard for the first time that Studio B is also applying to become a public service, so regional public service. The law has clearly defined. Serbia has two public services. One's RTS, the other's tv.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30830	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30831	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, this is all very interesting now. Someone's afraid that someone's going to set up certain executives from a particular party, whether or not the directors are going to do the privatisation. You should probably be scared, I was just mentioning a case in the AP Vojvodina where you have cuts from the province budget, so that's the national money, the money of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, where the Provincial Government exactly singles out, I think that somewhere around 34 million dinars have been allocated to exactly certain media that will serve in the campaign for the province elections and around 20 million dinars have been allocated to certain NGOs, typical of which NGOs will get that money to, of course, help Mr. Pajtic's rural campaign. Why am I saying all this? Since someone here now, I see, is crying over Studio B. I'm really sorry and it's funny that you're calling on Studio B because it was your party television, where no SNS representative during your term could ever visit, but in letters and numbers, not once, zero. Zero times we could have visited when you were there to rule. This TV, whose price today is what it is, but why is it such a price? Well, because you made a three million-euro debt for that TV. Why don't you tell the citizens how you ruined Studio B, led him to a financial collapse? Of course, you know, someone who wants to buy it today isn't crazy to take that kind of debt on his back. You've hired every part of your party staff on that TV. And you're telling us something today and you're making a point to us as to whether the citizens, I don't know, are going to lose Studio B. They stayed while you were in power, because we had clean party television. So that kind of party television wasn't seen in those Stalin TV programs either.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30832	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30833	Really, I had to react here because this doesn't make any sense anymore. Unfortunately, Studio B got into this situation today so he had to privatize because, unfortunately, you ruined it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30834	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Replica, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30835	Thank you, Mr. Becic. So, Minister Tasovac, this is exactly what I'm talking about. My predecessor brought out some vision of these things, just so it wouldn't happen, just so Studio B doesn't turn into a new Copernicus, where someone's gonna sit behind a pacified tablecloth and brainwash those who want to hear some information from some service. I think it's about preserving the city's cultural heritage. Studio B has played a big part in this for the last decade. It's very important that you be at least interested, as Minister. I know you're not directly involved in all this. That's completely clear to me. I met you somewhere when I was something less than a year old, so you represented me as some man who fights in spite of everything and, in that sense, I think it takes a little bit to get that spirit of yours back in that chair that you're sitting in today. I think it's an important thing for the Belgrade citizens who are interested in this thing and I think that, as a minister, no matter where the profession is asked, for the last three years you know best how many professions are asked in Serbia, you watch that play from the front row. Let's just do what's not up to you, save Studio B together, so it doesn't fall into someone's hands who sells chandeliers and boats. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30836	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30837	I want to thank you for reminding me of this campaign, "In spite of everything." That's exactly how I feel right now. In spite of everything, media reforms in Serbia will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30838	Thank you, Mr. Tasovac. Replica, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30839	You know, dear colleague, that television you mentioned, where it's supposed to be brainwashing, is private television. The owner of that television can have a program that he thinks is the best and where your even party staffs are hosting. This television, I'm talking about Studio B, is a television that was the service of the citizens of Belgrade, which we paid, as citizens of Belgrade, and you turned it into party television. Her program was the real brainwashing of citizens of Belgrade, and in such a way was the programme, approximately, whether Mr. Bozovic had breakfast in the morning, whether Mr. Gilas, for example, had lunch this afternoon, etc. and served exclusively for media monitoring DS, and we paid for it out of our pocket. Now, that's the problem. You have ruined this very cult content of Study B, your programming scheme and your way of informing you. What's most important, and research shows, today Studio B is far more visible than in your period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30840	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30841	If I may, Mr. Vice President Becic, if I may. Dear Mr. Vice President Becic, Honorable Minister Tasovac with his associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I am still, just to introduce myself, playing football. I'm playing till the end, and I don't see my political opponents, I see four of them. Mr. Ministers and this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Information and Media has its own foothold, as you know, but also citizens of Serbia and my political opponents, in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, whom he has submitted to us, the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in this high house, to the satisfaction of the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and of us, the largest number of MPs in this high house. In an exposé, which I carry every day here, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, has dedicated three sides to culture and reconstruction of the National Museum, from 38th to 41st, and I call on political opponents to say whether this is true or not? That's almost half of the total individual ex-government exposure, the former regime, I have one here, there's 10 pages, I'm reading, there's nothing taxing. And I leave it to historians, my colleagues, to make sure this is true or not. On page 38 of the exposé, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, said in addition, quote, "I would like you to check that the adoption of a set of media laws aimed at pulling the state out of the media and focusing on project co-financing of media content that promotes public interest. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Dear gentlemen, my political opponents, my colleagues, is this true or not in the exposé? If I may continue, gentlemen MPs. The set of laws has been passed, Mr. Vice President, as you know, and here is this bill on amendments and additions to the Law, which will implement the assigned task from the exposé. If I don't have any political opponents, thank you three for staying, four, these first fighters left in the afternoon because the game is played until the end and when we play football as MPs, please don't leave me. The honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do so by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, according to the system -- written -- achieved. Check it out. Dear People's MPs, not to forget, the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, is the most comprehensive, largest, most precise, most concrete, most transparent of all 72 previous exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia since the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister Prote Mateja Nenadovic to date. Or, if you will, professors from the university, or in the modern history of Serbia. Mr. Vice-President Bečić, Mr. Minister with associates and you, of course, and your Ministry of Culture, which you are leading and citizens of Belgrade, can still be satisfied, which, on the side of 38 exposés, says: “The opening of the reconstructed National Museum. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Check that in the exposé. Dear Belgraders, respected citizens of Serbia, and as you can see in the square, the clock is ticking, at the National Museum, and will be exactly as promised. I'd like the representatives of the political parties back, the presidents, to deny this, whether it's true or not. Let me remind you, during the former regime, the situation in culture was extremely alarming. The former regime has closed one of the largest cultural institutions, not only in Belgrade and Serbia, but also beyond, such as the National Museum. And, not only him, believe it or not, to remind you, but also the National Library of Serbia, instead of opening it, and we scientists have been chasing it for four years in front of those institutions. Is it true, gentlemen of the Ministry, confirm this. How will the former regime's gentlemen explain the fact that during your government, the National Library of Serbia has been renovated for four years, and what has been done is about culture, if you didn't know it, it could have been done in just six months. What's the worst? She didn't work for users, our scientists, for four years. This information is extremely tragic and will never be forgiven by scientific workers. Dear Mr. Vice President Becic, the Honorable Minister of Tasovac, and the skeletons from the National Museum will soon come off, and they will not stand as during the former regime. The clock is ticking, dear Belgraders. Here's one piece of information, since my political opponents are gone, from a printed paper of 1 March 2012, I quote the European institutions report to show who has an impact on the media: "The Anti-Corruption Council has collected data on the basis of which it can be concluded that there is strong political pressure on the media in Serbia and that complete control has been established over them. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Done quote, 1 March 2012. Respected political opponents, who was in power then? Was it political pressure then or wasn't it? Whose assessment is to allow you to make a good assessment of the representatives of the European Community. Your former minister, and is now under investigation, has allocated 500,000 euros to the daily list. State Audit Committee's report. Guess who, the citizens know very well. Gentlemen journalists, no Prime Minister in Serbia's history has been publicly attacked as Mr. Alexander Vukic, and legally came to power. Never in Serbia's history, not a single ruler, from Machineimir to this day has come to power, and won as President Tomislav Nikolic. I'm asking you, gentlemen of the press, what was the role of some journalists in this dirty business? A number of media are still doing such dirty work today, but to understand Serbia is a democratic country where criticism of authorities is not only possible, but even desirable. But there is a very big difference between the criticism of the authorities and the media attacks. Is it true, gentlemen, that the press is what I said? Media criticism is based on truth and facts, which is why it is socially useful for Serbian society and the Serbian state. However, certain persons employed, if I may continue, gentlemen from the MP's party, but certain persons employed in certain tabloids and some on-call expert and scientific charlatans who call themselves experts, total lies about the Prime Minister, certain ministers, the subject is, I am talking about the media and the president of the state, the president of the parliamentary group, Mr Babic, the respected president of the Serbian Parliament and the vice president. These lies are very dangerous and they want to harm the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is where some politicians, tycoons, even foreigners who do not respond to stable Serbia got involved. They want to humiliate our country's reputation and harm it in the world. I, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, invite you all to unity. When the country's most difficult, we must make our contribution. Serbia's reputation in the world has increased more during the term of the government's mandate, led by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic and the president of the state, Tomislav Nikolic, more than in the previous 20 years. Is it true, gentlemen, political opponents? And you opposition gentlemen know very well, and you admit it to me when we speak directly, and you so-called. Some journalists, human gromads and journalists, you kept quiet when one representative of the former regime and his son were reselling Serbia. Why didn't you talk then? Why didn't you talk about the mob exploits of a stray orthopedist as building minister? Until today, you haven't fenced yourself from it. You charged millions of euros for that silence. Ladies and gentlemen, you're doing the same thing today. Serbian citizens know well and will never forget you. Because you brought them to the beggar stick. We could talk a lot about privatisation. I'd like to call my political opponents. This, Mr. Tasovac, was to be completed in 2000. What were political opponents doing? Have them take a look at the neighboring countries. Have them take a look at the neighboring countries. You know why they're against privatisation? Because they were drawing funds into their pockets and individuals. No one can stop Serbia in reform anymore. No one, because the citizens have defined themselves, ends Mr. Vice President, has been defined.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30842	You must return to the topic, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30843	Here, I'm talking about media, privatization in the media. And allow me at the end, I invite you gentlemen from the opposition, unfortunately, the first fighters are gone, but at least the three of you, the four of you, to vote for this bill too, because at least a little bit in this high house, let's say, those inactivitys you've been doing for the past ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30844	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30845	In that name, we call on you to co-operate with the joint forces to support reforms, because citizens, most of them, not to say 80% stands for reforms and no one can stop them. Dear Vice President Becic, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, but I must say, I have waited patiently all day. A former Prime Minister spoke about the media today. I can't believe he was talking about the media. In April 2015, he called the SNS MPs, just to say this final word – you know that we are less smart in the Assembly, and those who are at home are more smart. That's what the former prime minister here said. He called the Serbian government a firing machine in this assembly. I'm recording it very carefully. He called the government of Serbia a cowboy. He called SNS MPs primates.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30846	Please, Mr. Atlagic, you have to talk about the subject. You need to finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30847	Here, I'll finish my sentence if you'll allow me. I won't say what he called you, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, heard, and let him serve him honor and I can't, I'm shocked, that the former prime minister says so, and anyone in this National Assembly, and especially since yesterday, that we are bastards here in this assembly. That's probably how he was raised at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30848	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Mrs. Marjanovic, on what grounds? (Vesna Marjanović, from town: Replica. I have the right to do that as an authorised representative. ) I will give you my word, Mrs. Marjanović, although you must admit that you have no right to a replica, because it is not mentioned, and you, as an authorised representative, represent a parliamentary group and answer and you have the right to reply, if the DS, president of the DS, let Mr. Markovic, allow me, if I may say something. So you have the right to reply if DS is mentioned, if the party president is mentioned, Mr Pajtic and if he is in a negative context, if DS MPs are mentioned. It wasn't all in Mr. Atlagic's speech, but I'll give you my word. Here, you have two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30849	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, we did, because the previous speaker talked about how we should wash clean and how we acted in the past, as a party. So, I am the first fighter and I've been a member of that party since 1990, so it's mentioned, so in that sense I think I had the right to a replica. I'd just like to say, and that's what we've been talking about, the past, we can talk about the past, and Mr. Secretary has asked if I'm asking the ministers of 2007, we can ask them questions, but then I'd ask the Minister of Information, from 1998, the creator of the Information Law, at a time when newspapers are banned and punished by dragon penalties. So, if we're talking about the past, let's talk about the past, maybe that's when we lost some time in reforms and on our way to European integration? Our MP club and our party, at least they never gave up. The fact that you've been taking over lately and it's all praise and we absolutely are for reform, but please don't talk about history, because history is very, very complicated. I thank you for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30850	I thank Mrs Marjanovic, although you must understand that the DS must still be mentioned, because from DS we have several parties now in the parliamentary benches and when it is said that you have done something, I cannot know what part of the Democratic Party is meant, so the name of the party must be mentioned. Thank you. Replica, authorised SNS representative Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30851	I agree, we can always talk about history, i.e. about the past, but I really prefer to talk about the future, but speaking of the media, I think it would be really appropriate to remember, let's say, "Sabbea," and 11 media are shut down by decree, erased by rubber. So 11 media are gone, because someone, in addition to any law and legal act, has erased those people, or the media. And then you didn't have the right to appeal, which is a scandal, which is what many others, of course, have said, or even NGOs, to which you often call today, so that, that kind of censorship, which then existed, and also later, only then it was manifested in that worst form, I don't think it would serve you honor. You know, someone who even admitted that it was, that the law was very bad, even though they had the courage and dignity to say something like that, unlike your people who wiped out, shut down, destroyed them by not giving them ads, but only the privileged media were doing commercials, and because they kept a complete monopoly in the advertising space, I'm talking about some of the leaders, the former, and it really doesn't make sense that you're coming back into the past, because it's a really dark, dark and very ugly past of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30852	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly, as soon as possible, to bring acts from the agenda of this session. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Momir Stojanovic. Here you go, Mr. Krlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30853	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that at the very beginning of today's debate, the minister very convincingly explained why it is necessary for us to pass this amendment of the law today, but some of the questions raised from the opposition's direction are really forcing me to make certain dilemmas and ask myself. The first round of the Media Strategy was discussed here, I will only remind myself that the Media Strategy was adopted on 28 September 2011, meaning the last Media Strategy, brought by the Government of Cvetkovic and the Media Strategy was a condition set by the EU. We heard here a few debates that went in the direction that the state should not come out of all the media, that a list of public services should be expanded, which is not in line with the prescribed Media Strategy, and then I wonder if the Serbian opposition is making a political turn from ideological neoliberalism to new socialism and whether a political turn has been made since entering the European Union. We also heard from one opposition party representative that Mediastrategics was not implemented until the end. I have to admit that this is true, but in the Media Strategy that you brought yourself, it says it's 2016. Well, this is in the direction of implementing the Media Strategy and it is within the framework of the one who sets up the Media Strategy and predicted it. The most objections were made because of the annulment and disrespect of the deadline. One national MP even said – the government has failed the implementation exam. What was easier for this Ministry and for this government than to meet the deadline and simply say, who didn't make the list and estimate the capital, can't participate in the privatisation, if I can share the shares I can, if we don't shut down the media? But this government works differently, this government is state-of-the-art. The state is a people, the state is a people, and these people are journalists, and I've eaten that bread for many years. This is about the state, taking care of the people. There's another chance that things can be fixed and people don't stay on the street. This is also the responsibility of every honour and government that in this way tries to solve the big problem that we have in the media sphere in Serbia. And how did the previous government do? The best example is "Pristina Unity", the last Serbian read in Kosovo and Metohija as being moved to Kosovo, Mitrovica. In 2009, from the Ministry of Information at the time, what I am saying is verifiable because people are still employed there, and there has been instructions to change their editorial policy, to approach official Pristina, to make an effort, to turn to the government of then-Prime Minister Thaci, because it was the only condition that, through privatisation, when hands are raised from Unity, it will be privatised by the Albanian authorities and thus become a Serbian vote that will propagate Kosovo's independence in Serbian. Fortunately, the deadlines were not respected, there was an election, and that didn't happen. On this occasion, I thank Mr. Minister and Mr. Mirkovic who have managed to make certain changes and to move to the Oneness facility and thus to the Serbian people, especially in the enclaves, place the last written window towards the queen and central Serbia. Of course, there have been a lot of objections whenever the media is mentioned here and whenever a media strategy is spoken of, or there are even talk of journalism problems in Serbia, the issue of the influence of the government is raised. I will not say whether the government and whether the prime minister influences or does not affect the media in Serbia, but I expected at least one opposition MP, at least one opposition leader to comment on the choice of Serbian Radio Television Director-General. Well, it's clear to all of us that no interference or influence has been given either by the prime minister or by this government or by this ministry. According to the new television ad – "and the sparrows on the branch know"; the election of Serbia's Radio Television Director-General was conducted according to the prescribed procedure, the Management Board made its own decision. It used to be a cake that used to be in your cabinets when you were 15 and 18 or 20% of the votes were first shared. It was the most important place, the most important target. This time, in principle, no one has moved from power to determine the man who will be head of the media service, headed by the most important possibly informative place in Serbia. It shows how much we care about freedom of the media, although many of us here were surprised to see it that way. It had to be cut once and a new principle had to be introduced, a new moral principle, in order to finally move towards full reform, a full media reform that was expected of us and this time that we started. In the end, I just want to call the MPs, support this extension due to journalists who, especially in small areas, get a new opportunity to find their prey and not lose their jobs. This is very important and I hope that in the day of voting, of course, we will adopt these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30854	Thank you, Mr. Krlic. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic, and let the MP of the people, Vladica Dimitrov, be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30855	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, two fundamental objections to these proposed amendments to the Media and Public Information Act can be drawn from the presentation of my predecessors. The first remark – why is the deadline of leaving state capital from the media and the second observation crucial to me extended – why is it not found in solutions, legal solutions that even if the regional media remain state-owned? When it comes to this first remark – why is the deadline extended, my colleague Krlić explained it very nicely. One reason is, so this extension of the deadline is not wrong for the Ministry of Information and Culture, it is primarily the media houses that did not respect the set deadline or which were not ready to take the necessary measures to be privatised. The second reason is human, as my counterpart Babic said, about 2,000 people are working in media houses around Serbia today, to give these people another deadline to manage to buy their own TV with their own means, or find other solutions and provide their own existence. When it comes to regional television and controversy over regional television, why didn't these regional televisions survive, I personally voted against the Media and Public Information Act when the law was passed in parliament 11 months ago, but when I met the media strategy, which Mr Krlić says, and when with solutions in countries, what solutions in the EU countries we are seeking in the media, then I realized that full privatisation is necessary, i.e. leaving the state out of ownership in the media. I would take this opportunity to point to one problem that my predecessors have not pointed to so far, and that is the problem of the media in the national and mixed environments in the Republic of Serbia. As you know, the state media in the environments where the national minorities are predominantly living, the state property has passed on to the ownership of national minority councils. On the other hand, this law, or law that we passed 11 months ago, abolished all state media, local and media in national mixed environments. Now I ask the question, and I ask you and the Ministry, that in some new amendments and additions to this Media and Public Information Act, you find the possibility to amend this law into a work that would provide for national and mixed environments to find the possibility to remain the media that would still be state-owned. Why am I suggesting this? You have on the territory of certain municipalities where the Serb community is in the minority. It is the municipality of Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedja, Boselegrad, Dimitrovgrad, Subotica. We now have a situation in which under the Law on National Minorities and the transfer of ownership of state-run governance to the media in these centres of the Council of National Minorities we will be assured that national minorities have media in their native language, which is quite all right, but we will have another problem, that the Serbs living in Bujanovac, through the application of this law, have been shut down Radio Bujanovac and TV Bujanovac and they will be forced to be informed of events in their local environment in a language they do not know. You will allow, perhaps one half of the Serbs in Bujanovac do not know the Albanian language and if you live in such an environment in which for days and days you cannot be informed of what is happening in it, then you will surely want to leave that environment. This will cause additional migration in Serbia and an additional unfavourable national population structure in some parts of the region. I ask you, because it is absolutely certain, this is asked by the people of Medvedja, Bujanovac, Presheva, where it is simply an economy such that people cannot, privates, come in and buy the media, even more so, some national minorities are economically stronger and we will have media darkness when it comes to members of a nation, a nation. I think it is quite justified to think that in the perspective of some changes and additions that predict some solutions for these environments, because we will have a serious problem, and believe that citizens, many have called from Bujanovac, they will suffer for a few months, and then people will want to go where they can be informed in their native language. When it comes to regional television, such as low television, I am sorry that my colleague Bradic is not in the O.R. today, but when it comes to low television, I speak through it many other regional televisions, which is the television from the city where I come from, well, I won't say, but the citizens of Nis know, that I am also through the parliamentary question and just voting against the Law on Public Information and the media, precisely because this law does not predict the existence of regional televisions, and among them, my fellow MPs from Nis have done much more than Mr Bradic has done since the signing of the years behind us for the survival of television, 30,000 signatures, until public obstruction of the adoption of the law as a member of the majority, risking me to be criticised, much more done in the survival of television television. Any politicisation in this regard and the struggle over the media with some of the political squires for me is unacceptable and is not acceptable for the SNS. But, please, without entering RTS's policy as a public media service for Serbia, try to strengthen with the director and with the RTS management, the representations of the Public Service of Serbia, which it has today and in Kragujevac, Nis and in many regional centres, as if the programming scheme provided little more space for reporting from those areas, not just from the federal level. I think that this solution is one of the good solutions, not getting into editorial policy, simply, looking for a bigger space for reporting about what's happening in our regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30856	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vladica Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30857	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, as regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Information and Media, which concerns the extension of the deadline for the privatisation of the media, I support it in any case, because it is essentially another attempt to find a buyer for most media houses, and thus they continue their mission, to inform citizens, and workers in them keep their jobs. Not getting into controversy about public and regional media services, however, I will pay attention to the media broadcasting the programme in the language of national minorities. At first, I will notice that there is a difference between information houses from one national minority to another, so there are differences in national councils. Some are media founders, there are national advices that are not the founders of the media and there are national advices, such as the National Council of the Bulgarian National Minority, which do not want to be the founders of a foundation that will deal with media content production, and for reasons why there is simply no stable source of funding, which supports the experience, because the Bulgarian national minority had a printed medium. It was the Brethren newspaper house, which printed Sunday's Fraternity magazine in Bulgarian and which went out over forty years, which was the moment when the state decided to leave the ownership structure and stopped financing, so it became a national council and stopped saying it existed because the national council couldn't find enough money to finance the weekly. We are witnessing that there are no more Sundays, magazines in Bulgarian. Also, there used to be an information show on RTS. It was called Journal, and it broadcasts in Bulgarian, half-hourly. And she's been gone for years. At the moment, the Bulgarian national minority is informed via Radio TV "Caribrod" in Dimitrovgrad and Radio "Bosilegrada" in Bosilegrad. These are the two only media broadcasts in the Bulgarian national minority language, therefore, in Bulgarian. Both media are absolutely non-profitable and funded 100% from the budget of the local self-government of Dimitrovgrad and Bosilegrad. When I say unprofitable, I don't just think they're non-profitable at this point, but there's no way they can be profitable. In fact, the Bulgarian national minority lives in municipalities that are devastated, where practically business activities do not exist and there is no way that these media can be commercial on the market, to find some sources of funding without being local budgets. In a system like this or with such a law on public information and the media in force, the inevitable nature of these media is to shut them down. Namely, if the National Council does not want to, and this is publicly stated, to establish any foundation that will deal with the production of media content in the Bulgarian language, if the environment itself does not offer the possibility that there is a buyer who will be interested in these media, because they are unprofitable, if workers themselves, because they are the owners of actions, etc. Dinkic's actions cannot, through actions to gain the right to manage these media, unless there is a way for the civil sector's cells to take over the work of these media, since that station would also be financed from the budget of local self-government, then I do not see the point of coming out of state, or public capital from the media, then it is the imminent shutting down of these media. However, there is now another problem. By shutting down these latest media forms, the constitution guarantees the Bulgarian national minority's right to inform itself in Bulgarian is a factical gas, as you no longer have a medium that broadcasts the programme in Bulgarian. This has been discussed through several forums, round tables. Conclusions have been made, suggestions for a solution. In any case, it was also tried by the Assembly Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with its session outside parliament headquarters in Dimitrovgrad on 19 June this year. At that session were a large number of representatives of national councils, media and local self-government, and there is simply one appeal to the Ministry of Information and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, where national minority rights concern, to find a solution, because the state must not turn its head and deny that there is such a specific problem. I am aware that any direction of a solution that goes in terms of any relief in the media that broadcasts the programme in the language of national minorities will result in abuse by the media itself, local, regional, who will try to take advantage of it, but there is another option. There are few municipalities in which the official language is, the language of the national minority is in official use. That is why my appeal is to find a very sustainable solution to media funding that broadcasts a programme in the language of national minorities in municipalities where the language is officially used. The funding is in any case from local budgets, as citizens of these municipalities have given their consent to finance these media from their money. I am aware that this is not the area of the Ministry of Information itself, but local self-government will in any case send its congregation decisions to accept the continued financing of these media. It is only important to find a legal solution that would be incorporated into this Public Information Act and the media. I'm sure this problem will be solved because a lot of eyes are facing this problem, but I have to say that I hope that we will solve it and that he will not experience the situation to be solved elsewhere, because I will take that as my personal and our failure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30858	The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30859	We are fully aware of the problems and challenges you spoke of, as well as your distinguished predecessor. We are otherwise in constant contact with representatives of national councils of national minorities. In particular, in Bujanovac there was a meeting that lasted more than six hours, where the representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information and provided information on what is available under the existing law, means in which way, or in the language of national minorities, or how it will be kept in Kosovo and Metohija, informed in Serbian. We're aware of that, and that's the thing to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30860	The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30861	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I am going to discuss a subject that we haven't dealt with very much, and we consider it very important. It is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of China on the mutual establishment of cultural centres. China and Serbia have decades of friendly relations and traditionally good co-operation. For Serbia, good bilateral relations with the Republic of China, one of the world's economic giants, are extremely important, and business activities spread around the world. There is almost no country where Chinese economy and culture have no influence. Diplomatic relations were set up on 2 January 1955, and the first bilateral agreement was right in the area of culture. It is an agreement between the FNRJ government and the Government of the People's Republic of China on cultural co-operation, ratified in 1957. The co-operation of two friendly countries in recent years has been increasingly intense, and more acts have been signed, especially in the fields of culture, art, education and economic co-operation. A special programme of cultural co-operation between the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Culture of the People's Republic of China for the period 2008 to 2012. The crown of this extremely fertile cultural co-operation, China and Serbia, is just an agreement on the establishment of Chinese cultural centres in Belgrade and Serbia in Beijing. The act was preceded by the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on the mutual establishment of cultural centres between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China in July 2010. The Cooperation Programme in the field of culture and art for the period 2013 to 2016 is also in force with the intention of improving mutual co-operation towards cultural and artistic exchange, and in order to create cultural links between these two countries. The programme includes co-operation in the field of theatre, opera, ballet and music through the exchange of cultural content, exchange of artists and experts, promotion of cooperation in the field of archaeology, restoration, protection of cultural heritage, as well as the establishment of direct contacts of specialised cultural heritage protection institutions, and the promotion of direct cooperation between museums in order to exchange publications and informative materials. The Confucius Institute in Belgrade officially opened on 27 August 2006 at the Faculty of Philology of the University of Belgrade. After signing the Memorandum of Education and Cultural Cooperation between the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China. Serbia agreed in June 2015 to be an honorary guest at the prestigious Shanghai Film Festival, where a review of modern Serbian cinema will be organised to present itself to the Chinese audience, but also to the dynamic Chinese market. Serbia will be an honorary guest at the Beijing Book Fair in September 2015, which presents an exceptional opportunity for Serbian literature to draw closer to Chinese readers and publishers. The priority is to directly connect the two countries' institutions and it is agreed to start visiting Chinese experts at the Forbidden City Museum in Beijing, which will work in the National Museum to restore the work of Chinese art and organise workshops for colleagues from Belgrade. It is known that Serbia and China have decades of co-operation in the field of film art. Everyone knows the phenomenon of the movie and the series "Walter defends Sarajevo" which has cult status in China, and Velimir Bata Zivojinovic is one of the most popular actors of all time in China. In China, the film "Beautiful Villages Nicely Up" was very popular, and last year the film "Montideo" was shown on TV in front of one of the world's largest audiences. The Chinese film is in big expansion and has won prizes in the world's largest festivals in recent years. He is also present at our international festivals, Festo, Palić Festival, the Festival of Authorial Film and attracts great attention from the local audience. Chinese literature is increasingly present in Serbia. The books of the first Chinese Nobel laureate Mo Jen, winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2012, are very popular and read happily. I use the opportunity to recommend to my colleagues the last book of Mo Jen, called “Tired of Life and Death, ” which is indeed a fascinating fresco of the new Chinese history, the second decade of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century. We look forward to the Cultural Centre of the People's Republic of China in Belgrade and it is truly strange that such a great civilization has not had its own cultural centre so far. Starting with the importance of bilateral co-operation with the Republic of China, the SPS parliamentary group will be very pleased to support the ratification of this Agreement on the mutual establishment of our two countries' cultural centres.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30862	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30863	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with co-workers from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Information and the media. First of all, this law is directly linked to the Privatisation Act, which was adopted on 28 May 2015. The Privatisation Act stipulates for all privatisation entities that they are obliged to carry out a list and assess the fair market value of total assets, liabilities and capital with a state until 31 October 2015. This, of course, applies to the media, and especially to the Tanjug News Agency. For her, as for all media, the date was, as far as privatisation is concerned, July 1st, but now this has been moved to October 31st, 2015. That's very good for quality. First, we have time, or people who will privatize these media will have time for a good assessment. This is even better for people who are employed. This is one game of competition, and whoever works, whoever's competent, who's professional, will survive, and whoever doesn't, won't. It's especially good for the media in the smaller environments, because young people have a chance of getting a job. What to say is that the Tanjug news agency as well as the Federal Public Institute Radio Yugoslavia won, the deadlines were moved, I told Tanjug it was October 31st for Radio Yugoslavia it was July 31st. It should be stressed that both media unless the law is respected, but only if a call for privatisation is issued by July 1st. If this does not happen, of course, this law will not apply to these two media services, or media services. What's there to say? For the functioning of this law, additional funds should be allocated from the Serbian budget, and this is approximately for the Tanjug news agency and Radio Yugoslavia about 100,000 euros, more specifically for the Tanjug news agency 87,291,665 dinars, and for Radio Yugoslavia 19,666,000 dinars, a fairly large figure and, of course, this money will be earned again. But if privatisation occurs, the funds return to the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is normal, which is what needs to be done. The aim of the proposal for a law on public information is to enable successful privatisation of all media and that is good. The state finally wants to come out of ownership and not only of the state, but of the local self-government founded by those media and the provinces. What I would say is that extended solutions will affect privatisation entities and media publishers, extending the privatisation period creates conditions for privatisation to end in a very good way, both for employees of media founders and for capital buyers. The law on public information as far as I'm concerned is very good, we're in reform, one. Two, we must respect the EU and all the postulates that come from it. And what is most important to say about this law that I am pleased to vote for and my party, the Serbian Progressive Party, is that many ministries have participated in the realisation of this law, these are the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, then the Office of the Justice and, of course, the Privatisation Agency. It should also be said that the office's opinion on European integration, which means we have one broad access to this law and this law is excellent. Just someone who doesn't want to understand what privatisation means and what a match means and why it wasn't set a few years ago, won't understand why we're passing this law today. What I would still point out and what is very important to me is that by banning the financing of media from public revenues, it does not refer to public services at national and regional level, an institution formed to exercise public information rights in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija and to media whose founding rights have been transferred to the national councils of national minorities until the entry into force of this law. National minorities are our treasures, I really think, and every country that has as many national minorities as possible, religion is a rich, valuable country of attention. Of course, in the voting day, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30864	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Boban Birmancevic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milovan Drecun. Here you go, Dr. Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30865	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, respected citizens, the process of media reform just one more step, another step in the reforms that this government, this Assembly and we as MPs who directly influence the laws that are proposed, we have the opportunity to change something and bring things into line with the opinions we have. That is why this process of media reform must be completed in order for the objectives to be outlined to remain. All that has been done in the media, of course, is a major shift compared to 2007, and I will remind you that the conditions for media privatisation were created in 2007. Many governments have since 2007 delayed media privatisation to this day, this government simply recognizes problems, does not put them under the rug, but solves them in a way that is best for both citizens and for media owners, and for workers themselves, or for those media employees. The privatisation of these media that will be done has been delayed by four months, but I will explain two basic reasons why the deadline has been moved. First of all, in order to create conditions for the privatisation, i.e. the sale of the media to be achieved in a fair and market way. What is most important is that the price of the media in the beginning will be determined by the commission, i.e. professional services, but the most important thing is that the media will be sold at fair and market value, given that all media will start from Study B to any other, even to the media in Šapco where I come from, at the price that the market will determine. So there is no need for anyone in this room and anyone in Serbia to think about what the price is, or what price the media will reach. The one that will be the most favourable at that moment will reach and be quoted at the sale itself. It is very important and therefore it is good that this deadline is delayed, that those local media who failed to prepare the necessary documentation or who could not respond to the change that the Privatisation Act was voted on in May, to express the value of their media in a state after 31 December 2014, have time to do so and that is the second reason why this has to be moved. There's no conspiracy theory here, this is the most honest possible option. Practice will show in the future that this is the only way to prevent budget abuse in local self-government. The abuse of budgets in local self-governments has been mirrored precisely by the fact that as we in the town of Šapcu, I am talking about Capac because I represent the citizens of this city, as we have two media outlets, one is owned by local self-government and one is a private medium. If the Shabac TV can't handle Alexander Vukic's arrival in Koceljev at 20 kilometers from Šapac, for them he was in the Mačvan County, then it shows enough how objective or unobstructed the medium can be, that is, how much he can not inform citizens about the developments in the district, and we are talking first of all about regional media. When media sales are made in that case, no mayor or in the town of Šapcu, nor in Panchev, will be able to pay the money in the budget for his political campaign. It was a practice in previous years, and this practice will give up by selling the media because it will not be possible. If someone wants to finance their campaign, they can only do it from their own resources, not from the resources of the citizens of Zapac or any other city. I also cite the “Glas Podrinja” owned by the Privatisation Agency, given that one privatisation has been cancelled, the first five sides are leased by local self-government, this will not be possible in the coming period, because fair and market value of media sales will be done and all will be equal. What we're looking for in the media law is exactly the same conditions for everything. We need to explain to the citizens that they know there's no problem with the ministry or the government. The delay is due to the fact that, among other things, local self-government, which is mainly owned by regional media, has not prepared the necessary documentation for sale. It doesn't matter if there is someone from the SNS or any other party in these local media, or local authorities, responsibility is on local self-government. If the media is shut down, make sure that at this point the basic error was in the owners of local regional television, it was mainly local self-government. In Serbia, to the power of the SNS, and these governments, many things were not known, so it was not known who the media owners were either. On October 30th, when this process is completed in accordance with this law, which we will discuss on Monday and, of course, with certain amendments that will be either accepted or rejected, it will be understood exactly who the media owners are in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and who they finance and how the media is financed. Dear colleagues from the opposition, you have no reason to point out on some savings, given that, of course, local self-government will have to increase, i.e. to rebalance their budgets and to comply with the change created by the vote of this law. They will have to provide funds for another four months to finance their local, regional media and printed media. Believe me, given what was destroyed in previous years, and that on October 31st, we will have a clear picture of who the media owners are and who finance the media, where no media will be owned by the state, or local self-government, will stop with the spending of budget funds to finance any media at the local level. What I'm trying to say is that this government, of course, will continue with the reforms, and in line with that, we expect to continue our work on Monday after the vote of this media reform law as we have begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30866	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun, and let Milan Stevanovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Dracun.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30867	Dear Mr. Minister, guests, chairman, fellow MPs, I find it acceptable to explain the reasons for this law. The media area is very dynamic, it is turbulent, it is alive, it requires constant adaptation to a legislative framework that needs to actually create conditions for as objective information to the public as possible. But I have a question here that doesn't make me feel better, to paraphrasise a single movie quote -- thank God, here's a 30-year-old media presence. The key question that bothers me is actually - did the media in which the state owned, or was it the founder, state, autonomous province, local self-government, fulfill their basic task, objectively informing the public, or should the announced privatisation do so? Do we have any experience in this area? I will pay your attention to point 8. in an impact analysis, asking whether the act stimulates the emergence of new operators on the market and competition – the answer is the provision of the proposed law will create conditions to end the privatisation process of media publishers, which will have positive effects on economic operators and the development of competition, the development of market competition in the media space, so I understand. Is that right? It seems to me that this law, in fact, perhaps the first step to create one, I would call it a zero situation in the media space, that all but those that are intended as exceptions to the law, start with one equal base, as far as funding is concerned, therefore, ownership. But I'm a little worried about the situation from the past. When I say the past, I mean a little longer. In fact, how have the private media functioned so far? There were those at the municipal level both at national level and at the level of the autonomous province? How are they financed? Did they get money from the state and local self-government? Some of them are. But my experience is such that it says that those who received, say, money from the budget, whether municipalities or provinces, or republics, actually had an obligation to promote the ideologies of a party's political attitudes that could allow them to get money. On the other hand, we had an impact on these private media by people who were in the state apparatus, or ruling parties, in a way that was purchased marketing from private companies and that money, or advertising, was then awarded only to those media who, again, supported the party's policy, which supports, let's say, the house that gets the money for marketing. Now I don't quite understand how we're going to avoid all of this in the next period. All right, let's create this zero situation, they're all equal, we have project co-financing, as far as I can tell. I think that we should not stay at this first step of creating conditions for objective information to the public, but that we must all look further together and that we are often changing the legislative framework to come into a situation where we really have media that will be freed from party, political and any other pressure, of course, which can affect that the media is unilaterally determined rather than objectively inform the public. So I will support this first step in creating a situation that can lead us to the necessary degree of freedom, the objectivity of the media, but I am absolutely confident that even society in Serbia, that you subjects politically, that the public of Serbia, especially those who work in the media, want us to get into the situation very quickly so that they can inform the public objectively. It is up to you, Mr. Minister, now in the next period of obligation that whether once, twice or five times you propose amendments to the law, you do so because the law should monitor events, the law should adapt to new conditions, new realities, and it should be the one to create a framework for objective public information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30868	Thank you, Mr. Dracun. The word is made by Minister Ivan Tasovac. Here you go, Mr. Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30869	It seems to me that part of the answer to these questions of yours is already in the existing law, not in these amendments and additions. Number one, it's a media register. It will be very interesting to see who will be included in the media register by August of the month, and the prerequisite that it could be applied after that for project co-financing is precisely to clearly know the ownership structure of the media. That's one thing. Also, through the media register, it will be visible exactly how much giving everything can be considered as state aid, including marketing public enterprises. Just looking at everything that has been missed in the past decades, it seems to me that we have been able to find solutions to open this new law and move on, and of course the process of editing the media scene, as well as the process of human freedoms, is an uninterrupted process and a debate about it is good to keep going, because all democratic countries are having an extremely lively debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30870	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by MP Milan Stevanovic, and be prepared by Goran Mladenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30871	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat an English proverb that those who do not know their history are doomed to repeat it. That's what I'm talking about to the opposition, even though I don't like to deal with the opposition. We need to deal with citizens' problems and exactly what they've been doing, we won't. That's why we deal with them so it doesn't happen to us again. From what I understand, the opposition's main observation is that we're breaking something we brought ourselves. Of course, when we work and of course when we resist. On the other hand, the government is fully consistent with its plan and programme, which is the market and the fight and this law makes it possible for us in some way. The state's not a good owner. We've shown that public companies that have a full monopoly and everywhere in the world would be profitable, and we don't. What's the problem if we privatize the media? Why do we assume that by privatizing the media we're going to shut them down? Isn't it perhaps a new modern policy that someone will enter the money that the current owner doesn't have? We're going to take the big problem off the budget, we're going to take down that manipulation that we've had in the media and we're going to recover our media space. What's been happening to us so far? The president of the municipality or the mayor, the first thing he did earlier, changed the director of the local media. Why? Well, to influence, the media wouldn't be completely neutral. ‘Studio B’, for example. People in "Study B" expect a new investor, they don't have enough money, they cut debts, but they don't have enough money to modernise their equipment and thus increase their ratings further. What's the problem? In 2012, I remember well, at Studio B, none of the opposition people could be there. Not only could he not, but he didn't do the part that was meant for him at all, and we all paid for it. Of course, every time you bring a solution, there are good things and bad things. It's not ideal, but it's much better than what we had. I've only got one thing left. I have a small reserve for Tanjug or for the New Yugoslavia Telegraph Agency. Although she has an archaic name, she has a brand. Now that you're setting up a new one, I don't know how we're gonna do it, to set the price for it. It's very difficult to determine when you have a brand and when you exist on the market for so many years. And not only that, you have an image. What my colleague Dragan Jovanovic says, when Tanjug reports, that's some security. I've only got that reserve on whether we should do it that way, right out of this statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30872	Thank you. The word is made by MP Goran Mladenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with an associate for 15 years, has been talking about media privatisation, for 15 years trying different sets of media laws to address the issue of privatization of media that are in public property. In particular, however, nothing has been done on this issue until the adoption of the Law on Public Information and Media, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information and Media, which is currently on the agenda, which we are discussing and which implies the prolonging of the period for the privatisation of the media, which provides for the possibility of selling them by 31 October 2015, after which the company's actions will be put out of service or the media. The bill is not on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the period given to the media in public property should be used for the best preparation for selling it. This must be a clear message from parliament to all media, employees and management, that is, media management that is the subject of privatisation, for the simple reason that after privatisation the media should continue broadcasting the programme over the next five years and thus meet the conditions of sales that are also being put before it. When I say that the best preparation is done for sale, then I mean the state where the media is currently in the media, and that means that most media has outdated technology, that most media have outdated equipment, that most of the media that are the subject of privatisation has an excessive number of employees. What is perhaps the biggest problem, is that most of the media that are the subject of privatisation achieve up to 20% of their own incomes, or 80% and more are revenues that come from public sources for their work and their financing. All this makes the media inert, that the media is unproductive, that the media is inefficient and inexplicable in the extreme line. It is therefore necessary to use the period from the next four months as best as possible and by working together to reduce the number of employees, through social programmes, through severances, employees who do not see themselves in the business of the media in the perspective, in order to reduce the number of media employees to an optimal number. As a second thing in the period ahead of us to pay attention, it is certainly that employees are engaged in finding new forms of media promotions, because the new conditions of business and new conditions of social development dictate and require new forms of media information, i.e. new forms of media promotion, media campaign. When I say that, I mean using the Internet and social networks, which require less costs, which require less investment, which have wider effects and impacts. This will be a challenge for all employees over the next four months and in the period after privatisation. Of course, through project financing, after the privatisation deadline, whether it is sold to a potential buyer or the actions have been transferred to media employees, both the state and local self-government have turned and helped the media that are the subject of privatisation, first for their existence and then towards their development. In particular, local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities in which the media that are the subject of privatisation are the only means of information. I believe that meeting these conditions, identifying optimal number of employees, identifying new modern forms of promotions and helping through project financing, the media have a chance after 31 October, having a perspective and after the privatisation they can function and broadcast their programmes. In this way, this law actually determines the interests and interests of different stakeholders. When I say that, then I think of a country that will finally be able to get out of the ownership structure of public media, to finally close down and conclude a 15-year-old topic that concerns the privatisation of media that are publicly owned. Workers receive support through social programmes and severances to carry out their requalification, for those who do not see themselves in future media business. That is, those who remain to work in the media create for themselves conditions that their business, or media, operates on optimal principles, or operates on sound grounds. Therefore, the draft law amending and supplementing the Information and Media Act, which is before us today, is in the interests of the state, in the interests of local self-government, in the interests of cities, in the interests of municipalities, in the interests of workers who are employed and who continue to work in these media and in the interests of workers who should possibly come out of these media. After all, it is also in the interest of the media that is the subject of privatisation. That's why the SNS votes for the modern Information and Media Act. That's why the SNS is voting for modern and advanced forms of information. That is why the SNS is voting for modern and advanced Serbia, which will be fully and accurately informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30874	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30875	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, the process of completing the privatization of the media, which is fully or partly financed from public incomes, is a bit like that Alibabin dilemma, which is roughly – if you go in, you will regret it, if you do not enter, you will regret it. It is not a questionable fact that both state and local self-government are very bad employers, especially in segments that we can call natural or bankruptcy monopoly. The media, in principle and in principle, do not belong to a group of socially necessary monopolies, of course, with the exception of public service, where we have already agreed more or less on how to regulate the financing of services such a medium has to provide to citizens. Why did I mention that dilemma at first? First of all, for the reason of one generally accepted impression that privatisation in Serbia did not go in the direction of achieving the original intentions and expected effects, in all actions -- in the economy, in the economy, and in the media sphere. We all know that companies were bought for a very different nature than the intention of the state to privatise, even though they publicly demonstrated their intentions. This has happened often enough to make it possible to suspect that this will happen in media privatisation. Mandatory deadlines, given in terms of the obligation to keep the software schemes found, were just enough for the new owner to prepare and prepare for another activity, completely different from the media. This, on the one hand, could have its real economic logic - the entrepreneurial spirit of private capital is investing in what the market is looking for, not what anyone likes. So we have a commitment and awareness, and the most important awareness, that at least a million reasons is necessary for the state and lower levels of government to withdraw from the media, for reasons of economic, and especially for the reasons of political and political nature, because the media, especially local, were reported by the municipal authorities, which my colleagues were already talking about, while they were financed by all citizens. The editors thought of it as going to those who were in those places and setting them up. The future local spin-masters have been selected on the basis of the eligibility criteria of their own spine, ready to be burned themselves. And journalists of all ranks, from barometers to columnists, acted mostly alike, some because they were minding their own business, without the idea of being leaders of a brighter future, while others, unorthodox journalists, agreed to everything, knowing that they had acquired undeserved positions anyway. Of course, journalism suffered the most in that confusion, or at least what should be meant by that. Calls for a thunderous silence for freedom of the media have caused increasing deafness among citizens year by year, in the sense that media MPs support the fight for freedom of the media, with citizens completely persuading them. It wasn't about the true esnaf's legitimate request, it was about trying to animate the citizens, so that everything else would be the way it is, i.e. to finance as long as possible and as much as possible about other people's expenses. The media were left behind in the early 2000s without being prepared for the role, but had no objective conditions at all, so it happened that the media market had thrown out at first at least two politically modified and mutated media varieties. Ones who manage well to position themselves on the market, and in fact they were very saved and garbage from the kitchen by their real financials, hidden in deep-mixage. The second column was led by novices and TV freaks, abuse of freedom of performance in public discourse, whose most embarrassing consequence is the destruction of generations of young people, who are irrevocably fueled by a system of values in the worst possible sense, misinformed perceptions where the life of an estheradus is allowed in all, and even what a decent world exorcises behind walls, away from the most persistent voyeurs. And that's it, at least in the shortest. So I have no illusion that one law and a hundred laws will be able to resolve all of this which, thanks to the media or only through them, has been directly or indirectly released. The damage was done a long time ago, and it was a big one. How many new owners will possibly deal with what's called educational, not to say enlightening, role-playing media, will show time. I'm not much of an optimist here. So I think that the role of independent regulatory bodies should be more extensive, more regular and quality. There's still a lot of work to be done, but I'm sure nothing good will happen unless something starts. In that sense, I will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30876	The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Tatomir, has the word. Sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30877	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Mirkovic, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will look back at three things when it comes to this debate today. First, a number of fellow Members of Parliament today completely ignored in their discussions one important fact that we also envisaged project financing by adopting media laws last year. Why do I say that? Because the law that was passed last year provided for all local self-government to determine one part of media funding and information in their environments. I don't think it's going to be a problem either that we've extended the four-month privatisation period, since that part of the funds has already been set, it's about 2.5% of the total budget. Thus, project financing implies that all televisions, all media in one local self-government can compete with their projects for informing local environments, so that in some areas there will be no possibility of local community being informed, I think it is shrinking to complete. Secondly, I also think that in these local environments where we have national minorities, their media can compete in this funding project. Secondly, I would point out that there should be no problem, when it comes to funding local media, with this project financing. Secondly, there is a possibility that in some local environments a gap arises, when it comes to information, and there I fully understand the concerns of people in some cities in Serbia, such as. Nis. That gap should, in fact, fill RTS in one way, as a public media service, and not by any law, as some colleagues here have suggested, but simply by their own internal organization. As you know, RTS has its correspondence in all the district centers and should simply turn these correspondence into regional centres. I think that's possible. I will mention an example of RTS correspondence from Jagodina, which had a two-hour programme on local topics between 1999 and 2001. Of course, this should be done from 1 January of the following year, when a fee is introduced, i.e. a subscription for RTS financing, because at that time RTS will know which means it can be available on an annual basis, so that it can plan. Of course, and if there is a problem with the number of workers in those districts, there is a story that there are extra workers in RTS, and that is in Belgrade, so one part of the workers could move to these correspondence centres, that is, these regional centres. I didn't make anything up. In some European countries, such practice exists. For example, in France, where all these district centers have their regional studies and their regional television and broadcast a programme from their region and even for all of Serbia. Since we started digitization about a month ago, it can be done without a problem. The third thing I would like to mention, and yet as far as TANJUGA is concerned, I would like to ask, simply and simply, the European News Agency Association sent a letter to the Serbian Government a few days ago, simply asking the Serbian Government to provide conditions for further work as a very important media company. This, among other things, is a compliment from TENJUG from colleagues, as it is, in the association there are both the APF and the Italian and German news agencies and so on. So, in any case, I would ask the people of the Ministry of Culture and Information that if there are any problems, if no one calls to privatise this TANJUG, there is simply some way to keep TANJUG working. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30878	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word has Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30879	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, Secretary of State, allow me to look back on this bill from the point of view of the Bosnian people's representatives in this House, and at the very beginning, I will say that the MPs of the SDA Sandzak will not support this bill, because we think that this time too, the chance for these amendments and the addition of the law to provide them with real and effective mechanisms to ensure the implementation of the legal provisions and also to provide criminal provisions for those who do not respect the law. The very definition of Serbia's state as the states of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it, places members of the national communities who are indigenous to these areas in second order. From every arrangement of the Republic of Serbia, all legal solutions that, in an irregular, often subordinated and discriminatory position are also created by members of minority communities and make it impossible and difficult to use rights, and one of these rights is the use of their native language in all areas. One of these areas is certainly extremely important, certainly informing. By law defined by the rights of members of national minorities and their legitimate representatives, in practice they are abolished, narrowed and reduced, by the illegal conduct of the perpetrators, and precisely by the absence of adequate mechanisms to ensure implementation of the provisions of the law, we are coming up with reasons why we will not support this law. The overall constitutional and legal framework of the Republic of Serbia does not provide sufficient guarantees to members of national communities on their adequate protection and full implementation of individual and collective rights guaranteed first by the Constitution and then by the laws of this country, but also by the European Charter of Use of Regional and Minority Languages. The decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia of 16 January 2014, which declared certain provisions of the Law on National Councils unconstitutional to a significant extent, reduced the jurisdiction and authority of national councils of national minorities. Such a decision has also affected the reduction of the legal competences of national councils, thus reducing the rights of members of national communities and the possibility of protecting their identity, has also prepared the basis for reducing these competences in other areas. In the area of information explicitly, the Republic of Serbia did not provide mechanisms for the broadcasters to offer content in Bosnian. The Law on Electronic Media, Article 36 provides that the amount of compensation for the provision of media services shall be determined taking into account, inter alia, the audio software content in minority languages. However, the legal provisions did not affect the level and extent that the broadcasters would offer content in the Bosnian language under their programme. Although the Law on Public Information and Media regulates a way of ensuring continuity in the broadcasting of media content of public interest over a period of five years with the obligation to maintain software content in the languages of national minorities, all of this is no guarantee for us, because the question is – what will end after those five years of that deadline and how and how we will ensure public interest in information in the Bosnian language. I would like to emphasise that the Bosniak National Council is not included in any television, in any way, in the creation of software content, although media laws prescribe and regulate the participation of national councils of national minorities in the creation of programmes in the languages of national minorities. Since 2012, the Ministry of Culture and Information has ceased to co-finance the printing of the Sanjay newspaper weekly, as the only printed media in Bosnian and as a direct consequence of that decision, the ministry has had three years of Bosniaks not having a single printed note in its native, Bosniak language. Although information in the languages of national minorities is treated as a public interest, this is the most harshly ignored and violated law on the ratification of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. Again, we are going back to that huge gap that all the bill proposals have, and this is also this one, which is a lack of guarantee mechanisms for implementation, i.e. a lack of criminal provisions to violate the provisions of the law, especially those concerning the exercise of the rights of members of the national communities. Also on RTS reportedly, the public service of all Serbian citizens, Bosniaks are not represented by the media. Regular broadcasting in Bosnian would improve development, tolerance and multiculturalism in the area of the Republic of Serbia and build positive attitudes among the majority Serb people both towards Bosniaks and other national communities. However, RTS does not broadcast a single minute of its programme in Bosnian. There is no programme, no single Bosnian-language show, although Bosniaks are one of the most numerous national communities in the Republic of Serbia. In 2007, a protocol was signed with the RTS Programme Committee on Co-operation on this, but so far no small step has been taken to encourage, facilitate, create or broadcast any programme in Bosnian language in RTS. The Ministry of Culture and Information, as well as the leadership of RTS, has on several occasions been asked to form a minority language redistribution that would prepare minority language programmes in the central part of Serbia. However, nothing has been done on this plan or in regulatory bodies, it is not possible for the interests of members of the Bosniak national community to be presented and taken into account when appointed in those bodies. Despite the legislation that one member of the REM regulatory body's advice on electronic media, once being a RRA, is elected on a proposal from national councils of national minorities, the Bosniak National Council is not allowed to propose a member of this regulatory body. When it comes to the Bosniak National Council, it is also not allowed to participate in the process of appointing governance structures in the Republic of Serbia or even in the process of appointing a responsible Bosnian language editor on regional television in Novi Pazar. The Bosniak national council has declared this regional television an institution of special importance for members of the Bosniak national community living in the Republic of Serbia and for this reason you and as minister have received a request from the Bosniak Development Council to suspend the privatisation process of this media, and in addition to these reasons, there are a whole series of reasons why the regional television of Novi Pazar should be excluded from the privatisation process. The story of advertising is being followed by numerous irregularities, abuses, and embezzlements of budget funds by the ruling majority in Novi Pazar, and with the support of the versatile involvement and individual members of the government. So, for all of these reasons that I've just listed, we're not going to support this bill, because this is just another one in a series of missed opportunities to provide effective mechanisms for the adequate application of all the laws that we are making here, especially those concerning individual collective rights of members of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30880	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30881	Thank you, Your Honor. Since the minister hasn't responded in one single sentence to my presentation from the beginning. I'll try to ask you some more questions, maybe just so it doesn't stay if that's not what this is all about. So, how can we, Mr. Minister, trust you to believe that a job you haven't finished in the past 11 months will end in the next four months? 11 months ago, you said there were 81 media to privatize. You said 74 today. So, in 11 months, seven is over, and now you think we should expect that in four months, 74 will be over. And what did you do? It can't be, when you come here and ask for an extension of the deadline, only responsibility on local self-governments that haven't done some part of the job, to those who handle public media, to the director of Tanjuga, to the director of Radio Yugoslavia. Everyone seems to be responsible but you're not. What you've been doing as a minister since the start of your mandate is to stay out of your business, and whenever there's a criticism, you say - I have nothing to do with it. So, you have nothing to do with the state of the media, with reporters without borders finding that censorship and self-censorship exist in Serbia, that the State Department today says that there is harassment, threats and pressure on journalists who run the autocensorship, that we have had a hack on an independent institution's executive, it has been going on in the media for months. You're not responsible for anything, and then you're looking for a new deadline here. What were you doing for 11 months, so you didn't have time to do it? Now it takes you another month to solve the issue of Radio Yugoslavia. I'd like to hear that answer. What did you do so much and then you didn't get here for another month? Where is your responsibility, Minister? I can only vote for this bill the way you sent it if I get your resignation in addition to this law. To tell you the truth, I'm responsible, I haven't been able to finish this job. I'm leaving a deadline where I think it's possible to do it and I want someone else to be very lucky in that job. We cannot give you gentlemen ministers support for a new deadline, because you have not explained to us in any single word why the work you have proposed here, and the majority of the assembly has not been completed, except that everyone else is responsible. You will come again in four months and say, "This one is responsible, and what will happen?" The fact is that privatization of the media is going hard, those who have stayed at the end and are hardly going to have someone under these conditions for five years maintaining a program in terms of how it is foreseen by a law that has so far not been commercial and has not brought profits, that someone will take, buy such a medium and work on a programming scheme, I am talking about the electronic media that has existed in the last year. If that were profitable, you'd already find a buyer. It's hard to find a buyer. So, it's a very difficult destiny and uncertain, those 2,000 people, how much they still work. I call on you to vote and accept our amendment that this interpretation is completely illogical, the agency, that those who have received these free actions, like all Serbian citizens, cannot now participate in the privatisation of the media, that this interpretation is simply legally resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30882	The word is made by Minister Tasovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30883	I'm very sorry that you spent most of your time out of the O.R., so you probably didn't hear the part in which I spoke clearly and about the responsibility that I feel as the Minister of Culture and Information and the responsibility of the state, but also the responsibilities of all other public-scene actors, including the media themselves, who were obliged to launch this process of local self-government, etc. I'd say one more thing, there's a responsibility for all of us who are part of the public scene, including yours. Are you pushing for the state to come out, and the media or not? If you are in favour, regardless of what was proposed by the ruling majority and regardless of what was the government's proposal, you could contribute, simply to making this process go a little more painless and to explain to people in a better way, that it is possible simply to make it a new way for these media. I'm not saying it's an easy process, but simply, it's the only possible process, so either we are for the continuation of media reforms or we're not for the continuation of media reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30884	The word has been made by MP Vesna Marjanović, you have six minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30885	I'd like to quote, I'd like to quote Article 123 point 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that – the government enforces the laws and other acts of the National Assembly. So that we will never again listen to representatives of the government calling for the responsibility of everyone but themselves, since the Constitution clearly states that it is their duty to enforce the laws. Like Mr. Djurisic, I am not satisfied, because I have not received any answers to any questions, and I hope the minister answers me, by measuring with a stopwatch as much as anyone sitting in the hall, because you, and I think that Mr. Chairman, should have responded, because I don't think the ministers have the right to speak to any MP in this way. In doing so, we follow very well everything that happens when we're not in the O.R. So, I would ask you to try at least now to answer very specific questions, given that a addressed minister should already know the answer. So, I'm curious, where 100 million dinars are going to be allocated for an extension of the deadline, are they from the budget reserve, are they rebalanced, and if it's rebalanced, will they be downloaded for culture, say, since it's the same budget? Has the government considered how local budgets will find funds to extend the privatisation deadline? Third, I'm curious, what exactly has the Ministry done for all this time, except, you've listed, uh, maintenance, a large number of meetings, to explain to the actors that they're required to comply with the law, because if you've been so inconclusive in the last 11 months, will you succeed in four months and what methods, other than conversations, will you succeed in convincing them? So what are the guarantees that the new deadline will be respected? What will happen to potential shareholders, i.e. free stockholders, if we have in mind that they are already, and that is what Mr Djurisic was talking about, disabled and if they have taken over the EPS actions, and also, what will happen to those who succeed in doing so, and they will not be able to write off their debts and in what way will they be able to run these media houses at all? What will happen to employees in those media houses that will be liquidated after this process or shut down? What will happen to broadcasting in foreign languages, how long will Radio Yugoslavia be shut down? There were also words about capital assessment documents, and one of their colleagues said that they were guilty of not assessing the capital, and they failed to say that those who did so in time for changing the law were also ordered to do it again. Who will cover their expenses, and those people will do everything in time? So these are the questions that we are absolutely looking for answers to. Finally, since you speak so much of reform, I don't know on the basis of which arguments you claim we are not for reforms, and we are for reforms, but for reforms in time, that you respect your own deadlines. So I'm asking you, if you're in such a hurry to European integration, what do you as the Ministry expect to write in the progress report to come out in October? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30886	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30887	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I've been listening to a lot of things today, and I'm just asking those who unfortunately have created a media picture all these years in Serbia, what are you people for? Are you to privatize the media, to get the state out of the media, or are you not up for it? Since the government here is criticizing itself because it will withdraw from the media, and then on the other hand you have another kind of criticism, and what is retreating, so I don't really know anymore, the opposite side of what is their concept? It's especially important for us to hear this because for years back these same media outlets have been destroyed by local self-government, where they have exercised power. Literally destroyed. They were only used for party employment. Unfortunately, we have come to the conclusion that these media have become completely inert and simply cannot survive on the market. So, if our path is directed towards the European Union. Otherwise to say right at the beginning, I wasn't a fan of privatization of the media completely and something like this that we introduced, but it's something we've committed ourselves to for years back, talking about how it's the only right solution, best possible, and then when we came to finalize it, now we're suddenly against it. Well, we can't act like one. Now you're asking private broadcasters to, say, release service information in their media. The program is a product, you own some media, so why would you play something that doesn't bring you profit? If I own the media, I'm interested in profit, only then is it managed and that's some logic elemental. It's okay, there are certain codes that you have to respect, but in those codes, it's those independent bodies that we're hearing about here who are doing great work, so they take care of these very codes, so I'd like to ask them to finally start doing something. It's not the government's fault, it's those independent bodies. Here's what I'm asking them to do every time they spot an irregularity or some kind of shrimp on our program that finely these independent bodies raise their voices and, of course, say what they have. We even have here today a review of the government's introduction of a tax that RTS plans to introduce. What does the government have to do with that tax? What kind of connections? The government is not introducing a tax, introducing a RTS tax, the Serbian Radio Television Management Board and the Vojvodina Radio Television, which they always forget to say, given that the Vojvodina Radio Television is somehow controlled by the province's administration. The government of the Republic of Serbia has nothing to do with that tax. Absolutely some kind of connection, but I guess it's good to start criticizing the government. The question now arises – let's go to the Radio Television of Serbia, so are you for public services or not for public services? If you're for public service, they're funded by citizens. We're asking the state to withdraw from the media. Well, the state can't finance Radio Television Serbia, but the citizens have to finance it, or maybe it's one of them for shutting down Serbian Radio Television, so let them tell us. Choose a concept. Serbia's radio television to survive must have some funds and be financed. Since we don't want to finance from the budget because the state has to withdraw from all the media whether it is, then there's got to be another model. They found a tax model, the law says it has to be up to 500 dinars, and that's that, or vice versa, we want to shut down the Serbian Radio Television. I think it's very bad, the Serbian Radio Television must exist for many reasons, and I hope that their programming content will be far better. What I want to ask you, Mr. Tasovac, is very important, it's so-called commitment of future media owners to software content. You know, that's exactly what I was talking about earlier. It's very difficult for you to commit to a private media owner what he's going to play. A man's looking to make money. It's something that's perfectly natural. You know, I was at a meeting in Skopje right where the Council of Europe, which otherwise has been constantly pushing here to privatise all the media, was just talking about how our media should be citizens' services, etc., and when you ask them – so wait for who's crazy to invest in something like that and be a citizen service because they're losing money on it; then they don't have any answer. Of course, the problem with privatization is because you're just chasing with profit. Is that normal and does anyone like it? Well, I don't like it, but, you know, normally, a man wants to make no one to throw their money away. So you'd like to answer me in what way and to what limit, what is some limit in that obligation of that private media owner to this software content? You know, let's just say we're going to have a situation right now, maybe somebody's going to buy Studio B, how are you going to get a future owner of Studio B to make a commitment, and it's going to be in his best interest and it's going to be profitable and it's going to release information about the city of Belgrade, and it's important for the people of Belgrade to get informed through some service? It would be good if you told us more about it. We can't talk about freedom of the media here, in fact, the opposite side can't talk that much about freedom of the media here, because you know these freedoms in their time took place the following way -- if you're close enough to the then government, then the owners of the marketing houses that hold all the ads in this society will give you an ad, so you'll be able to survive. If you're not close to the media, he could've easily shut himself down. The specially written medium could freely be shut down because, if we didn't lie to the written media, it depended solely on the advertising, it depends little on their sales, so that most of them were extinguished, which were not on the line of the then ruling establishment. It also took place with electronic media and two tycoons in the media space, one later even became president of the party, held a complete advertising space and marketing space in this country. And that's how it was. And don't let them talk about freedom of the media, because that's exactly how they choked the media, which is really embarrassing and it's stupid to hear about it right now. Secondly, while you're talking about some kind of censorship here that exists, I apologize, but we even heard one term from one of our colleagues - opposition television. Excuse me, how can opposition television or position television exist? That's crazy. If we're talking about independent journalism, what kind of black opposition or positional television? I understand that someone has an editorial policy, so it's a little closer to the authorities, someone closer to the opposition, but we can't talk in that category of opposition and positional, given that such a policy should be told across the street, that it's completely out of the media, so I don't see any fear for some local television or local radio station where the opposition is, is it, the current opposition, actually there in those local areas of government where it performs that function, because the market in the future will determine who is listening and who is watching. We've advocated our entire lives since 2000 when you came to power, if you've advocated capitalism, if you've asked for a free market, so here's your free market. Excuse me, whoever wins the market, who has a better program, will be both watched and listened. You asked to watch. Self-government socialism died, it doesn't exist anymore, you stood up for something like that, and that's it. So, of course we're going to support this law, and I have to back up here, Mr. Tasovac, that I may be a bit of a critic, and I'm not that much of a fan of these extensions because you know if we make a commitment once, we have to do it. Okay, I understand the importance of Radio Yugoslavia and TANJUG, of course, are media houses that are very important, but you know, this really has to be the last time. That's right, the market determines everything, excuse me, go to the market and we can't extend the deadlines anymore. We will certainly support this now, of course, but let this be the last time, and I hope, of course, that we will get the media scene far more quality because in the future, the market will absolutely determine everything, not the party staff that were hired in the previous period and who were the main and agreed editors of various media and thus favoured only one option since we hear here that especially for Studio B someone is crying, for a party television, literally a party television that was all the time in DS power in Belgrade. That's it. We will uphold the law and, of course, hope for a much better media picture and a media scene than we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30888	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Tasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30889	Here's a concrete answer to the question about the programming scheme. Since you mentioned Studio B, it will be controlled by REM and the Privatisation Agency. We simply wanted in a way to protect additional media pluralism and that was why. I fully understand simply the legitimate right of the owner, but there are also legal obligations related to media pluralism.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-26-0.u30890	Thank you, Minister. No, there's really no basis, there's no reason. [[Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: How about a replica, short?]] According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda and continue our work on Monday at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
