ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39616	Thank you, Chairman. I have a question for the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, that is, Mr. Vulin. These days, the state should in a decent way mark and celebrate the 100th anniversary of the withdrawal of the Serbian army, the government, the king and the population across Montenegro and Albania. However, unfortunately, this topic that should be, and it is written in gold letters in Serbian history, is not thus experienced by the ministry and Minister Vulin whose head he is, so I ask Minister Vulin the following questions - why does the ministry not plan to mark the 100th anniversary of the withdrawal of the Serbian army, the government, the king and the population across Montenegro and Albania? Is Minister Vulin aware that in the world history of war there is no example of such a sublime sacrifice of a nation that, at the end of the war, brought down three empires, Germany, Austro-Hungarian and Ottoman? Why should Minister Vulin instead of marking such a significant 100-year-old, a significant date for our history that should be on the pedestal of all historical memories, every name, every grave should shine like the sun, because Serbia in the fight for freedom sacrificed all the most valuable and precious things it had then, including Serbian youth, population and future Serbian elite? Instead, Minister Vulin spends his energy and time on the controversial historical personality of Dragutin Dimitrijevic, Apisa, and wants this year to be a sign of the transfer of the bones of Dragutin Dimitrijevic, Apisa, the Alley of the deserved giants, with the personal argument of Minister Vulin, that Apis, imagine, a hero and one of the bright secrets that have been forgotten and suppressed for 100 years, and that he has the feeling that Apis will unite us a little more. Apis certainly has a place in Serbian history, but cannot be declared a hero who should be a role model for young generations, because he organized a Mayan coup in 1903, killed the king and queen, trampled an officer's oath, a modern dictionary many consider him a terrorist. He has been charged with preparing the assassination of regent Alexander First Karadjordjevic. Is it in the opinion that Minister Vulin was wronged Apis for killing only one royal couple and not the other? Why does Minister Vulin change historical facts and claim that the Black Hand organization did not exist, but only the United or Death organization, and that this was the biggest victim in the World War I in fact, Colonel Apis? Also, Minister Vulin feels, pathetically, that we should remember slowly and shyly on the shoulders of the giants we are actually sitting down, and find them a piece of the Serbian country and a piece of the Serbian sky. We have no objection to Dragutin Dimitrijevic's bones being transferred to Serbia, but in the view of historians, it is a very controversial historical figure. And instead of spending our energy this year on the siege of such a significant 100-year-old, who has amazed the whole world, world history, Minister Vulin, probably under the ideological matrix, in an alleged desire to unite us a little bit more, in fact, divides us more and more. Is Minister Vulin aware that other nations had this kind of history and exploits, so that for a whole year it would be a sign of that kind of marking? What truly are the heroes that we all need to remember, that is almost 30% of the population, or over 1.2 million that Serbia lost in World War I. The wounds and epidemics killed 402,000. During the crossing through Albania, 77,455 soldiers were killed or killed, 200,000 people passed, 140,000 remained in the mountains and the impasses of Albania, 1,300 corporals, gobradith, of them 2/3 lost their lives in World War I. At the time, National Assembly President Andra Nikolic said when Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39617	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39618	Here, I'm done. He orders the order, and he loses both sons. And there are a million light examples, which unfortunately Minister Vulin forgot.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39619	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go, Mr. Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39620	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, confirming their anti-fascist commitment to Bosniaks and all the citizens of Sandzak founded the Earth's anti-fascist council of Sandzak or ZAVNOS on 20 November 1943. Proud of our anti-fascist struggle and in memory of that great day today we mark as the day of Sandzak. So I am taking this opportunity to congratulate the citizens on November 20th – Sandzak Day. On the other hand, I will also take advantage of this opportunity to draw attention to the conditions in which the state, i.e. the state summit and institutions live in Sandzak today through several issues. Bosniaks firmly support and advocate Serbia's EU membership, and accordingly, as the basis for today's issues, use exactly the European Commission's latest progress report on Serbia's EU progress. The Sandzak report said, among other things, that the Bosniak community remains under-represented in state institutions and bodies with public powers, and in the first place, in the judiciary, the prosecution and the police in particular. The report also says that the Sandzak region remains one of the most underdeveloped, with a high unemployment rate, with a lack of adequate infrastructure and investment in the region. This isn't what the opposition said. This is what the European Commission said, and we have been warning years ago that this is exactly the obstacle on our European path. With this today, I ask the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, to answer us – what employment measures will be taken to employ Bosniaks in the composition of the police, judiciary and prosecutors in the cities of Sandzak? This message sends Bosniaks a clear message that he does not trust them and that he does not want to trust them to perform responsible positions, responsible functions in the country, unless an individual is in the direct service of a majority party in power. I ask – what will they do about reducing the unemployment in Sandzak, which is over 60%, which is three times more than in the rest of Serbia? When any investment comes to Sandzak, does it matter whether it's domestic or foreign? I am responsibly saying that the roads in Sandzak today are the worst you will find in the country, and that is why I am asking the Ministers of Infrastructure when will the citizens of Sandzak get the same roads as the citizens in the rest of the country? I'm asking what happened to the highway through Sandzak and the railroad to New Market? I also ask the Minister of State Administration and local self-government what will he do about the overindebted New Market City, who will take responsibility for the illegally adopted budgets since 2009, and who will take responsibility for the astronomical and illegal debt of the city of Novi Pazar, which your coalition will leave in the centre of Sandzak? What will the government do about corrupt party inspectors recalibrating citizens and businesses in Sandzak, thus preventing even the slightest hope for the development of the economy? I also ask the question when will the implementation of the return programme and the sustainable survival of the exiled Bosniaks in Priboj continue, which the government has stopped? What will this government do to solve cases of kidnapping of Bosniaks in Strptci, Priboj and the North, and when will the victims be granted the status of civilian war victims? I ask the police minister – when will he finally solve the ferocious killings in Novi Pazar, which have not been enlightened for years, what have we pointed to several times in this Assembly? I ask the Minister of Education – when will Bosniaks at schools in Priboj, Prepolje and Novi Varosha be able to attend school in the Bosnian native language and when will they receive textbooks, like all other children? These are just some of the questions that plague the citizens of Sandzak and which strengthen their sense of double standards and that they are citizens of the second order. That's why I call on the government to change this situation by means of emergency measures in all these areas, so that next year on Sandzak's day, along with a card... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39621	The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go, Mrs. Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39622	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A group of Serbian intellectuals, led by academics Vasilija Krestic, launched an initiative to raise a memorial centre for the 20th century Serbian victims, as many peoples in the world, Jews in Jerusalem, Armenians in Yerevan. The aim of this initiative is to gather all material on the victims of our people, from the Balkan wars to today, to write down all victims of genocide, all killed in wars, in camps and on the doorstep and to raise this memorial on the left bank of Sava. The Serbian memorial should be the initiative that will tear away from forgetting the truth about one of the most suffering people in the 20th century. According to information I have so far, the Belgrade City Assembly has set up one location at the old Fair, but the memorial should be erected for victims of World War II. However, my question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Vukic, are they familiar with this initiative and who is their position on this issue? Also, according to my knowledge so far, the raising of this memorial was supported by the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic and Patriarch Irinej.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39623	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39624	Thank you. I'd have a question for the Prime Minister. These days, a phase in the sale of Telecom was completed, the stage when bids were made and one of the offers, how the public could find out through the media, was the offer of the Apollo Investment Fund along with the Slovenian Telecom. What is my question for the prime minister - will they examine the potential conflict of interest and how it will react, since Apollo is the strategic partner of the Lazard company since 2008. In a number of jobs, Lazard advised Apollo during their acquisitions in Europe, and Lazard, as we know, was designated by the government for advisors at the sale of Telecom. The question arises – is the company "Lazard" in conflict of interest? She will now process these offers and make a proposal to the government on what offer she may eventually accept. In a situation where Lazard makes an assessment of offers on the one hand, and on the other hand advises one of the customers, it is quite logical to ask the question of conflict of interest and will the state of Serbia in this business be damaged because of this situation? The second question is for the Minister of Culture. This year when he explained the changes and additions of media laws here, when he asked whether the media register would be drawn up within the deadline, he said - yes, don't worry. The deadline has expired, or already expired on 14 August of this year, more than three months ago. Until today's media register publicly, as intended by law, does not exist. If you go to the Agency for Business Registers and part of the Media Register, you will see an incomplete Media Register that does not have all the data, there are no data on the ownership of the media, there are no data on many other things, which are legally mandatory and which have to be made available to the public since 14 August this year at the latest. The minister and his secretary of state here assured us that it would be done when they were in the Assembly in July. Until today, that's not what happened. I'm asking the minister when it's going to happen. I demand that he resign because his failure, one of the many unsuccessful things he has done, has caused the European Commission to make clear in the report on Serbia's progress in the media work that there is no progress, that the adopted laws are not applied. This is the best example of how adopted laws and what has been declared here as government policy, in this particular case the policy of the Minister of Culture and Information, is not being implemented. I can't understand what the problem is that after more than a year and three months, it means 15 months as the Media Act is passed, you can't make a register with all those things that the law regulates. That deadline has been more than a year since the law was passed, three months have passed since that deadline, the register is gone. I'm asking the minister for an answer when he'll do it? Along with that answer, I expect his resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39625	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39626	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I have a parliamentary question for the health minister, Mr Zlatibor Loncar, and it concerns the Institute of Gerontology and Paliatical Care in Nis. Before explaining this question, I would like to point out a very positive example of how initiatives and proposals referred to through parliamentary offices are realised in practice. In fact, a while ago, I asked a parliamentary question about passing expert exams to license teachers to be implemented in Nis. On 17.11.2015, in Nis, organized by the Regional Centre for Education and Director of the Centre Daniele Markovic, a meeting was held at which the Minister of Education, Mayor of the City of Nothing, the Rector of the University of Nis University, the Rectors, Deans of the Faculty of Education, Directors of elementary and secondary schools, and other officials and has unanimously supported the initiative to license teachers in Nis. The minister agreed with the initiative, and it is likely that from 2016 on, teachers from the southeast and central Serbia will be able to pass this exam in Nis. I would like the other ministers to hear the voice of the local self-government, so in that spirit I will ask a parliamentary question. On the basis of Articles 46 and 48. Health care law, as well as Article 14. Regulation on the plan of the network of health institutions, Article 4. Law on public services and Article 37 The Statute of the City of Nis, the City of Niš, made a motion for a decision, and the Assembly of the City of Nis adopted a Decision establishing the Institute of Gerontology and Paliatical Care in Nis. Since April 2012, when the City Council made a proposal and the Niš City Assembly made a decision to set up a Gerontology Institute, nothing has been done to date for the health care of the elderly in the field of general medicine, rehabilitation, palitative care and care in home conditions. After all the solutions and decisions of the City Assembly, the ministry was asked to make a staff plan at the beginning of 2012, on the basis of which they could be recognised or negotiated by the ministry. The point of setting up an institution is, in addition to taking care of the old and the sick, and dispensing the home of health, i.e. the acquisition of non-contracted workers who are the liquids of previous directors. On the basis of the Regulation on the plan of the health care system, the Institute for Health Care of Students, the Institute for Medical Safety, the Institute for Emergency Medical Assistance, the Office for Dentology, the Institute for Pulmonary Diseases, tuberculosis, the Institute for Skin and Veneric Diseases, were established in Nis. It's the only thing that hasn't been established for gerontology and paliatical care. To remind ourselves once again, the Gerontology Institute is conducting the health care of old people from the field of general medicine, rehabilitation, paliatical care and care in home conditions. The Department of Gerontology may perform a specialist-consultative activity in the field of medicine and psychiatry. A question for the Minister of Health, Mr. Zdravko Loncara - is there anything at all to do with the establishment of a human resources plan at the request of the Assembly of the City of Nis? Will the old City of Nis, which accounts for nearly one third of the population in Nis, be able to solve their health needs in the Gerontology Office, because in these conditions, the health network in Nis City will represent citizens of the second order? What does the City of Nis need to do to put the Gerontology and Paliatical Care Office in place? The establishment of the institute would only implement one part of the National Aging Strategy, brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. To remind Serbia is one of five countries, after Italy, Germany, Bulgaria and Sweden, the oldest nations in Europe. Therefore, we as responsible people must also think in this segment and finally allow the establishment of a Gerontology Institute in Nis and thus allow older ones to receive adequate healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39627	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39628	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to point out for a simple reason why on 16 November 2015 we asked the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, Ms Zorana Mihajlovic, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure – did the said ministry, as a second-degree body, enroll in the ownership of the Belgrade agricultural corporation, a.d., the agricultural land owned by the Belgrade Agricultural Corporation, on which, more specifically, the PKK had the right to use so far? What we're very interested in is what is the area of that land. We have information that it's 19,000 acres that are rapidly enrolled in the ownership of the PKK, which goes in the next few weeks for a devastating privatisation. At what time intervals did the entry of this land take place? Based on whose request is 19,000 hectares of PKB owned as well? Why don't we agree on this? Because we think, under the Agricultural Land Act, it's impossible to alienate agricultural land. In this way, the law is bypassed and whoever purchases the PKK tomorrow will automatically own agricultural land. We think it is very dangerous, for the simple reason that the PKK today participates in 50% milk production in the market for Serbia, BiH, Macedonia and Montenegro. The state PKK should be an instrument for state agricultural policy, not for sale. We say why because we got a decision to sell the PKK, and the starting price is 51 per cent of the established market price. No one's ever answered us why it's like that. If privatisation fails in the first round, the second round further lowers the price to 30% of the established market price. We ask the question – why is it in someone's interest for the PKK to be sold, when it comes to the largest food producer, healthy and cheap food in Serbia? What happens tomorrow when the private who buys the PKK shuts down just one of the production branches? What would happen, for example? In 1999, during the bombing, the PKK was in private hands? Just imagine a situation where the private owner at that point shuts down the entire production and moves it to another country. Serbia would not have cheap and healthy food. Will the PKK experience the fate of the 2007 PIC Vienna? It is also a question for Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, since in that government she was one of those who advocated this kind of sale. We all know how PIC Beccey ended, and we all know how bad privatisation affected workers losing their jobs and leaving that part of Serbia without food production. The attempt to privatise the PKK is in fact an attempt to alienate state land for a very small amount of money. It's not a brand that sells, which is also very strange. Only property is sold. Part of the state land, which now the ministry of Ms. Zorana Mihajlovic, as a second-degree body, requires a catastra to register with the PKK, will tomorrow become the property of a private firm. What has failed to be done on Zlatibor and what the cadastre has rejected in Belgrade, what the catastre refused on Zlatibor, again happens that the second-degree body is ordering the cataster to enter the property of the property belonging to the Republic of Serbia, in this case the City of Belgrade. The state cannot obligate a private owner the next day to produce certain amounts of food or certain quantities of milk, and for this reason we believe that this is also a murky business and a bad privatisation, which Belgrade Mayor Sinisa Mali is watching and is not trying to do anything, and Zorana Mihajlovic for the second time... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39629	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Let me finish the sentence. Time's up. You must follow the time and adapt to your time. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Slobodan Gvozdenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39630	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister, my questions today have been addressed to the justice minister, Mr Selakovic. My first question is this - since it's day 7. 04. In 2015, officials of the Valjevo Police Administration handed over to the Public Higher Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade criminal charges against the director of the company "Ingrap Omni" Theodosija Krstic against Zoran Jakovljevic and five others for the serious crimes of abuse of the position and acts of counterfeiting the official document and five other persons whose names I will not name here. I'm interested in having the minister of justice answer me what's going on with that criminal report, whether it's being handled, and at what stage is the action, or where have the investigative actions arrived? The company "Ingrap Omni" has been in Valjevo for 10 years, during the Democratic Party's rule, and you guess that this second-leaded former Mayor of Valjev, otherwise a member of the Democratic Party, worked for 10 years with the Valjev direct, with Valjev, the company "Ingrap Omni" worked over 90% of the job. The amount listed in this criminal report, which was damaged by the city of Valjevo's budget and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is about 50 million. I would like the minister of justice to answer my question – at what stage is this procedure, has the criminal application been dismissed or the investigative and investigative actions by the D.A.'s office been carried out? I'm not going to talk here right now, which is why the more public prosecutor's office in Valjev was excluded. Besides, the minister can easily check it out. But I would like that answer to my question to arrive as soon as possible. My second question was also addressed to the Minister of Justice, which refers to the fact that Nenad Marinkovic was appointed to the Deputy Public Prosecutor in Valjevo by the decision of the State Council of the Prosecutors of 2014, contrary to the Law on Public Prosecutors, i.e. without a public competition, and how long will this unlawful appointment take place, since the lawyers in the Valjev district knew that he was the same in 2009 in Valjevo as the primary public prosecutor, although he did not have a full three-year working experience in the judiciary or in the public prosecutor's office? In this regard, one conclusion is made – that the competent authorities of the Ministry of Justice, when electing and placing this man on the aforementioned functions, did not take into account the demand or expertise, experience and dignity, which is unfortunately confirmed and confirmed, if you only remember that rough rape on Ub, July or August of the month, where the minor, where he had failures in work and conduct without determining the detainees. Thank you, and I expect answers from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39631	Thank you. Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of the National MP Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the first item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LAW OF THE PROGRAMME. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, along with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Under the name of the amendment law in the same text, the MPs together Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and together Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39632	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted this amendment because we believe that the different name of this law would better paint the problem that is being solved and the goal that is to be achieved. It is our proposal not to legalize or legalize, but to be – Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. In this way, an epithet of law, or legalization of something that is illegal, is taken away. We agree that this is a problem that we have to solve and that it is very important for Serbia to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39633	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39634	Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable fellow MPs, respected minister with associates, I think it is very important to open this topic at the beginning, and how have you come to the conclusion that this term used in the title of this law – on the law of objects, is really correct? Our proposal here implies that in the next period, through a series of procedures that would be applied here, it actually opens up the topic and the question of whether this bill that you have given here is really applicable, is it better perhaps a term – the law on dealing with illegally built objects? We have also set an example for the buildings here, because we are in a series of members, and in particular in Article 1 and Article 3, we have seen a kind of tampering and inconsistencies, the hour you mention buildings, the hour you mention objects. In the application of the law, given that a very small number of construction inspectors should act under this law because of all inconclusion and ambiguity, we believe that there will also be misreads, bad decisions on the ground and that citizens will be damaged. You were here at the beginning to say that this is a job that will be completed in a year. Our termology and proposal in some way opens up the possibility that the amendments we have proposed, which concern the conduct of construction inspection and competent authorities, in the application of this law in the next two years, be left as a possible space. We deeply believe that this law will not be implemented and implemented in the next year and we deeply believe that this formulation that we have offered is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39635	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39636	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I call on the amendment not to be accepted. Specifically and exclusively on the subject of the proposal, the question of some inconsistencies is absolutely not on the agenda, and there is no such question here. There is no inconsistencies regarding the use of the term, we are talking about the term – legislation. This word is used in the complete bill of law in the form in which it arrived in the National Assembly. I urge the promoter to note that in his own reasons, in his amendments two, eight, ten, etc., he uses this exact term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39637	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39638	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, just what the previous speaker said isn't true. In an explanation – the amendment is not accepted because the law with the same name is adopted and is applied in the Republic of Croatia. Someone made a mistake, Mr. Becic, putting these arguments together. We claim that your bill is prescribed from Croatian legislation. Because what does law enforcement mean, if the Minister can explain it to me? What does that mean in our language? We offered a law on dealing with illegally built buildings. Point, it is in the spirit of the Serbian language, and you have made it clear to us that it is not good because such a law exists in Croatia, as we have suggested. No, you are wrong, as you have suggested there is in Croatia and your proposal, excuse me, is called the law in the spirit of the Croatian, not in the spirit of the Serbian language. And, for that reason, we have proposed this amendment and there has been a confusion, obviously someone who wrote this argument just to avoid accepting the amendment of the MPs of the DS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39639	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39640	I'm always surprised when I hear, now after so many years of DS telling us how to carry out the legal process, and for ten years it's allowed to build, practically, almost a million and a half illegally built objects. It's a big surprise to me. Of course, I'm very pleased if you've finally started to think about how this problem can be solved. For your information, this government will solve this problem, the problem that you have created, the problem of those who have practically been rich in giving building permits in five, seven and ten years or not giving them at all the problem that you have produced, which is that today we are discussing in this Assembly a million and a half illegally built objects instead of doing some other things, some other laws we are dealing with the screwups of the previous years of your government. This law was made primarily for ordinary citizens. This law will help any ordinary citizen who tried and tried to build and work in a legal way, and he couldn't do it exactly because of everything you did in the previous period. It will therefore help the authorities legalize the house in Kaludierica, Hope to legalize, or to carve up their house in another city. It will help truly ordinary citizens of Serbia. In the end, maybe this isn't all bad how you DS behave, because it's a sign of how much you care or don't care about ordinary citizens. I think you've shown it exactly with what you're saying right now, and especially with what you've been doing for the past ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39641	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39642	Replica. Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, he has mentioned here for the second time that the problem of illegal construction has arisen during the last ten years which is completely contrary to the text of the arguments they have given themselves under this law. I'll read it. It says – the problem of illegal construction exists a few decades ago but has particularly escalated in the 1990s when mass illegal construction is recorded, etc. The second thing, what I pointed out and in the principle debate, the SNS has been in power for four years. For four years you had time to start solving this problem, in 2013, you also passed a law concerning legalization, no movement was made. Why should we believe that this will be the case now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39643	Thank you. The word is made by Master Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39644	Dear Minister, the very fact that this bill, which has fewer than 50 members, has almost a hundred amendments, speaks of the fact that MPs have taken this proposal very seriously, and the DS has made over 30 amendments to this proposal, and I think it is unacceptable for you to comment on our work and on our approach to proposing this law, or amendment. So from the first moment we wanted to tell you that our contribution is precisely to help you fix this bad bill in some way through the amendments. The terminology we have proposed is in the spirit of the Serbian language, and it is not only about the proposal for terminology but about the essence that later applies to the law. So your law that you have proposed is contrary to practice, to real life. Articles 1 and 3 are in complete contrast, not to mention how many members later in the law have a complete opposite of each other. We have earlier suggested that you adopt a set of laws on legalisation, and on public property, on state diameter and cataster, to adopt laws and on conversion, etc., as a set of laws that will help solve problems in this area. If we go deeper into the essence of the laws you've passed in the previous period, so they're just opposite to each other and you'll see in practice that what you've proposed today won't be able to apply in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39645	Thank you. Replica, Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39646	First, it's not true that we've been in power for four years, but let's see how many years you've been in power. So Pajtic has been in power for 16 years, the DS, so together with Belgrade, 20 years. Everything you've done, you've done wrong. You left the country in bankruptcy. If you could solve what we're talking about today, we wouldn't be talking about it. A million and a half illegally built objects, 800,000 came into existence in 2000 since the DS came to power with clear intent and you didn't answer me, last time I asked you when we talked about this law in principle. Excuse me, who took the money for not giving building permits or for many waiting for building permits for five, six and seven years? Why didn't you arrest those who were building illegally? And today you're explaining to us that this law is not good. You don't have to trust us from the DS, believe us Serbian citizens, all those ordinary people who have apartments and houses believe that we will solve this problem as we have solved other problems. But you at least have the right to talk about who's as powerful as you are in power. We solve problems, you create them. It would be much better if we did other things, not to solve the screw-ups, the terrible things we left behind, especially when we're talking about the construction mob. You ask – where did the construction mafia come from? Well, ask your colleagues from your MP club. Well, ask your MPs who moved the pastures of the first row to the building land and built buildings, and ask people where the construction mafia came from, because this construction mafia didn't come from the SNS, it was created by the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39647	Thank you. The word is Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39648	I'm going back to the reasoning of the law that you brought yourself under this law. So, the problem of illegal construction has arisen, especially in the 1990s, when mass illegal construction is recorded, which has been caused by a large inflow of the population with the war on affected areas. The lack of any kind of control over illegal construction as well as the lack of planning documentation that would allow legal construction. Is this the explanation you filed under that law? Therefore, do not talk about the fact that most of the part and the problem of illegal construction occurred during the time of the governments in which the party's domination was DS. You are four years in power, i.e. in March 2016 you will be four years in power, and having no prime minister during the first two years does not mean that you did not have a dominant role and that you did not have a dominant influence on the work of this government. So four years or three and a half more precisely, it took you to start solving this problem in your opinion seriously. Second, as far as this law is concerned. We have also said clearly in this debate, we are for legalising those objects, for legalising those apartments and houses that serve for the housing of people who do not have other real estate for the apartment, similar to that of the apartment, and for them we think it is justified that they have the most favourable conditions, but when we were solving the issue of legalization of illegal construction, we did not provide for uneven, unequal rules for investors. This is a discriminatory law against all those investors who have worked according to the law in the past five, ten or 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39649	Thank you. The word is made by Master Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39650	Dear Minister, I expected today's debate to be in this way and open and that's how it's going to be. So we're talking about an amendment to a concrete proposal that we've been wanting to fix bad law, and you're talking about the past all the time. We're trying to say something that's specifically related to every amendment, and you're going back to the past. If what you're saying is a little bit better analyzed then we have to go back to your statement a few months ago when the Space Planning Act was adopted here and when you said that 19 thousand apartments and properties were sold in Serbia in 2009 and 2010, and that after your big change and large authorities, that is, during your great government in 2013, 672 apartments and facilities were sold in the course of that year in Serbia's territory. Where, then, that you opened your options and perspectives after 2012, you issued permits, and before that there was no such thing. Where did you help the construction industry, and before that, no one did anything, and that's why all the time in the public and here in the Assembly, you're replacing the thesis and manipulating information. It's not true that the problem has arisen in the past, I don't know, ten years. The problem of illegal construction came most during the 1990s, when people saw that they had to manage for themselves and when they built buildings for their dwellings that did not end until today. Here we want through many amendments to point out that even though you may have thought about these people you did not well predict the procedure that these people who live today in unfinished houses in 50, 60 or 100 square meters will continue to legalize their facilities. You have not answered the fundamental question - is this law that you propose on legislation at the same time and acceptance and confirmation that people who receive papers and a solution to the law actually get and use permission for their facilities and in a number of members of the law did not predict how these problems are solved? That's what we need to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39651	Thank you. Replica, Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39652	First MEP to inform you of the law that this parliament adopted, against which you were also against, which is a law called the Law on Planning and Construction, not as you called it the Law on Spatial Planning. Of course, you were against that law. The law has solved the problem of issuing building permits. That law was the base and the basis for today's discussion of this problem and of solving this problem. The law has resolved the question that building permits are obtained in less than a month. We have to go back in time because in the past building permits were given on average in 250 days. It was not again done by the government of the Serbian Progressive Party, but by the government of the Democratic Party, and under all previous laws, people waited seven years to get to the building permit and were therefore very often built illegally. So we have to go back to the past, because that past that you left us, that vast number of illegally built objects, and of course call in some way the legally built objects of your party friends, we are now solving through the Law of Law. The law on the laws of ordinary people, citizens of Serbia, who were forced to go from counter to counter and wait for building permits and all their conditions and could not get permits, will be able to curtail this law and that is the most important. When you look at the past, we have to look at it to solve in the present.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39653	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39654	I think we should finish this amendment, but... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39655	You need to re-apply. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39656	So I think all the time in this Parliament and in the public you're making one wrong play and one wrong picture of your activities, of your successes. What you're talking about is more and more like that movie "Underground", which we had a chance to watch 10, 12 years ago and wonder how that is possible. So you know well that the procedure you proposed in the Law on Planning and Construction has been accelerated only three days compared to what was the bill you were changing. That's what we talked about, this law today we're going to talk about because we don't have enough time to stop at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39657	Thank you. Replica, Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39658	We need to talk about successes, because this government has successes. Just to remind you, yes, it is, you issued a building permit for 300 days on average. That's what the World Bank says, the International Financial Organisation on the Dunning Business List, the world's dumming business list because of your unhappiness, and because of your corruption, we were at the bottom of the list. Yes, in a year we managed to pass the law, implement the law and increase Serbia's social gross product. Yes, these are the successes of this government and we should boast of it because it is true, not because this government only says so, but because international financial institutions also say so. You should be glad, because you are also citizens and citizens of this country. You should be glad and happy when the social product is growing and things are getting better, unfortunately, because of everything you've been doing. The law on law enforcement is a hoax of your previous governments, and it's serious, which someone, meaning, previous laws, where someone has made serious money, where some serious crime has been conducted, in which it has really only been done solely for the benefit of politicians from your party. That's true. You have an MP who's an example for you, and we can talk about someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39659	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the city: I answer the word. You don't have time. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I have time. ) Under the name of the Bill of Law, the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. You have no right. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39660	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Deputy Prime Minister, has tabled six amendments to the Bill on Law on Objects to correct a very bad law. The position of the PRECRET Movement is that it is necessary to complete the legalisation process of those housing facilities and which are the only living facility for those families. The procedure was to be completed in the previous four years. I was discussing when you were passing previous amendments and additions to the law, and I said you wouldn't realize legalization, so I was right. I sign every word I said back then. So, four years from now, you haven't been able to carry out the legalization procedure. The PRECRET movement has pointed out through its amendments to failures, serious failures in this Law on Legalization, and the very name of the law. I'd say with this amendment, I was chasing a fox, the truth of a dangerous fox, and I drove out a wolf, a very dangerous wolf. So, with this amendment, I proposed that the name of the law be changed and that instead of "Law on Law on Law on Objects" the name of this law should be "Law on Legalisation of Objects". By chasing a dangerous fox, I'll use my five minutes, I've made sure that the law in continental law, which includes our country's basic source of law. When you say the basic source of law, it means that all legal acts come from the law. This law cloudes the source's right to say that something is legal, so it's always possible to use analogy, something that's illegal to turn into legal. I'll make a parallel with Anglo-Saxon law. Imagine someone who would have made a decision in the UK if a precedent from 70 years ago challenged in a way that said that the precedent was no longer a precedent, but something new was being applied. That day, the entire legal system would fall across the entire Anglo-Saxon world. This is how you destroy our legal system. But not only that, I said I drove the wolf out. You with this law, gentlemen of the government, gentlemen of the Serbian Progressive Party do not legalize objects. This is a big con. It is clearly seen from your argument which states, I quote – The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the term "legalisation" is used in all previous laws and means the subsequent issue of a building and use permit, while the "legislation" by its content differs significantly from legalisation, because the procedure does not subsequently quote once again – building and use permits, but a solution that contains a minimum technical, geodetic and says – and property elements for the registration of property rights is made. Well, this is the law of Velya, where you enroll objects to charge taxes. You're passing this law to sign your property. So, the object after this law has been passed remains illegal. No valid permit, no building permit, you're only enrolling property rights. That's clearly what you're saying here. It was very controversial when we saw a change in the name of the law, but now it's quite clear that you actually want to enter objects on one side, to enter property rights on these facilities to charge taxes, and on the other hand, you intend to legalize, as you say, the objects of your party friends, the President of the Republic, his sons, various SNS officials, etc. There are as many examples as you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39661	Mr. Veselinović, I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39662	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39663	You're talking about the amendment you submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39664	Given the fact that you say every word of mine against the government and when I tell the truth, you sort of solve it by turning off my microphone. So, I'm absolutely law-abiding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39665	If you're not talking about your amendment, I'm gonna have to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39666	So the Turnover Movement feels that this law is urgently to be withdrawn from the procedure right now. He is deeply opposed to the Constitution, against the legal order, against the equality of citizens, against the legal system that is based on laws, because I repeat, with us the law is a fundamental source of law. You've made a few mistakes. My colleagues pointed out a few things that didn't matter. However, this is about the fact that these facilities will not be legal by passing this law. They will only be entered with the right of property. They won't even have a building permit. I'm asking you, will he have a building permit? Just give me that answer. No, it says clearly in the explanation here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39667	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39668	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I appreciate the legal knowledge, i.e. the knowledge of the legal sciences of the promoter of this amendment, but simply, what we just heard simply does not correspond to the truth and it is not so at all. I would suggest we don't accept this amendment. So, I will repeat the amendment to the law proposal, regardless of what the proposer of this amendment has talked about the law itself and a whole series of lies or half-truths. What I find problematic or syptomatic is the explanation that he provided us when proposing this amendment, where the term of law makes legal misunderstandings and creates an opportunity for abuse, etc. So, I don't know what kind of confusion creates this title, the bill on the law of law of objects, especially if we consider the opinion of the Government that we have received, where it's said, where it's clear that there is a fundamental difference between the concept of legalisation and legislation in the content of the act being brought, but also in the way of conducting the procedure that precedes the adoption of a solution. So, I have no doubt that the proposer of this amendment has read the explanation, but continues to insist on these doubts. So here's the thing completely clear and here everything is very understandable. Although I believe that the proposer of this amendment often comes into doubt, often in doubt or in dilemmas. The result of his dilemmas and concerns is that he often changes his mind, that he often changes parties. He first found himself in one doubt when he realized that he had been on the wrong page for years, and then he changed that party, and then he joined another party, and then he quickly found himself in a new doubt, and then he got out of the party, and he founded one movement and brought us all here into doubt whether it was a movement or a group of citizens or a association of citizens or a political party. So, from these doubts of his, we suffer the consequences of all of us. I'd only go back to the name of the bill. Once again, I will point out that we have had several times so far, I think five times, at a time when the authorities were doing his parties, all in which he was, the name – legalization of the facilities, the Law on Legalization. We didn't celebrate with that name of the law. The responsibility for that is, of course, on them. Here, this time we have a title that says – Law on the Law of Objects, so I guess this time we'll have better luck and end everything that you haven't finished. I suggest we reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39669	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39670	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm surprised by the discussion of this reversed smuggling, the leaders of the association. It seems that all of us were in error to register political parties for not registering the association of citizens, so with three persons necessary for the registration of the association played political parties here and thus avoided the Anti-Corruption Agency and various types of control, under whose supervision political parties. Someone who chases a dangerous fox must be tested for rabies. Fox and rage, that's very close.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39671	You must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39672	I didn't say I was chasing a fox, I'm sorry. In the light of the amendments, the amendment promoter literally said he was chasing the fox, and he chased the wolf out. Anyone who chases a fox risks getting rabies. It's a universal term. But as far as the law goes, when members of the party of the former regime, in their reasoning, talk about legislation, about laws, it's just touching. In their day the laws were mainly ordered by various speculators, cheaters, etc., they wrote laws and amendments, and when they talk about the law and when they talk about the law of objects and legalization, they came to me to cry, and here's why. Most likely when he was chasing a fox and chasing a wolf, this one turned, that he was referring to this business-building facility in India, which was built in 2007. (The National MP Marijan Risticevic shows photos. But then he was a kid, he wasn't a minor. I mean, that former regime party wasn't adult or he wasn't a minor, so he forgot this case. Thirty to forty thousand square metres, followed by former regime party vice president Goran Jesic. All the way down here on the top floor, he's got a 250 m2 penthouse. Em's facility was illegal, and their neighbor was buried because there wasn't enough pay, so they attached his pay. I kind of saved his neighbor's crying. They built this facility illegally, and I paid the price. Afterwards, I filed a criminal report. They replaced me for a few months in the water management building without any quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39673	You must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39674	The one who chased the fox, most likely thought of these objects as being rushed, an illegal facility in India from 30,000 to 40,000 square feet in the city center, no reaction from the prosecution, no reaction from the republican authorities, but my God. The vice president of the former regime can do anything. But where was the president? Object number two. The factory for recycling lead batteries in 2007, the facility was built illegally. Someone was chasing a fox, someone was chasing a wolf, and someone was building objects on a waterway to recycle lead. In order to obtain the ecological consent or as it is called, the environmental impact, etc., they deliberately missed the number of parcels in the application, and later by technical correction they tried to obtain a building permit for this, because they did not, they built it without a construction permit, on a waterway, and by regional means, whose borders they deleted so that they could at all legalize this facility later. Do you know who opened that facility? The current president, at the time, I don't know what was in the former regime's party, may have been a minor, but he looks like the current president of the former regime, and there's also a vice president and they're very happy as they illegally open an illegally built facility on waterway. (The National MP Marijan Risticevic shows the photograph. ) So, because of this, over time, because of the waste water, the Indjiji are going into a splinter canal, above the water supply, above the wells, the true genocide threatens. So, if there's any haiarium, we're gonna be in a big problem. When someone chases a fox, they necessarily rush a wolf. As my previous speakers have said, I think the law should be changed, as different laws on legalization change, in order to be good for all people, and not just for individuals, as it was in the time of their rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39675	Thank you. Mr. Jovan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. (Nataša Vučković, from the city: According to Business. ) Mrs. Vuchkovic, he called before you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39676	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of article 107 in item 2 which speaks of the inadmissible use of offensive expressions and how, Mr. Chairman,... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Penthaus. What? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Penthaus. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39677	Please, Mr. Markovic, continue. Please allow Mr. Markovic to complete the exhibition. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: They must not use the expressions Jesic, Pajtic, penthaus. Go on, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39678	How am I supposed to proceed when I get it? (National MP Balsa Bozovic throws out of town. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39679	Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away. Please, MPs, don't throw it away, let Mr. Markovic continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39680	Mr. Chairman, I have the impression that, as time goes by and as you sit in that chair for longer, it is increasingly difficult for you to explain the arguments and attitudes that we have on various issues. So, you, while the previous speaker is very insultingly talking about the MP sitting here calling him a smuggler, instead of reacting, you're so very kindly laughing and approving what he's saying. Now with surprise you look at me, what I'm actually talking about, and did you understand what he was talking about or is so pleasant to you while he's talking like that, I can't quite conclude. Instead of warning him, you give him, through that kind of laughter, support that he continues in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39681	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. As you read the amendment a little more carefully, this amendment is called the law – the bill on legalisation. I'm sorry that this amendment can be widely talked about all the bad things illegal construction. When Mr. Risticevic used some words, I warned him, and now I take two minutes away from you, because you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the MP Natasa Vučković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I said... You have abused the Rules of Procedure, used it for replication, and I have taken two minutes away from you. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Not true. Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away, I'll warn you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: He mentioned smugglers. I warned him at that moment. Here you are, Mrs. Vuchkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: he said he was a smuggler. ) Mr. Markovic, I will have to warn you if you do not allow the session to continue. Mr. Markovic, I give you a warning. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: For what? Because you do not allow Mrs. Vuchkovic to speak. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I said... Mr. Markovic, I'm taking two minutes from you again. I'd rather say that than give another warning, then I'd have to turn it off from the session. Mr. Markovic, will you sit down so Mrs. Vukkovic can explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mrs. Vuchkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39682	Art. 108th and 109th. Rules of Procedure. First of all, you did not warn the previous speaker when he spoke offensively about the MPs, thereby jeopardising Parliament's dignity. So you're taking care of the order at the session. On the other hand, you injured Article 109 by giving a completely unfounded reminder to MP Markovic, because he reacted to the breach of the Rules of Procedure and to the collapse of dignity and reputation of parliament. There's really no reason to have a session like this. We are talking about amendments and we are trying to respect the arguments, to make our arguments and to present this debate and to present this Parliament politely to the citizens of Serbia. There's really no reason to violate business regulations like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39683	This is Article 103, but not Article 109. Mrs. Vukkovic, I did not warn Mr. Markovic because he abused the Rules of Procedure, but I took two minutes away from him. I gave him a warning for why he wouldn't let you speak when I gave you the word he was still speaking from the scene, he wouldn't allow the session to take classes, he wouldn't let you explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and for that reason he got a warning. Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text... (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39684	I can't say the Honorable Chairman anymore, because what you've done in the past few minutes is outrageous, and I don't think it's much like this House or you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39685	Mr. Markovic, if you'd like to explain, you've been given the word for the amendment you submitted. It is not appropriate for you to not allow your colleague Natashi Vukkovic to speak, so if you are talking about misbehaving in the Great Hall of the National Assembly, first give criticism to yourself, so you can tell the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39686	If you're taking my word for it, I have to say it that way. Believe me, I have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39687	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39688	So, as far as Article 1 of this law is concerned, I think an oversight has been made, a respected minister, and you have not adequately understood our message sent here through this amendment. We wanted you to sort of comply with Article 3. Thus, in the first position of Article 1, it is said that this law regulates the conditions and procedures, etc., etc. for legalizing parts of objects. Since you also describe building law in a similar way in Article 3, we felt it was good that there was one and the other termology in these articles so that we would not come to a problem later on in the application of this law. In Article 1(2), the procedure is specified how the auxiliary facilities will be legalised, and Articles 3 and 3 describe in more detail the parts of the buildings that will be legalised in some way and in some procedure and procedures, as you suggest. So if you wouldn't accept this, and you didn't accept this amendment, then we're in trouble that all these people, who have unfinished buildings including buildings and auxiliary facilities, in this procedure, won't be able to apply these members that you're talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39689	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment. Are you going to use five minutes or just two minutes? Just two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39690	With the same arguments, as counterpart Markovic said, I do not think the rejection of this amendment leads to an improvement in the law. In the principle debate, I was saying that the law is going in the right direction, that this is a big problem that needs to be solved, that this is a problem whose solution will be to the benefit of a large number of Serbian citizens, we can say a solution for the whole society, but the relationship to the amendments that have been given and the amendment to this article clearly states that this was not the intention, but that this is another pre-election story. I'm sorry it's like that. It would have been so much better if my first impression had been true. Arrogacy in the argument that is present here, even here in the debate, about auctioning when, how many illegal objects are contained, is a completely wrong argument that a million and a half illegal objects have been built in the last 10 years. If that were the case, it would be the most successful part of Serbia's history, if a million and a half buildings were built in 10 years. Of course that's not true. Therefore, illegal construction has long been present, for decades, I said, after that Intubulation Act. Many authorities took their share of responsibility throughout the process. This was an opportunity to put an end to this process, but this relationship is not going to do it, and I have to withdraw my position that we will support this law, because obviously there are no good intentions here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39691	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39692	Some information. The illegal construction was started in the '90s, but the boom started right after 2000, so over 800,000 illegal buildings were built in Serbia after 2000. Let's remind ourselves first of all, there was DS and all those who today are very opposed to this law. One of the DS MPs now says – you did not want to listen to us and see our messages. No, I understood very well the message DS, that she wanted to solve her problem, that is, the problem of illegal construction she would have done in the past ten years. On the contrary, the DS wanted and left to build illegally, and when built illegally, there is neither a taxi, nor a contribution, nothing in the state budget, but there is probably a lot of taxis and contributions in some other budgets, private pockets, etc. That's what's been going on for almost 15 years, or less 13. To repeat, 800,000 buildings have been built since 2000 and on here, illegally built buildings. Therefore, those who want to support this law, I repeat this law should allow citizens to finally solve their problem, to allow them to get right over their facilities, to allow them to leave their buildings, buildings, apartments to their children, to give them a normal and orderly life. That's what this law does.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39693	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Vučković, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39694	I really can't understand when the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister are talking about when the problem of illegal construction has arisen and then I ask if this is the explanation they gave under this law or not? The explanation you sent us says – the problem has arisen in the '90s. Who was in power in Serbia then? Why continue the problem of illegal construction? Not exactly in the 1990s, large settlements were built in the 1970s around Belgrade, etc. Why did the biggest problem arise in the 1990s, because of whose policy, who led a policy that made so many people unhappy and so many refugees in Serbia in the 1990s and early 2000s? That's the main question, don't talk about whether DS could solve it. Of course she couldn't solve the question by giving every investor a free billing and legalization, what you're proposing to this. This law will create a new class of rich people, as all those investors who have illegally built market facilities, who could not under the previous laws free of charge, as you are now predicting to get legalisation. Now they're going to get a huge fortune, they're going to legalize their illegally raised market facilities, for sale, and that's what we stand up against when we're talking against this law, and we're not going to stand up against the law because people who needed to solve their living issue are going to build some houses of 50, 60 or 100 square meters in which they live, and that's the only real estate they own. That's the key question here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39695	The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39696	Just to clarify, yes, the explanation says that it was in the '90s, and to explain that the boom was created since 2000 and to repeat once again, since DS was in power. The question of wealth and poverty is a question for you. In my opinion, you first need to think about it and stand up against those you made rich within your ranks. The issue of wealth and poverty does not resolve the Law of Law. That's what tax laws do, some other laws. We'll settle that too, I expect you to vote for, say, the law on the origin of the property, which will surely be found here in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39697	The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39698	Dear Vice President, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the People, we will return to the amendments, I don't think there's any need to conduct such a heated debate. I have to say, I'm a little shocked by the proposal for this amendment, as well as by the previous one, by the fact that I think it's unsustainable, unnecessary, inadequate and pointless. I'll explain it in a few sentences. I think those who have proposed the amendment that they have proposed it for three possible reasons, first for fun, second for ignorance and running away from not knowing the essence of being. I think this is for fun, because there are some great lawyers among them, and I can't figure it out, and you see this amendment that reads: the law of objects and buildings. My shortness will go a little bit to the legal profession, gentlemen, so we'll settle the future amendments quickly. The word building is already covered by the concept of object. Glagolitically speaking, you Serbian language teachers, if the object is a verb supplement that marks who the shop is or what it is done on, then in a grammatical sense fully corresponds to a legal solution, Madam Minister. You're absolutely right about the facilities, as well as the laws. The legislation is a Serbian word, meaning legal recognition and harmonisation, Serbian language dictionary number four, page 81, book four, "Matica Serbian" 71. Legalization is a Latin word, so we don't go into details now. Therefore, gentlemen of law professors at the university, yet students look at us for at least this kind of thing. Secondly, when I said about the building, what Latin means object I said, and legal gentlemen Members of Parliament, the object is the subject of subject's obligations in legal relations. I hope you won't deny it. We solved the problem. Building in a building sense, now going to construction, gentlemen building engineers is a building consisting of external walls and roof construction and one or more closed rooms. You want a quote from the construction dictionary? It says that the bill of law, Madam Minister, is remarkable as well as what concerns buildings and legislation. So I suggest that the amendment be rejected and not only him, these previous ones, but also those who will come about the name of the law, because it's below the level of our students at law school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39699	Thank you. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39700	The PRECRET movement has submitted another amendment to essential nature. First, I should like to thank all those who care and take care of the PRECRET Movement, and tonight is the constitutional session of the Belgrade City Committee, the crown of our work in Belgrade. Otherwise, the movement is said in the Hungarian brain, I will each time educate the followers of national minorities as the PRECRET Movement is said to be. This law has one serious flaw. It legalises under quotes, as the young people say, also laws and facilities built or built after the last Law on Legalisation was passed. Just what I pointed to the last time you were here, Madam Minister, a member of the government most inefficient in the world. Then I said clearly – now that you pass this law, the mixers, the construction machines, and the building of illegal objects, which you will once again legalize. And here it is, it's built, say, tennis courts at school, high school, and you're going to legalize these facilities now. That's what your party colleague did. You'll also legalize other objects that you say you see from the plane footage, or from the aircraft. It's not the rule of law, gentlemen. So, you're going to rekindle those who light the mixer today and make the rest legal for a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39701	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39702	I thank the chairman. Dear Madam Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that, of course, this amendment be rejected. I support all the reasons that the government has stated in its opinion that it has delivered to us. First, again, it is unclear who is proposing this amendment. We have again come up with an amendment signed with Professor Dr, not to read the name and name, so the withdrawal of the Movement for PRECRET. Since I read the amendments carefully, as well as the reasons for the amendments, I must note that some other independent MPs when proposing amendments are signed by name and last name, and here we have the name, last name, withdrawal of the Movement for PRECRET. I don't know if a man changed his name and name in the meantime, you should see it in his ID card. Maybe he registered in his own name the data or whatever it is we'll see. It would be more appropriate to write - an MP in a dilemma, that is, in doubt. So, when it comes to the amendment, it's a completely unnecessary amendment. So, unnecessary and unacceptable, and I can't help but look back at that explanation of the amendment's proposings devising the entire intensity he wanted to amend right now. In its explanation, I believe that the subject of the legislation cannot be objects whose construction was started or built after the last amendments to the Law on Legalisation, be careful – object, I don't know what it means – the object, there is not one mistake, therefore, a lonely case, there are a number of mistakes, but we don't want to be petty now, because other citizens are being brought into an unequal position. Here's a hypothetical to accept this amendment. So, to exempt all these objects, is that not going to be an inequality? What about those faces, then? Then what about these facilities, what about those citizens? So, absolutely pointless and I think we've wasted too much time. So I took more time too. I suggest for all these reasons, so we reject this amendment and hope we refuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39703	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. ) (Balša Bozovic, from the place: The Movement for Turning is mentioned. Mr. Bozovic, are you kidding? Because the Turnover Movement is mentioned, what does that mean for the National Assembly? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: There. ) Is there a Parliament Group in the National Assembly of the Turnover Movement? (Balsa Bozovic, from town: There. I see you're a bit of a pain in the ass today, Mr. Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Marinkovic. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39704	I wanted to follow the previous amendment, but some units weren't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39705	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39706	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it somehow seems to me that we have come too emotionally to consider this law in accordance with the amendments and that one of the objectives of this debate should be and that our citizens understand what opportunities they have, which opportunities open up this law. So the fact is that for more than ten years we haven't been able to solve this problem and that we need a new legal solution and that it's high time to draw a line and that everything we can do and that these problems don't come up again. So there are a lot of solutions that the government sees as a matter of public interest, the public interest that this area is, therefore, resolved, because the solutions that are quite afraid of the solutions that we have so far, and that is why I can say that this law makes it much easier to legalise ordinary citizens. To transfer the responsibility of everything to state authorities. It is a very different concept compared to what we had and compared to the Croatian legislation that is often mentioned here, where citizens themselves make demands. You mean you don't apply now. The state and the building inspection are doing their job. You only need two documents to finish, legalize your facility, of course if there are conditions for it, and the conditions are set quite wide at minimum financial costs and there is no reason for this amendment which brings us back to 2014, let's look at the real situation in the country. The question is, is the state able to tear down thousands of construction buildings across Serbia? At 2015, we draw the line and I am sure that this government will have power in 20125, after the adoption of this law, to tear down those objects that are being built after that deadline, because there is no excuse for citizens if, by this simple procedure, the minimum costs do not legalize their facilities, then I really don't think the Government has any reason to feel any remorse and when it goes into the process of destroying these objects. So let us help the citizens understand how simple this law is, how simple it allows them to mutilate, legalize, if you will, existing objects and that future discussions take a little more care of the citizens and give them as much information as possible so that they can finish this job in a satisfactory way compared to the citizens themselves and the whole regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39707	Thank you, Mr. Antic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitutional and Legal System of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The National MPs Gordana Komic, together Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, together Jovan Marković, Dragan Sutanovac and together Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the 2nd amendment in the same text. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in principle, we said that this law is a slap on all those citizens and investors who honestly and in accordance with the law were building buildings, whether for housing, whether for the market purpose and for the minister's lady, although here unwittingly trying to convince us that somehow DS was guilty of illegal construction because it was impossible to obtain permits or they waited for a long time, that argument would make sense if everyone were to build, in case they were all building illegally. However, the fact is that not everyone was building illegally, that there were citizens and investors who did everything in accordance with the law, who paid dearly everything they had to pay and there were citizens and investors who didn't do such things, and you are actually forgiving this law to all investors who were building illegally and perhaps a minor problem is moral, which you forgive them, and the bigger problem is that you directly put money in their pocket. These members we're proposing to delete have enough cheeks to make them public interest. That's, I mean, the peak of cynicism, where you have two investors, one that he's built to pay some 100 thousand-euro fees and you have an investor who, in accordance with this new law on the building he built in the same place, might pay 5,000 euros and you give a single investor 95,000 euros. You put this money directly in his pocket and you declare it a public interest. You, therefore, call Mrs Mihajlović's private interest in this proposal a public interest all by convincing us how much better this is than what was done before.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39709	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39710	Ladies and gentlemen, when you say: slap, then this is a slap to Serbia as a whole. A million and a half illegal facilities times four family members, three family members, are five million Serbian citizens. Here is essentially one ignorance – when you say – you take money from someone. I think this law is a public interest in the state of Serbia because all those who paid and all those who did not pay can ask one key question – and what did we get for that money we paid? What we're going to do is if everyone who paid, and there's a small part of them, because you have a huge number of social objects, they ask the state and they start a litigation, what the state should have done for them on the basis of that fee. You know, when you were paying the fee -- the construction land, you had to have something, right? You made some kind of contract. What are we going to do with the ones who made the payments and they don't have it? Who are they gonna sue? From whom will they collect the damage for the last 20 years if they have paid compensation, and do not have or pay the water connection, electricity connection, travel infrastructure? Is it a public interest to have judicial proceedings and it is perfectly understandable to me when you have one legislative authority that has been experienced and which has been experienced until two years ago as a god and which has not respected its own laws, could have violated them, then it is quite difficult for you to understand that the state is not above all and that you have laws and principles of contractual obligation and that you have to respect those standards. It is no problem that we do not understand each other and there is no problem that public interest cannot be seen in the RS Assembly. What's so controversial about that? Someone doesn't think so. There is no law in the RS that has been passed over the past 40 years without having a public interest. Is that right? Yes, it is. Are the privatisation laws of 2000 public interest? Have all the decisions made and in practice shown public interest?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39711	Mr. Kovacevic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39712	An amendment, a public interest. So, the SNS believes this law has a public interest because it concerns at least a few million Serbian citizens. In the choice between politics and public interest and Serbian citizens, SNS has nothing to choose from, they are Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39713	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go, Mrs. Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39714	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues, this is just another example of how the SNS wants to take care of its citizens. A much smaller number of investors, and why are we only bonding to large buildings? On the other hand, mostly these large buildings at the time, in 2000 to 2012, were built by your friends, so perhaps if they left you, you are now wrong and sorry that they will eventually benefit. We care about the citizens of Serbia and want to tighten their housing facilities at the lowest possible prices. Of course, and it was said when we explained this law in principle, that it was simply an injustice to those who respected the laws, but mostly, it's a very small number of people. If they didn't do it during your reign, they were persecuted, released. That's what they had to do. Only your friends, and in the time of the two thousand years, built on pastures, renamed buildings, missing 800 military apartments, because they were renamed, and now they had military faces that were homeless. Think about it and start thinking about ordinary citizens of Serbia who want to legalise their housing and are mostly less than 100 square meters. Stop being megalomatous and just treat those who have built thousands and thousands of squares illegally, and come from your party ranks. As for those tennis courts, where good luck is that we had as many tennis courts as possible, not that we had an object for carefree children who were destroyed, and a million euros, if I remember correctly, disappeared, at the expense of disabled children. Think about it, then take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39715	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mr. Jovan Markovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39716	Dear citizens of Serbia, as our esteemed colleague, Mr Babic said a few days ago -- a hundred times a repeated lie, becomes true, so for days and months we have listened to various lies here concerning DS. They repeat themselves and thus conceal the very bad bill that lies here today in front of us in the process. So, honourable fellow MPs, what is the essence of this amendment. This is also fine, is that right, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39717	Mr. Markovic, does one of the MPs show anything behind his post, and he doesn't say anything, and he doesn't disturb your exposure, and I can't react as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39718	I have to sit down, but it's okay what he's doing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39719	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39720	You just told me to sit down, and now a colleague can do what he wants and that's okay?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39721	Are you saying I forbid the MPs to stand up?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39722	I was banned a moment ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39723	I forbade you not to disturb, not to throw away and not to allow MPs, your colleague, Natashi Vukkovic to speak, and Mr Rističević holds some papers without a single word, because RTS pointed cameras at him, there is nothing I can do about it. It's media freedom. Use your time, I don't understand why you're doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39724	Can you give me back my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39725	How can I give you back your time? Time's up, two minutes. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39726	Dear Vice President, again, I think we will very quickly resolve this amendment and all amendments to this article of the law, just to try to explain what it is of public interest, as they deny that this bill is of public interest, gentlemen from the opposition benches in particular. It's not shocking if it's what law professors do in a college class. Let me quote one sentence: “The public interest is the interest of the entire social community or of certain parts of it that law must ever be taken into account, ” Legal Lexicon 64/333. However, ladies and gentlemen, to be clear about the legal interest, that does not mean that the right should not protect and private interest, but when? As a general interest. We have two examples of this – the private interest is protected only by explicitly defined law, while the public interest is constantly protected. So he's in continuity, he's constantly protecting himself, etc., and he's privately defined by law. Private interests shall only be protected if they are in accordance with public interest. But this is the last sentence I'm going to say. It is very difficult in the legal science to say what it is public, what it is private interest, but I underline this, but it is usually left to the competent authority of the state to appreciate in every particular situation what it is public interest and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made the proposal for this law in Article 2 extremely fine. Gentlemen of the law, there are many of you here, I think this is really too much to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39727	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39728	With respect to all the pious legal advice we get, I think the amendment makes sense, because this is one of the few laws in which the law is passed and this area is defined as a public interest. Of course, every law we bring here is in the public interest. Did we pass any law, did in the previous session, have since the 1804th year, which has been measured as the beginning of modern Serbian history, a state body, and, above all, the Assembly, in various forms, passed a law that deals with private interest? It would be very sad if something like that had happened, and if something like that had happened by not writing explicitly in those laws like this in Article 2 that it was a public interest, then we're in big trouble. This means that the whole modern Serbian history through parliament has passed laws, laws that are opposed to public interest were passed in Serbia. Of course not, of course there have been a lot of failures, but most of the laws passed in the Serbian parliament at any time in the last 100 and a few years have been laws that have been passed in the public interest, some successful, some less successful. Therefore, right here is the problem of insisting on this theatreism, of estradating the law. If you're saying this is the law, it's like saying that this law is legal and that this law is supposed to curtail an area. Well, of course it's in the public interest and of course it's legal. Therefore, that was the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39729	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39730	I was already afraid the president wouldn't give me a word. As far as this proposal is concerned, colleague Jerkov, I think he's quite interesting. Why? Last night I was in a society and the famous Belgrade neimar Mr. Ciric, called Cira, who is on the women's line of Crnotravac, so I guess out of this love and came up with this job, he referred a similar question to me. He said – all my working life I worked honestly and honestly, I paid all the permits neatly, I had all the papers regularly and everything I did, I worked in spirit and by letter of law. Is it fair now that someone who did the opposite, who didn't have the permits, who didn't do it in accordance with the law, with some 5,000 dinars or euros, pays something that I paid 100,000 euros? It was hard for me to answer that question, but I asked him, since he's retired now, how long he hasn't worked. It hasn't worked for five years, which means it was all in that period until 2010. Who was then in charge of issuing these permits, giving papers to investors, who is in Belgrade's municipalities mostly in power, who is in Vojvodina in power, who led to this confusion? I agree that the problem of illegal construction has arisen a few decades ago. There were problems before the '90s, and after the '90s, but what started from 2000 to today, for example, it really went too far. I think colleagues from the Democratic Party should be grateful to this government who is trying to correct their misdemeanors, to correct what they have destroyed, what they have done for Serbia, that is, against the citizens of Serbia. And if it happens somewhere, and there's got to be some kind of failure, try one collegiate way to make it right with us. Is it possible to solve these problems so that everyone is satisfied? Well, it's not, and it can never be. Most likely, some mistakes will be made through this law and some failures will be made that will always be said to be wrong. As Mr. Ciric asked me yesterday, many will ask questions, but once and for all, this has to be resolved. I hope that we will all be able to shape this proposal together as best for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39731	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dejan Nikolic, a replica, mentions DS. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39732	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you didn't know to answer Mr. Ciric, called Ciri, you don't know to answer the questions we've been asking all along. You refer to previous times and previous laws and mention in this context and some big corruption. Well, the minister from this government passed a previous law. He's sitting in government today, in Germany's 11th. Half the government voted in favour of the law before the law that sits in Germany's 11th today. Who gave the licenses? Well, start with Josip Broz, Kaluderica was created then, so through Slobodan Milosevic, Tomislav Nikolic and all the others by 2015. These are the people whose governments issued the permits. It's true that the boom occurred after 2000. That's right. A large number of refugees came back then. If we enter the genealogy of who led those wars and who lost those wars, you will see all the nonsense of your statements and your findings today in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39733	Thank you. The word of the Rules of Procedure has the People's MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39734	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, Article 107. In the absence of a clear argument, without having the courage to look into the mirror and admit his mistakes and to somehow define your mistakes in those "other" who led, but not by mentioning the name and last name of those people who led this country in the wrong way for 12 years, unfortunately, Vojvodina's water and longer, the water is unfortunately and now, offended by another MP, Professor Ljubisa Stojmirovic. A man who can not only give answers, but also appreciates and evaluates the answers of others, doing the professor's work for more years than Mr Nikolic has a year of life. Then when there is no clear argument, Mr. Nikolic is such a man, who, I repeat, has many years of experience in education and experience with students than Mr. Nikolic has years of life, rated as someone who does not know how to answer. By the way, he put himself and those people who misleaded Vojvodina, who had led our country for 12 years, into the "other", only to bear no responsibility and no blame for this situation in which our country found itself in such a destructive policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39735	Thank you. (Ljubisa Stojmirović, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica, Mr Stojmirovic. I also let Mr. Babic know if you mentioned it, but you didn't mention it in Mr. Nikolic's exposure. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovici and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39736	Respected Serbian citizens, a respected minister, in Article 3 of the first position, say the subject of legislation in terms of this law refers to buildings that have been completed in a building sense. All these colleagues, as well as colleagues Atlagic and all those others who spoke, were to pay close attention to what I had said about Article 1 and to pay attention to how closely he was related to this Article 3 and how much he was lurking here in these proposals and how difficult these proposals would be to apply in practice. In the second position of this member, it is said that exclusively from the provisions of Article 1, when the subject of building law is the subject of legislation, only constructive construction works can be carried out. So, gentlemen of the Parliament, this is where we talk about the mention of buildings that aren't finished. Since you have not respected our amendment to Article 1, the question now arises whether in this article and in these procedures people who have not completed their facilities, houses that are 100 square meters, but, say, they are just under the board, will they be able to sharpen their objects in the next period? Since you have not answered the question of whether the law of objects is at the same time and obtaining a valid permit, then the question arises whether you can act on this Article 3. for all buildings or only for residential buildings, which you probably thought of in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39737	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica. How can you, Mr. Atlagic, be a replica? (Marko Atlagic, from the place: He mentioned me by name and last name. I'm sorry, you have your word. I apologize, Mr. Zivkovic, the word has Dr. Marko Atlagic, mentioning his last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39738	Dear Vice President, I have no intention of answering again, nor quoting lexicons, nor students' textbooks, but let me say, in a negative context, my colleague mentioned me, even about the name of this law. I don't think you're all right about what the government suggested, because I said what one word means and what the other means. You even went so far without knowing the meaning of the words, not knowing Serbian and saying we borrowed from the Croats. You know, I've quoted you as saying it's a Serbian word here, with the more it's said that the Croats borrowed the word "legislative" from us. Look, please, Serbian. Here it is, I'll read it to you if you want, so you can see that in legal, grammar and every other and civic sense it really means that. So that's not correct. Here's the thing that we're all over the facts, about better solutions, and what the previous speaker was saying, it says in the law the correct answer. I don't think we all read the laws and all the amendments. He's completely writing you the answer to the question you're asking right now, and there's no reason why none of the MPs, nor Mrs. Minister's answer. Thank you very much and excuse the intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39739	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39740	I point out the breach of Article 106, which in the first position says that the speaker can only speak about the point of the agenda under investigation. I assume that the colleague is engrossed with these encyclopedias and these books and that you may be tired today, the chairman, but tell the gentleman, fellow MP that this is where the third law we're looking at today, not Article 2, and I never said to borrow... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39741	Mr. Markovic, I have asked you several times to read the Rules of Procedure in your spare time. Mr. Atlagic has received a replica on your presentation and mentioning his name and name. The replica doesn't have to stick to the agenda, and now I'm taking two minutes away from you because you've abused your application to the Rules of Procedure. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39742	There is no doubt that the argument given by counterpart Markovic is quite enough to realize that the solution given in the amendment to Article 3(2) by Mr Sutanovac, Markovic, Pavicevic and on my behalf is a better solution and more precisely defines this matter. This more precise definition reduces the possibility of abuse of this law, which, regardless of what should not be put into Article 2, is of public interest. It is obvious that in the creation of this law that had the necessity to pass, there is no doubt that it is necessary to pass the law that should solve the hundreds of thousands and millions of lawless objects raised for decades, and not in the last 10 years, that, however, when the law was passed, whoever wrote it, and I am not going to enter into an investigation of who it is because who is responsible for the bill's proposal, it was going to go with a new legal solution that would be better than the previous ones, but still with an adequate number of holes that would be a good place to plant, develop corruption and to collect the results of that corruption. I can doubt it's the idea of the Prime Minister, the minister or the people who are in the ministry, but generally it's not a good solution. I'm not comfortable, even when a bad government misses a chance to do something good. That is why amendments that apparently aim to correct the law are submitted, and the proponent, or government, does not want the law to be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39743	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that, of course, not accept this amendment for a number of reasons. I'll list some who are more significant. I'm not even sure that all the amendment promoters, and especially the previous speaker, will vote in favour of their amendment. The more we accepted their amendments, the more we voted for their amendments than they did themselves. To be honest, I'd even hesitate if they came for some of their amendments and we voted, but I don't think they'd even allow us to vote with their presence, to be present when we vote for their amendments. What's remarkable to me is that they keep talking about some public interest. During the rule of the party of the former regime, all the public affairs they were conducting were accepted, they were turned into private businesses and today when they talk about public affairs, it's just touching for me because they did not solve citizens' existence, but their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39745	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39746	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. In technical terms between the word "building" and the word "building facility" or "object" cannot be used as a sign of equality. There's no such thing as equality. For this reason, I would invite the amendment promoters to take a look at the classification of the types of construction facilities issued by the Bureau of Statistics, so they will see that they are under the classes of buildings, so under the number of one building, they can be residential buildings, residential buildings, and under two other buildings, traffic infrastructures, pipelines, complex industrial buildings, etc. Therefore, between the word "object", "building facility", and the word "building" cannot be used as a sign of equality. Under number two, what is not to accept this amendment is also an explanation that has come and said that this law is a possibility for corruption, i.e. to impair the fruits of corruption. I don't know if it's some kind of self-projection of the amendment promoter, so something that happened on Frusch Mountain, on the slopes of Fruska Mountain, has been passed, and in a magical way, the vineyard has become an apartment on Vrakar or more apartments on Vrakar. Did he mean that kind of legislation of the fruits of corruption? Under three, one of the amendment's proposings could, as an amendment, be instead of "objects" to say "building", but not just a building, but a building on Vrakar. He doesn't have to worry, he doesn't have to worry about his building on Vrakar built on the pasture of the second, third, class, I don't know which, indeed, this law applies to all construction buildings, this law applies to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so he doesn't have to draw his building on the Vrakar pasture of the second or third class.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39747	The People's MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39748	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with your team, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, once again you have shown that your orientation towards business, business and the development of general interest in the Republic of Serbia is, of course, through the development of production plants and economic environments which will lead to as much foreign and domestic investment as possible, so it is totally undeniable. I thank you for accepting this amendment that agrees with this legal solution with the Law on Planning and Construction, for the very reason that there are many of those objects that don't have to imply classical walls. In accordance with new technologies, there are mounting and panel walls that are built into the facility and of course, following that principle, we thought that these buildings, especially production halls, noting, which still have no walls, could be subject to legislation, if, of course, they meet all other conditions. This will be another contribution, another contribution that this law can be implemented in full capacity, is in the interest of the economy. You've just come to understand that, as a minister now, the government of the Republic of Serbia is using the opportunity it has from a position that was, I think, when it comes to building permits, only behind Serbia were Syria and Somalia at one point, and we all in this room and we know beyond what state these two countries are in. It does not seem to help further progress on the Duing Business List of the World Bank of 39 places, that in the same hall, the esteemed House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia promotes quasi-levičkar demagogy on how this legal solution takes care of the interests of businessmen who did not comply with the law to build these facilities. It's okay to make that observation. But I haven't heard a single concrete proposal on what to do with these businessmen in a country where the strategic goal is to develop employment, to create new jobs, to promote a whole new economy policy. Surely it's not the goal of tearing down the halls and tearing down especially production facilities. So thank you for accepting this amendment. I think it will make a great contribution to these facilities being collateral in the future, when it comes to obtaining opportunities for new credit funds, for development, for expanding the reproduction of these businesses, and in any case it will be a beautiful news that will contribute to the economic growth of our country. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39749	Thank you. The People's MP Suzanne Spasojevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Here you are, MP Susana Spasojevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39750	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Chairman, let me just point out that I am using the time of an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I think that this amendment may not have been quite understood because, in your explanation for the refusal of amendments, you have stated that the amendment is not accepted, given that there are precisely prescribed situations in which such an object can end in a building and constructional sense. With the proposal of this amendment in the old we wanted to create conditions for as many objects as possible, whether to start or finish, to end, or to enter on the basis of the issued building and use permits, means, in one regular procedure and just by introducing this category of objects and conditions called "fitting", any further legalisation in the future would be avoided. Because the procedure would appear to be so that after the investor submits an application for the fitting of the facility for any reason, the expert service of urbanism which is responsible for the legalisation of the facilities issue information on the inclusion of facilities in the location containing all the conditions and any restrictions from the standard location information, as well as measures to fit the starting or completed facility. After that, the design of a project, i.e. an idea solution in one of the intended variants, has two. One variant is that the object fits as it is, and in the other version it may be required to remove some part of the object and then apply for location conditions. Local conditions are issued in one regular procedure, where all of us insist and strive and fit in according to the planned urban frameworks, without any urban or any other discount. I repeat, this is only in order for as many objects to enter the regular procedure. I think it's really least important in the course of which governments are more built of illegal objects. If we start to analyze whose governments are more built and the reasons why they were, I don't think it's going to feel right for those who are just insisting on it. The most important thing for us, as MPs, who are responsible for the people, is for the government responsible for the people, to find the best possible legal solution to resolve lawless construction, which is indeed many in Serbia, in such a way that it is most favourable for the citizens of Serbia. We have indeed many laws, many amendments and additions to the law, which did not give effect, and the citizens could not meet the conditions laid down by the laws. If it is our goal to help the citizens, especially those who have thus solved their housing issues, then I really think this is the law that provides such a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39751	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39752	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, dear fellow MPs, of course, that we should look at the essence of the amendments of fellow Members Susana Spasojevic, and in this direction I am supporting this amendment, because in principle we had a certain debate, not a controversy, not a dialogue, but perhaps more skeptics according to a proposal that existed at the time as something that is probably not entirely acceptable for you as a promoter, because at that time we said that there was no point in determining the law of the building, but rather a termological or conceptual provision should be made for the law of works, and the works carried out on the building, because the building as a building facility is a finally completed facility, unless it is a possible building in construction. What has been proposed by colleague Susana Spasojevic is, above all, in order to prevent what can happen in the future, and at the same time something that really makes it possible, in the most efficient way, that, in the most practical sense, all the objects that really have this aspect of fitting in to the location information that must be contained, because the location information provided by the Planning Act must also contain these parameters relating to the fitting of the building, object or works carried out on the facility. This fitting actually involves that final aspect, that is, the goal that this law aims to achieve. Therefore, this amendment is exclusively aimed at raising the quality of the law and I think that you should consider accepting this amendment, because it does carry within it a certain weight that implies the effectiveness of this law and in the future in practical application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39753	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39754	Just so we're clear, it doesn't go unexplained. In your proposal for an amendment, you wrote, among other things, any stage of construction. Any stage of construction could be the foundation. The government has very clearly prescribed functional and building minimum conditions that must exist in order to be able to go into the process of legislation. If you think we should law and base today, we disagree. So it just can't be the subject of this law. We want to solve the problem, we want to solve the already built, or put under the roof, or already, as we have defined in the law the objects, but when we talk about prevention, among other things, you mentioned, this law does not need to give us any prevention. This law solves the currently built objects, and we have already passed a law that makes it impossible and does not allow you to build any more without permission. This law is not about that. The law on planning and building and obtaining a building permit is a law that no longer gives you the opportunity to build without a building permit. We could not agree with the formulation – any phase of construction, because it is simply not acceptable. We need minimum and functional building conditions to legalize the facility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39755	Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39756	Of course, respected colleagues, that Serbian citizens are fully aware that in the previous five attempts to implement laws that existed of good intention, but also that this is a very big problem and that there must be a system solution for solving such a problem and we all the time and in the principle debate, and today through the amendment debate, we are trying to point out that this law is deeply unfair, that there are many gaps, that it will be difficult to apply. One of the members who refers to this attempt to correct this law through amendments is precisely related to this terminology, where we said in the position of the 2nd member that instead of the term – in terms of the law, you use the term – in accordance with the laws, and in this case – which determines the building of objects. In paragraph 3, it's also the same formula. Instead of saying – in terms of the law, to use terms – in accordance with the law, in this case – which regulates state diameter and catastre. Here it may be crucial that our intention to assist people, citizens of Serbia who have the following problems, in the position of the 6th member, and are related to this procedure – if all the necessary documents, documentation and relationships have been regulated in the legalisation process for local administrations, that they have come into the situation that no building permit has been issued, that no applicable permit has been issued, how to restore money in the coming period, but not only that, but also that they have been disabled. That is why we said that at the end of this attitude is said – but the competent authority did not pay the building permit fee, etc. until the day of entry into force of this law, the local self-government unit is obliged to return funds and a mutilated facility to that person. In case this amendment isn't accepted, and it isn't, then people on the ground will have a big problem. It's not just the goal here to get that money back, but to determine the responsibility for which no permit has been issued, or that the object is mutilated in the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39757	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39758	In this amendment, in an excuse, the promoter says that erasing attitude 1 is not a good solution, and I accept our mistake. But I think in the other part, these are the corrections in attitude 2 that become attitude 1, where words change and in attitude 5, what Mr. Markovic said earlier, I think they're better solutions than those given in the text of the proposal. These interventions were aimed at clarifying, simplifying and improving the law, so that its application would be easier, more adequate and unequivocal. If it gives any opportunity to interpret it in two or more ways, then, as we know, it's a fertile soil for corruption. Since we all say in this House that we do not have a desire to do this, on the contrary, we all loudly say that this is our biggest problem and that we are all ready to fight it, then the beginning of that fight should be precisely in the laws that we are making, that there are no systemic mistakes in these laws that are the right place for the development of corruption that I have already talked about. Therefore, I expect, as I have acknowledged, that this position 1 is necessary and that it should remain and that we were wrong when we asked for its erasure, that the motioner should respect our arguments for the rest of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39759	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39760	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come forward for the part of the amendment relating to attitude 1. In Section 1, you have an obligation that those buildings that were built, I think before 1972, they didn't even need a building permit. And the proposer of this law wanted to simply simplify the procedure, because in the current law on planning and construction you have the opportunity to legalize these objects, draw, get electrical installation, water installation without any problems. You just need to follow a procedure that already exists and that you simply don't burden this law and all this big work that's ahead of us when it comes to recording all these objects that are illegally built, we don't need to deal with this as well. So the goal is efficiency, speed, and this period of one year is respected. Therefore, there is no reason to erase this attitude. He does not exclude these people, and they can already legalize and introduce their facilities under current law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39761	The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39762	It is certainly a pleasure when we all agree more on this amendment and realize that it has a serious problem, first of all, as regards Article 4. All the buildings built in the rural area before 1968 did not have the obligation to have a building permit. This means that we didn't have any detailed urban plans for a large part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because numerous suburban settlements were actually made in the rural area. So accepting this amendment is actually contrary to what the state has already prescribed. She did not ask for any construction permit in 1968, and therefore could not be charged compensation for the construction land in a legalisation process like this. It is pointless to ask farmers in Šumadia to use the facilities that were built in 1902, 1905 and that in this way we, this Assembly, practically retroactively introduce to them some rules that are pointless. It should also be said that this Law on Lawmaking is not unique, that fewer such laws on law enforcement have all countries, especially those countries that have embarked on joining the EU. Seven, eight years ago, this law was passed in Bulgaria, practically identical. We need to understand that this law essentially stems from the need for a social order that existed in one part of Europe. Therefore, this SNS amendment is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39763	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Master Dejana Radenkovic. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39764	The Honorable Chairman, once again, of the time of the authorised representative and for the record. Minister, this is the member. What did we really want? That the Law of Law also applies to facilities that have a temporary permit. Why? So, what's a temporary permit? What do objects have that have a temporary permit? First, we know when that license was introduced in the '80s. We know that the decision on the temporary permit was suspended in 2003. We know what was built on a provisional permit and how a temporary permit was used, and we know the reasons why it was introduced in the 1980s. The deadlines on which this temporary permit was issued are largely expired, so I really don't see any reason why temporary permit facilities wouldn't be covered by this law, because it's practically like they don't have any permits. We know, the Law on Planning and Construction, which is now in force, the temporary building permit is issued for the construction of an asphalt base, aggregates, concrete factories, etc. If the facilities that have a temporary permit, I mean residential and business facilities, we don't apply this Law of Law, but we go to some regular procedure, so we issue a valid permit, and we know what the conditions for obtaining a valid permit are, means a technical examination that needs to be carried out, so that includes the control of compliance of works carried out with the building permit, with technical documentation, etc. These facilities generally do not have technical documentation, and projects based on which a temporary permit has been issued, you know that the conditions of these projects are largely not respected, so I really don't know what will enable the technical reception to be carried out and get a useful permit when these objects are involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39765	Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and the magistrate, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted the 4th amendment together. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39766	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted this amendment for the simple reason that there are many collegiations in this bill, a member, with many members, and it has affected our decision to correct all the mistakes that exist and that have been made and that in fact no one has ever paid attention to. Hundreds of thousands of objects will not be legalized because of this kind of collegiation. They won't be able to legalize exactly the citizens that are allegedly making this law happen. Hundreds of thousands of objects that make up a roof over the head, primarily Serbian citizens, will not be able to but they will therefore have large commercial facilities, business spaces of tens and tens of thousands of squares, of course, can be legalized. What is going on, this is our question, Minister Zorani Mihajlovic, in a situation where all those who have built under the law will sue Serbia to return the money they paid for the city's construction land? How is it possible that someone in Zlatibor 10,000 square meters will get a discount of 50 million dinars, and how then or why not get a European court to sue Serbia in the central Belgrade municipality for paying neatly all the fees he had to pay under the law. That's why we think that this law is not equal, especially to those who, on the Sava Venac, Vjerar, Old Town, Palilula, Zvezdovac, have been paying neatly all these years for the construction of city land. Then a European court says – All right, you will either return it to everyone or you will have to charge these partners of yours that we claim to be behind this bill, and we are only talking about the DS that it is the construction mafia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39767	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39768	I thank the chairman. We had just heard a principled debate in this law, and the promoter did not refer to what was proposed by this amendment and why it cannot be accepted. This amendment proposes to be deleted in Article 4(3) which states what this law does not apply. This law does not apply to buildings that have already received construction permits, and that is exactly what this member explains, so everything that has already entered into the legalisation process will simply be stopped in some place and will go under this new law, meaning legislation. What is very important to say is that it is not accurate information that this law will do bad for those who have individual residential buildings, but rather, for all those who have built up to 100-200 square meters, this law will really do good, and it is precisely those people who could not reach building permits or because of the lack of planning documentation and could not enter the legalisation process because they did not have enough money to implement it according to previous laws. What I'd say is, once again, let's point out that it's a family home in 85% of cases of illegally built objects. So the rest are buildings. What I would like to point out is that when we looked back on that since the illegal construction started, these individual housing facilities were built at the time of the 1990s when the inflow of evasive persons began to build these buildings, just these percentages we're talking about, they're starting to build. Why do we suffer the inability to conduct legalization? It's because of these buildings that they didn't respect, because investors had ties to local designers and people who decided about it. The construction lines were not respected, the buildings were not adequately separated, all of which, even if they wanted to legalise, eventually could not legalize those facilities. For all of this, it is necessary to draw the line, of course, that there will be partly justice, that someone will profit, and it will probably legalize objects built since 2000, which have simply been standing on the streets, there are no more sidewalks, they can't even get around, they can't even get around fire trucks, but they have to draw a line. What is the goal of both these governments and the Serbian Progressive Party, is that all that will be built in the future will be by the rules and by the laws, and that is what the goal is, rather than the other way around. There comes a time when much more will be built. So our goal is to build up in the future according to the law and building permits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39769	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39770	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I think that what we said in the principle debate, as regards this attitude 3, he is in a legal-technical sense acceptable, only that in the principle debate we felt that it might be complementary to the fact that the requirements need to be met by the law of the envisaged conditions. However, given that this position is somehow attached to the previous position of 2 that has been spoken of by distinguished colleague Susana Spasojevic, I will ask you, dear Minister, to avoid some dilemmas, just one clarification. What will happen in the event of a temporary construction permit expires, because it is issued for a certain time, it is armed, when that time expires, and absolutely is an object which is subject to a temporary building permit illegal because there are no more of these temporary building permits? On the other hand, the decision making that temporary building permit ceases to apply. So we don't even have a material and legal basis for a temporary construction permit, and we don't have a temporary building permit anymore. So why don't we consider this facility an illegal object and take it under the law, in accordance with the provisions of the proposed law that we consider to be good? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39771	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39772	If the amendments were proposed in the explanation, when he talked about the construction mafia and the existence of illegal things during work and inspection bodies, but also the authorities of the local self-government unit, he was referring to the city municipality of Palilu, which we have read about for days in a prominent daily newspaper, and how it is in the relationship between local officials, and I will remind you that Palilu is leading when DS is in the past and in this meeting, and how in connection with the inspection bodies of the Palilu municipality, both the president and the former and current president of the Palilu municipality, otherwise the senior officials of DS, allows everything. The amount, according to one prominent daily, amounts from five to 100,000 euros, most often couriers, drivers of the Palilu municipality's officials, and then anything is possible and anything can, and is allowed to lift several floors more and never get out, nor do they do their job. If the amendment promoter meant staff of the DS within the Palilu municipality's construction mafia, then all right, we can talk about it, because these are indeed anomalies that are in the interest of the citizens of the Palilu municipality and the citizens of Belgrade, but also the citizens of Serbia, they really need to be cut off and banned by surgical means.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39773	The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39774	Yesterday, the case was mentioned correctly. But yesterday we gave an answer that I think you didn't consider, which is next. What you're talking about in Palilu, it's an object that has 8,000 squares. It is known that up to 800 square feet of buildings are in charge of the municipality, and over 800 square meters of permits are issued by the City of Belgrade and by the competent construction inspection of the City of Belgrade. Therefore, do not attribute things to us that are absolutely not standing. You do it all the time and you think if you tell a lie a hundred times, the people will think it's true. It's not a good method, and after all, it's gonna come back to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39775	The word is made by MP Branka Bosnjak, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39776	Thank you. Dear Minister and Associates, dear colleagues, when we talk about the list of objects that should be subject to legalisation, regarding this amendment, I would like to say that if it were accepted, we would practically have one large number of objects that should be legalised by this law lost from the list, given that a large number of objects were granted a building permit and at the construction stage there were any changes, there were breakthroughs in urban parameters, and I believe that everything should remain in line with the proposed member. I would like to join my colleagues, Susana Spasojevic and Neda Jovanovic. It seems to me that objects with a temporary permit in everything fit the situation in which they are presently located. I even think that for a large number of temporary-licensed objects, we have a situation that at the stage of obtaining these permits they respected the appropriate conditions, because by certain given parameters and obtained those permits. I think it might be a good idea for them to get on the list of these objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39777	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39778	You're right that they respected it, precisely because they had a temporary building permit and they respected all the regulations. It's perfectly natural and we've given it very clearly in the law and they can go immediately to seek their applicable permission. Once again, this law solves the question of those who do not have a building permit. The temporary construction permit is already a kind of building permit and that was why we did not respect certain amendments to this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39779	Thank you. Mrs. Branka, you have no right to a replica, only by amendment. (Branka Bosnjak, from the city: After the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39780	I'd just like to say, I think that when I suggested that objects with a temporary permit might be respected, I thought it would be good for them to carry out the legal process under the same procedure. I don't think they should be sanctioned, on the contrary. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39781	Thank you. The 4th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39782	Thank you. Article 4 defines objects to which this law does not apply. We are in the position of the 6th same member, it is otherwise said this way – this law does not apply to objects which, within the meaning of this law, are regarded as military objects, i.e. objects which are considered as mining facilities, buildings and offices in the sense of the law governing mining. We predicted that after the words "war facilities" we add the words "as well as to objects considered to be of strategic importance to the security of the Republic of Serbia in terms of other regulations". In the explanation we received, it is said to be in Article 1. The law on planning and construction under paragraph 2 is specified that the provisions of that law do not apply to military and mining facilities, since it is prescribed that military and mining facilities may not be subject to military and mining law in order to establish analogy with material regulations. We totally agree with that. But you further say, too, the notion of objects of strategic importance for the security of the Republic of Serbia is not defined by any special law, and its introduction into the bill could lead to different interpretations in application. We do not even claim that there is a special law that defines objects of particular strategic importance for the Republic of Serbia, but I assume that among these facilities there will be objects that are defined in, say, energy spheres, traffic, possibly MUP. We've been thinking about these objects, and I'm asking you once again to consider and adopt this amendment of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39783	The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39784	This is one of the two most important amendments to us, and this is to Article 5 and the one that defines the new member 46. This article clearly defines which objects cannot be legalised in the first position, but in the second and third paragraphs, this whole solution is relativated, so as to state that they cannot be legalised objects built on land that are unfavourable for construction or those built in protected zones. There are famous cottages. In paragraph 2, it says – that, exceptionally from the provision 1st item 1), this can still be legalised if some evidence is brought that what was built on the slide is stable, so it states what evidence is, among other things, "other evidence". This "other evidence" is probably with two witnesses or, I don't know, with the chairman of a party's local committee to guarantee it, and in the 3rd position, it is a ban to legalise what is in national good, but to say – if the manager of that public good permit, he can. It's corruption a couple of excellencies. In an explanation of why this section, concerning the rink, is rejected, the proposer did not want to take into account our argument at all, but only deals with the fact that the public goods manager in the process at the request, etc., makes his decision, or refuses to give consent to the legislation, thereby avoiding arbitration. Exactly what you have stated is evidence of arbitration. Therefore, respect these amendments, save the value of this law. If these two attitudes are deleted, this law makes sense, without it, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39785	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39786	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 5 which regulates which objects cannot be subject to legislation. First of all, we have suggested that, in the position of Article 5(1), the word “wetland” should be placed on the ground and they add the words “sandland, ” since we believe that sandland should also be mentioned in the enumerating of unmatched land. This may seem significant and close to me because I come from Vojvodina, from Vrsac, we are close to the Deliblat pedestrian, and I am a little familiar with the problems that can arise on that soil and we felt that we should also specify sandland. Further in point 2) after the word "sustainability" is put into place and add the words "unless the object is built of natural materials and intended for tourism and culture, ethno house and the like". We have put an intervention on this point 2) with the aim of enabling the law of those objects that are built out of materials that do not provide sustainability, but the purpose of these objects is in the function of tourism, for example for the sake of an ethic house, or have cultural significance, such as replicas of objects from the historical past that enrich our country's tourist offer and cultural historical content. Furthermore, we have suggested that, in point 2 after the word "engineering and ideological reports" be put to the point and the rest of the sentence to be deleted. Article 2 is prescribed that the new Member's decision on the law enforcement may be issued exclusively from the provision of Article 1(1) of the new member, provided that appropriate evidence is drawn up in the procedure that the facility is stable, does not endanger the stability of the terrain and adjacent objects, and that the stability of the facility and the threat of the stability of the terrain and adjacent objects is determined on the basis of the report, graphic contributions of the plan document with marked surfaces of the ground which are not eligible for the construction and engineering-ideological reports and other evidence on the basis of which this fact can be established. The wording ‘corresponding evidence and other evidence on the basis of which this fact can be established’ is very general. It opens up possibilities for different interpretations and creates a risk of corruption, and for this reason we propose that those words be deleted. In addition, we propose to delete Article 3 which requires that, exclusively from the provision of Article 1(3) and (4) of this Article, the competent authority may issue a solution to the legislation if consent of the public goods manager, i.e. the consent of the organisation responsible for the protection of natural, or cultural goods, is obtained. This provision, in our opinion, is very imprecise, since it does not provide for criteria for the conduct of public goods managers, i.e. an organisation responsible for the protection of natural, or cultural goods, thus giving public authorities broad discretion and because of this inaccuracy, there can also be different interpretations and the opening of the risk of corruption. Article 5(5) The draft law stipulates that, exclusively from the provision in Article 1, if, by the lawfulness of a solution which rejects a legalisation request, an amended design document or a request has been rejected for reasons otherwise prescribed by this law, which are more favourable for the owner of an illegally built facility, the competent authority shall establish this fact and continue the legal process. This exception is so formulated, in our opinion, that it opens up space for different interpretations and interpretations, which would create huge problems when the law is applied, so we suggested erasure. I urge you once again to consider this amendment of ours. He's been rejected. The reasons are mainly, except for Section 1, as well as for the previous amendment explained by counterpart Zivkovic, but since in the pre-election campaign and now during this period, when you exercise power, you have repeatedly appealed to the fight against corruption, we suggest that this amendment reduce the possibility of corrupt behaviour.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39787	The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. The word is made by MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39788	In the media recently, a text came out on the demolition, just now, of a cottage in the protection zone. Why is this precisely done at this time now and several days after it will allow legalization of cottages in certain areas of protection? Does this mean that the cottages will be brought down to the citizens, and after the adoption of this bill, that is, this very Article 1st point 4) that will allow some people who were in power, or once or some who are now in power, or those who have had the privilege of building on these attractive and forbidden locations, without fear of consequences? Also, we believe that this member is contrary to Article 35. The Nature Protection Act. For these reasons, we have just suggested that, in Article 5, point 4 point 4 of the bracket where it stands - except for the cottage and other facilities, it is placed - including cottages and other holiday facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39789	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Dejan Chapo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 5th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39790	Dear citizens of Serbia, this Article 5 has been subject to public analysis these days, and we have talked a lot about it in principle debate and reconciliation - which is why the draft, or public debate, awarely avoided this term and this option to not mention in Article 5 of the 4th item the cottages and other family facilities, and then to ask, when we get the law to consider these terms, to open a very serious and large public debate, which implies that questions are being asked - does this mean that certain objects will be in a stream of rivers, in accumulations, etc. be torn down or not, or is this just an introduction that certain powerful people in Serbia are protected and that their facilities that were built and built in an illegal manner are legalized? It is obvious that both Mr Babic and Mrs Minister and everyone else, colleagues here in the assembly have chosen the option not to talk about this, not to have a debate, that there is no problem opening up the problem so as little comment on this topic. But I must say, Your Honor, the Minister, that the public has rightly opened this topic, especially since you have, in your position 6, explained very unwisely and explained the procedure relating to the issuing of the consent of the manager, in these cases, public enterprises, institutions, associations of citizens, etc. So there is no clear procedure to issue consent from these institutions to natural persons, but in any case you have opened this possibility of being very transparent, i.e. at a small door, introducing corruption into these procedures, getting papers, getting the laws of objects that are truly inadmissible, illegally built. Here, below this item 4, also, after your statements that you had these days in public and you said -- it would be only allowed in the second zone, so we predicted that it would only be a ban on springs, water supply, etc. So, in your explanation of this point 4 we also got very unmistakable answers and the other questions -- what are the cases when these cottages and houses will be legalized? I have listened well to your statements in the media these days and the right to tell you, I have not received adequate answers to these questions. For the best part, you know how much you and I have been in duels and related to this battery problem Vrutca, when the City of Užice ran out of drinking water, because of the appearance of algae, two and a half years ago and you know well what problems the citizens of Užica have about all of this and what statements you have made about this problem. I must remind you that it was your government, i.e. the previous Government, in 2012, in the area of accumulation of Lake Vrutci, where the City of Užice was supplied with water, or water, that your Government in 2012 issued solutions on the legalisation of illegally raised facilities in the first zone of sanitary protection, even though it was against the law at that time. How can we now believe that by adopting this law, in this way, you will take care of the interests of citizens who, for example, are supplied with the accumulation of water supply, etc. in some cities in Serbia? How in this way will you, although you have had the practice of legalising objects to the Minister's solutions, contrary to the law, against the views of the city's administrations, against the opinions of public enterprises and thus directly endangering not only the law but also the citizens of Užica, how will you now, in the next period when you open a small door, be able to strengthen such objects, take care of the health and safety of Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39791	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39792	I thank the chairman. I just couldn't leave it out there like this because there were lies being told. As with SNS headquarters in Uzic, the government has never granted construction permits in the first zone of protection of Lake Vrutci. What this government did was remove objects that were set up, whether temporary or any other, and they were not allowed to be placed near the battery, and at the time when the DS was in power. What was then misused is that possibility of building small temporary fishing facilities, which later became much larger, even at some point even sold as cottages. In any case, of course, that's the problem and what they're going to be dealing with, there are laws that will clearly define what the zone of protection is to be built in, and there is now in the draft and the law on nature protection and environmental protection, which will accurately and precisely specify what is in the first, second and third zone of protection. We recently passed the National Parks Act, where it is made clear that the first zone of protection cannot, could never and will never be granted building permits. There are also certain protections in the second zone, the third is mostly for construction. What's the fact is that this government will never allow this to go wrong in any way, the laws will of course be on the side of nature and nature conservation. That's what we'll always agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39793	Thank you. The word has the magistrate Jovan Marković, after the amendment You don't have the right to a replica, you're not mentioned. [[Jovan Marković, from the city: Reporting for replica.]] (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Replication to my presentation. ) Mr Markovic, please, any MP can now come forward and say my presentation has been mentioned. So you must be mentioned in a negative context, mentioned your name and last name. (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica, mentioned party. Please, just with Mr. Markovic to clear up. It has to be the name and last name of that moment, I'm not even saying it has to be in a negative context, but as soon as it's mentioned I'll give you the right to the replica. Without it, you have no right. The word has a national MP, Natasa Vuckovic, on the amendment. (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica. Why? Is she mentioned in DS? Mrs Stojiljkovic, did you mention DS? Here you go. I'm sorry, maybe I didn't hear. If you say so, I believe the DS was mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39794	I don't think the co-worker is familiar with the decisions of Minister Velimir Ilic since 6 November 2012 which have been annulled solutions to the destruction of objects issued by local authorities at the time of the mayor's appointment of Jovan Markovic. During the time Jovan Markovic was mayor, a procedure was launched to tear down and remove dozens of objects. Every year, the action to clean up the lake under the "Let's Clean Serbia" action has been spent hundreds of thousands of dinars, etc. So you're saying something that's arbitrary and that doesn't fit the real state of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39795	I must ask Mrs. Vuckovic, because even today in some presentation, you also said in the replica that in a negative context, MP Marijan Rističević insulted the MP. I took a rock note, and I didn't find that sentence you mentioned anywhere. Just so it's public knowledge. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39796	Just one little dyspression, Mr. Chairman, to previous exposure. I have no doubt that one mayor, and now the MP has launched an initiative to bring down and that solutions have been issued. But I would respond to the remarks of my colleague, the distinguished colleague Vukkovic, that, behold, he did a great job and did a good job of doing his job because he got all 10 solutions. Well, we heard here a few days ago from Mr. Markovic that there are tens of thousands of illegal objects in the town of Uzic and you say it's good when ten illegal objects are brought ten solutions a year to remove and destroy. Mrs. Vuchkovic, that's one promil where I can do the same math that you showed someone good at doing their job, I could say that he was just one prominence to be the good mayor of Užica. Besides, I don't have to talk about it. This is much better spoken by the citizens of Užica who showed their opinion and said it in the 2012 elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39797	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic and Natasa Vukkovic, from the place: Replica. Please just wait till you get the word. Before that, there is a replica to your presentation, Ms. Stoiljkovic, Mrs. Vukkovic, because she was mentioned by her name and last name, and only then you to Mr. Babic's exposure. (Jovan Markovic, from the site: Not mentioned. ) If you say she didn't, she commented on her presentation and mentioned Miss Stoiljkovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the site: not mentioned at all. You gave me no word on the same basis. ) She mentioned Miss Stoiljkovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: it's amazing what you're doing. It's amazing what you're doing to Mr. Markovic. It's really amazing what you're doing. You get up all the time, you throw it all the time. I can accept that I was once wrong and sometimes I didn't hear something good and I always check it in the rock notes, as Mrs Vučkovic said at Mr Veckovic's statement when Mr Rističević said he was insulting the MP, and I can't find a single word here that was spoken in that direction and what Mrs Vučković said. So I have to check it out. In this case, she was entitled to a replica. If you say it isn't, I'll check it out, too. If her name isn't mentioned, I'll apologize to you. You have a word. You got your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39798	I thank the chairman. I just want to look back at the finding that I don't know what's going on in Uzica. I'd just mention that I'm coming from Uzic and I know very well what happens at the time of the entire hawaria and the incident with our lake. I was directly involved in solving problems, and today I stayed. What I'm sorry about is that we're still dealing with our Roses. Whoever's responsible is probably gonna make a decision about it. Now it's time to deal with how to solve our problem. What's a fact is that it's not simply brought out when these objects have been built for which solutions have been made. That's what we're interested in, what period they were built in. Was it during the SNS government, which I don't believe, because after that we came to power in Uzic. So anyway, we don't have that kind of responsibility and we have the right to look into the eyes and say that someone is responsible for it. Anyway, I want to say that even these millions mentioned by my colleague, 65 million dinars are at stake, 30 million are true, went into the reconstruction of the dam that was then cracked, and that's settled, and in 35 million months and years we've been wondering where they went, because at that point, I'm sure that the money was invested correctly in cleaning up the battery of the Vrutca so that we wouldn't get to this problem now, because the multiple less money this government has singled out to make an alternative water line from Sushiki source to Užica. So I'm simply asking you to focus on solving the problem. Of course, this government must not and will not, and I would like it firmly to be promised that everyone will not allow the building to be built and that the law in the protection zones will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39799	Thank you, Mrs. Stoiljkovic. If I find in the notes that no name and last name of Mrs Stoiljkovic has been mentioned, time will be taken from the parliamentary group, the two minutes. Here you are, MP Jovan Markovic at the presentation of Mr Babic. Replica two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39800	Dear Mr. Chairman, I most kindly ask you to explain to Mr. Babic once or to instruct him to inform him that I, along with my associates and DS, received over 30% of the support of the people in Uzic three years ago. After all we've done in those four years, the citizens have said their word and we've won those elections, but then they're a matchmaking, composing, etc. They came to the conclusion that they should appoint one mayor, and then translate another man from another party and make him mayor, so they replace these people and people laugh at Uzica as much as you do with power in Užica. You here, Mr. Babić, when you are very reluctant to replace the the thesis and the problem of about 10,000 legalized legalisation requests with ten solutions to the collapse of Lake Vrutci, you are talking about exactly how badly you have prepared for this debate and how much you do not actually rule over the information that is related to this very important issue. So, instead of saying why you put in Article 4 of point 5 of the solution that cottages and houses are supposed to be built in areas of origin, in areas of accumulation, in naturally protected zones and thus legalizing something that has never been legalized in this country, you start talking about something that you know very little about. So, my intention is that, right through the solutions to the collapse, we arrange that battery, was to prevent a major disaster, and you, or this government three years ago, were directly overruling the mayor's solutions and the local administration's solutions, thereby questioning the safety and health of the people, and then the minister includes me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39801	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39802	... If I was stealing... on Lake Vrutca... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39803	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: And of course that was the reason... It's a replacement thesis. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic. Replication to Mr. Markovic's presentation. He's mentioned by name and last name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39804	Whenever someone doesn't have a good enough and strong argument he starts to stand up and wave his hands here, Rulesman, I don't know what he's talking about outside the agenda, to talk about what a man asks him and doesn't ask, and that's the legitimate right of every MP. I don't see any reason to be so nervous. We saw how my distinguished colleague Ivana Stoiljkovic from Užica was very argumentative, quietly, politely, then when she got the talk about those problems, but also about solutions for the town of Užice. What's a much bigger problem is when someone who doesn't have an argument, and yet has no support for the citizens of Užica, then starts with these insults – an unmistakable explanation, you haven't prepared yourself, matches, like this. Please, Mr. Becic, if anyone wants to bring in a spirit of primitiveism here, it's his right. That is what Serbian citizens best estimate, but you are obliged to keep this spirit primitive, to lock the doors of the National Assembly and completely our society for this spirit of primitiveism. Someone who did not prepare well for this session clearly could not see my amendment to the same member and to a better clarification of what he should, what he should not, and what objects and of course no buildings in the First Zone of Protection, but someone who did not read or who did not want to read or who did not want to interpret, then we will get such a debate that I do not think the National Assembly deserves such a debate, and Serbian citizens do not deserve such representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39805	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. What makes you think that? You didn't mention it at all. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: The man was talking about my presentation. Not your name and name mentioned sir. (Jovan Markovic, throws out of place. ) It was given on the basis of mentioning her name, as you have received earlier when you were mentioned, as Mr Babic has now received since he was mentioned. On the basis of me interpreting whether someone in his presentation thought about someone's exposure and whether or not the exposure mentioned it, I can't do it. Especially if it's not in a negative context. Thank you. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I do the amendment? We have now moved on to the next amendment. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39806	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have already talked about this problem in the opening statement and, to be honest, I can welcome, on the one hand, the Minister, who submitted Mr Babic, who had just spoken, who had made it clear, i.e. the possibility of exceptions, i.e. legalisation or legislation of objects in the parts of our country that are under special protection. What my question is, why did I answer the word, is exactly why one law that we can really have a good solution, with certain exceptions, such as this one here, is really making a law that won't do any good. My amendment, which I have submitted, is that simply what you have written, Madam Minister, that it cannot be built, that the object cannot be mutilated, it remains that way. It's simple, to erase all exceptions from the law. It is true that the amendment has eased the relationship, with fewer exceptions, but I really do not see the need why you, when you have legalized or legalized the facilities that are located and in the second degree of protection of natural goods or cultural goods. I would especially like to point out that I believe this is also the case for the illegality of Serbian citizens. Those who have an object, they will legalize it, have a cottage or a family house in such a place, and someone who submits a request will not be able to get a regular permit, because it is not intended for construction in a regular procedure. I think that this article, as it is written with such an exception, will certainly be the subject of a debate before the Constitutional Court, because you cannot create inequality among citizens. Whoever built the wild, he can have a cottage, if he didn't do it, he can never get a permit. I repeat once again, I ask you to really consider adopting the amendment and that this law as you have written be perfectly clear, without any exception, because I think it is fairer and fairer and towards those who have built and those whom you plan to build in both legal and illegal ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39807	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39808	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister, co-workers and colleagues, is very interesting to listen to the debate in which previous regimes, previous authorities sit and watch something happen in protected areas, no buildings, are being built, and now someone after them should come and what was done in the sight of all the ruins. There are some facilities in different areas of protection that are older than the protection zones themselves. For example, I have here an e-mail that came today from one of the "West Morava" Citizens' Association, which on Lake Ovcar Banja in Medvršje made some weekend houses and houses for housing, and which are older, some of them, 480 have a total, one large part of the facilities that were built before the declaration of the clisure for the area of exceptional qualities. There's a lot of places like that. You really can't go into frontal collapse right now. Are those who maintain these houses on the coast of the lake more polluters than the town of Užica, I say Užice because it is upriver in the waterway, or Ivanjica or Požega or all those cities from which the sewerage of complete cities goes to the same river, West Morava, without any purification? Are the major polluters of the people in the Gerdap ravine from the very city of Belgrade that has 2.5 million inhabitants? To wash only the hands of all the Belgraders during one day will be greater polluters than all those houses, weekend houses that are downstream in the Danube. So it's really easiest to tell someone who is now, in the image of this government, ready to try to solve the problem that he inherited from the past, that he needs to do something by what they didn't do before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39809	Thank you. Madam Minister, do you want a word? The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39810	Let me just add to Reverend Home. If we did that, as you say now, and removed all the exceptions, then you know what? Then we can also not have the Law of Law, go back to the existing one, and that what I said at the beginning, we observe all illegally built objects, or those who did it to get criminal charges and put them in jail. We have to have certain things where we have to make a certain kind of deviation and certain exceptions, and that's clear to everyone. An example exactly, that's the example I was going to say, but the example you've heard now is one of the reasons why we left in the second degree of protection. The terminology of the law, once again, is the termology of the Nature Protection Act. So, I think this law, as I said, is partly just and trying to solve the problem of the other 1.5 million people who have built and for objective reasons, but also put us in a position to have so many illegally built objects, and we have to solve that, there's no third solution, I don't think there is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39811	Thank you, Madam Minister. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national letter from Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39812	Mr. Chairman, I'm using the time of my authorised representative. The colleague Gordana Komić submitted the following amendment to Article 5, which provides that the legislation is not allowed in the following cases – when the facility is constructed, or reconstructed in respect of the purpose and subsistence of the facility, as well as the distances from the adjacent objects, contrary to the conditions prescribed by the draft document or the provisions of the Regulations on general rules for the lotion, regulation and construction, and if built, or reconstructed, so that the height of the facility is greater than the height prescribed by the provisions of the General Conditions on parcelation, etc. We think that it is of great importance that this amendment is and that it should be prevented, to disable the law of objects that are illegally built in this way, because, first of all, it is done, almost as a rule, about high objects, higher objects. So they're not housing houses built by a citizen for themselves, they're usually larger floors for the market. It's about investors, various business people who counted on building above the rules, past the law, to get legislation one day. If we do not adopt this amendment, we will actually give the green light to continue a similar practice in the future. I repeat, the DS advocates that the improved illegal construction of all those whose housing is resolved by building houses from 60 to 100 square meters, but does not accept this amendment means encouraging the same practice in the future. A very large number of citizens, especially in large cities, who have built under the law, who have obtained permits, which have respected rules, urban conditions, etc., have been threatened and the value of their property has been threatened by very often illegal construction in their immediate surroundings. So they acted according to the law, they built according to the rules, and those who didn't now will get the law of high-level, high-rise objects and thus actually allow the property of those who built according to the law to lose value. A very large number of citizens have been injured by this practice and their interests have been injured and we think that if we adopt this amendment, Col. Komic, we would protect the equal rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39813	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39814	I thank the chairman. In view of the access to this Article 5. The bill, we've heard several analytical thesis, and they're all aimed at preventing the violation of the ban on discrimination, in fact not putting one in an overprivileged position, and the other discriminating. Between what was proposed to eliminate all exceptions and to accept such a proposal, we supported you in principle, because indeed, if all exceptions were eliminated then the essence of this law would be unthinked. However, I have to ask one question, because, I'm afraid, in practice, there will be serious problems if this attitude, the final position of Article 5, is maintained. What's this about? It's just that we have a legal solution here that rejects the legalization requirement. Legally means that the first-degree application was rejected, Nedjo Jovanovic complained to the second-degree body, Neđje's appeal was rejected. He started someone's administrative dispute with an administrative lawsuit. The administrative court said – your lawsuit was not founded and confirmed both, first-degree and second-degree solutions. Here we now have a situation to say - even though I have been legally rejected, which is my procedure legally terminated, that in the event that the plan document is changed, which is not disputed, or if the request has been rejected for reasons otherwise prescribed by this law, which are more favourable for Nedja Jovanovic, then the competent authority will only establish this fact and continue the procedure under the provisions of this law. The Honorable Secretary of State, we had dozens, hundreds of thousands, you said a million and 500, but the question is how many of these situations are there. How will someone, without the demands of Neđo Jovanivić, be able to determine this situation? How will it happen without my address to the competent authority that someone realizes that there are more favourable conditions for me than they were in the applicable law at that time? Without my address, it is not possible, because the competent authority in a huge mass of such situations will simply overlook Nedjo Jovanovic, and we know that this whole law is based on the conduct of an exoficio, i.e. on official duty. In one of the positions of this law, it clearly stands out -- when the building inspector brings a solution to the collapse and delivers it, that's when the legal process begins. Where am I like a party here? How will the organ recognize that the conditions of the law are more favourable to me now than they were five years ago? I ask you to keep in mind that this will cause problems, and not small problems. I think that, if not otherwise, the resolution committee should react with the amendment so that at least this position of Article 5 is corrected and in practice the full effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39815	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39816	Just so there's no confusion. Thus, such a facility will register the building inspection quite safely and after that take statements under the right of official duty and work on it. So it's not impossible what you're saying right now, but it has to be written down for sure, which is already the first step towards everything else. The organ runs the procedure after that, it's normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39817	National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov submitted the 5th amendment together. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39818	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a member of the law that the ruling majority avoids debate, since this is a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia that puts all citizens in an unequal position who will not be able to legalise their facilities, and hundreds of thousands of them are. On the other hand, the sons of the President of the Republic will be able to legalise their own cottages that are allegedly in a protected zone. Only they'll be able to do it, and everyone else won't be able to do it. Only "Savanova" will be able to legalise with the Sava amphitheater, a famous bar, and there was supposed to be some promotion stand, but other citizens will not be able to get legalisation in the area. Moreover, they were torn down there by houses where they lived for dozens and dozens of years. We had the chance to hear from Mrs. Mihajlovic now that this is a partially just solution. I'm asking what kind of partial justice is that? Either it's just or it's unfair. Because of your partial justice, hundreds of thousands of people will be denied. And the tycoons on Zlatibor, what about them? What about "King's Ends", Mrs. Mihajlovic? What about the Zlatibor PKK, Mrs. Mihajlovic? Is that a partial justice, that tycoons can do anything and Serbian citizens can't do anything? Because of this partial justice of yours, we have submitted this amendment, because there is no partial justice. In your partial justice, you're saving someone millions and millions of euros and someone's fat money for this bill. Think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39819	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39820	Thank you, Your Honor. I've been listening very carefully to all this. I don't know if you understand anything. On the one hand, tycoons are mentioned, and on the other hand hundreds of thousands of citizens. He says their houses are down. We couldn't connect anything here. This is about legislation, allowing people to legalize their facilities. That's what people have been waiting for for for 20 or 30 years. I remember, as I came from the Palilu municipality, there were siats of the same party's stands, where before each election they offered a solution for legalisation, to win elections and, of course, after the election they never dealt with the topic again. They were dealing with other topics and things, and here we can read these days in the media, for example. What's it look like? When you say - their houses are torn down there, where is it, excuse me? The Sava amphitheater and that move down there that was cleaned up after 70 years, where no stone has been moved, where we've had 50 wrecks of old ships, inhumane conditions for life, the acquisition of drug abuse by people who've been lurking around in those wrecks and sheds, houses, we don't know what to call it, and today these people have the basic conditions of life that the state has provided for them. You weren't into them, and you weren't interested in them at all. You're talking about tycoons. Well, I would remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of Belgrade, of one big affair in the Democratic Party, which is an affair, as we then called it, K1-K2, which is Slavija, where you transferred from an extra zone to another area, where the state lost tens of millions of euros so that you could enable these very tycoons you're talking about to build and build and to build their buildings in downtown Belgrade, like they're doing it in Sremčica or I don't know what suburban town you're in. How can you not be ashamed? You always want to auto-project some things and you've done it in asking a parliamentary question today, and it's tightly related to this, Mr. Chairman. You're saying that someone in the PKK wants a country to alienate or, what you said, to take you away from neither I know where, and I'm going to remind you that the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2011, the president of the same country was Mirko Cvetkovic, made it possible and agreed on a proposal from a man. I don't know if you have his number, you can invite him to ask him because you've been working closely, and that's Dragan Gilas. On his proposal, the government allowed the land to be registered to the PKK. So it was done during the Democratic Party and people need to know, the Honorable Chairman. Today they're great fighters and they're fighting what they adopted. Imagine the contradiction, that when you're in power, you put on a sock, and when you go into opposition, then you dress up in white and offer well-being, honesty, and I don't know what, which doesn't exactly look like it, and it's not natural when they come out of your mouth that kind of word. I would like to stress that you have made it possible in any way possible to build illegally in Belgrade and in all of Serbia. And I repeat again, and that's what I said when we discussed in principle, it's not exactly what you promised, there's a lot of people who were collecting a block by block to make a roof over their heads, because they came from the former Yugoslavia's space, they ran away from the war. But there are also those who are rich today based on your local officials who allow them and have the protection of certain local tycoons, and we will soon find out who they are, that when you put the red ribbon you can also build under the red ribbon, under the yellow strip, under both colors, and under yellow and red, for example, on Palilla. I guess that's an example that can be seen in other municipalities. Please don't talk about any legalization or legislation. Well, you built a bridge on Ada that doesn't have one single piece of paper, and you had all the power in this country. Five hundred million euros you spent, the bridge is called "three in one". We don't mind building bridges. We need dozens of bridges, tunnels, but don't rob and don't say now that you didn't, when we all know you did. The bridge you overpaid three times is more expensive than the estimated price, there's not one single piece of paper. That's how you behaved in this country. That's how you behave in municipalities where you have authority, and that's where I call on all state authorities to respond. Why? Well, are they so strong that they can do whatever they want and no one can do anything to them? Well, they can, well, they can. They can call whoever they want, but there's gonna be a time when people will know what they're doing outside their door. You've made it possible for them, and now you're propagating some honesty, propagating honesty, and everything you've touched in this country you've successfully destroyed, we're trying to lift it. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic is trying to bring down what you've done for 15 years to slowly lift and lift, to have a strong economically developed country, and we're going to help him. But unfortunately, it's very hard to hear from you that you're talking about fighting corruption because you started it in this country, you created it, and in some municipalities you've maintained it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39821	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr Bozovicu, the replica can only be obtained by Mrs Vukkovic because the DS is mentioned. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: He mentioned my name. Not for a moment, I listened very carefully, just because Mr. Jovicic... Mr. Bozovic, please don't. I know there's a rule for Mr. Jovicic to mention you, so I listened very carefully, he mentioned DS, and even all the time the exposure was telling Mr. Chairman, that I was scared of so many things that... (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What he was saying, mentioned me. ) Mr Bozovic, he never once mentioned your name and name. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Yes. I understand that you're used to him talking all the time, so even in this case, you thought he mentioned you, but unfortunately, he didn't. I'd give you a lot if he mentioned your name and name. If Mrs. Vukkovic wants to talk about the DS, I'll give her a replica. You can see for yourself that I don't care if he gave his word to you or to Mrs. Vuchkovic, but I must respect the Rules of Procedure. It's mentioned DS and Mrs. Vuckovic's right, you don't, unfortunately. Thank you. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? The promoter is not present. Mr. Risticevic, you want to follow this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39822	Of course, Mr. Chairman. This says enough about the quality of the amendment. What I want to draw your attention to is that in the future when these amendments are proposed that all the messy amendments are rejected and that you recommend it to the committees in charge, since I believe that this amendment is not only unserious, but is not regulated. The amendments can be proposed by the MPs, as well as by the laws, by the Government, by the committees, by any association of citizens, no matter how turned, cannot be the amendment's proposings, and this amendment, both in its title and in its signature, is signed with one association of citizens. Its right, if it wishes, to be signed as "a woman in black", but we should reject such an amendment. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure should also be respected, and when it comes to a professor of law, a team before his obligation is greater to teach orderly amendments, not only to teach them but also to be present when they need to defend themselves, rather than to run from time to time in the O.R. Here, I think I've now allowed him to come to defend his amendment, since the moment he was supposed to defend the amendment was not at all present. Please draw attention to the committees in charge in the future that any messy amendments, whether they were written by doctors of rights or farmers like me, are rejected. With that in mind, I'm concerned about the knowledge of the students he teaches law to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39823	Thank you. The amendment is proposed by Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39824	Thank you for your concern for both my health and the Turnover Movement. Tonight we are forming the City Committee of the Turnover Movement in Belgrade. This amendment concerns Articles 5 and 5, and I have proposed that Articles 2 and 3 be deleted and Articles 4 and 5 become Articles 2 and 3. This is essentially a fundamental lack of this law, in addition to the fact that it is essentially a fraud because it does not mean legalisation, but a registration of real estate for tax purposes, this law allows legalisation of buildings built, or reconstructed on land unfavourable for building, for example, on a rink. It says – if this facility is found to be stable, then it should be decided that this rink is no longer a rink. If a stable object can be built on a landslide, it's not a rink. On the other hand, this law allows the establishment to be legalised in areas of public purpose, for public use facilities and this member to legalise facilities that have been built, family houses and cottages in areas of special degree of protection, first and second degree of protection. So there are, of course, the house of the Nikolic family and all those other SNS officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39825	Time. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: I answered neatly. I can't wait, Mr. Veselinovic, for you to answer. Here you go, Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39826	Don't rush, Chairman. Every moment of the application of this law means damage to the citizens of Serbia, i.e. the benefit of those who have built facilities in places where it is prohibited, and you are allowing these objects to be legalized by this law. In Article 6(4), which I have proposed to delete, the same thing again – objects for which no legalisation application has been submitted, according to the previous Law on Legalisation, are legalised. The Turnover Movement strongly opposes the legalization of buildings built or built after the adoption of the last Law on Legalisation. Why? Because it was you, gentlemen, that made it possible for Mrs. Mihajlovic, in the meantime, after the law was passed, to build illegal facilities. You say now – you will legalize all those objects that are recorded from the aircraft that exist on the ground. Well, you bring in legal uncertainty, bring in legal uncertainty. Any one, therefore, who thinks about making illegal objects again in agreement with someone in power, will be brought back such a harmful law, this facility will be legalized. This creates legal uncertainty, creating inequality between Serbian citizens, which is particularly suited to this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39827	Time. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39828	I am completely surprised by your incredible struggle to help the citizens of Serbia. A million and a half illegally built objects were created, to remind again, during your reign. However, I no longer know which parties, from one party to the other party, were in the third party, as you had already divided, but however, at that time when these facilities were created, you were in power and that heartlessness not to help the citizens of Serbia, and there are a million and a half of which were often and most often objective reasons impossible to obtain their building permits because during your authorities it was 300 days on average and more. So this law helps Serbian citizens to sharpen their facilities, to have their own paper, to be entered into the cadastre, to be able to pass it on to their children, to be able to live normally and to be all arranged. That makes this law possible. What you stand for, unfortunately, is everything that existed in the previous period, which is to continue to be built illegally. This government won't do it. This government is establishing order. We've passed the Planning Act, we've passed this law, we've passed the Law of Conversion and we've arranged construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39829	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39830	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I urge, ladies and gentlemen, that this amendment be not supported and express my own surprise that not so much energy is spent by those who suggest certain things, that at least look at one brief and very concise answer received by the promoter. If he had done so, I am convinced, a lot of what would have been clearer here, and above all what we heard earlier during the oral explanation of the amendment, and unfortunately there is only one more detail in support of the general assessment of how much indifference some here are dealing with this debate, dealing with their own proposals, especially those messages they want to send. Unfortunately, it's not the first time and unfortunately it's not the first time today. In principle, what was coming from that direction of the hall was literally drowned today in that spirit of unseriousness and superficiality. I'll certainly try to have an economic relationship with time, I'm looking to give one joint grade, for example now, for all the opportunities we've had so far to hear, and it came from those lines there. If he had looked at the content of this member himself, even if he had missed it, if we had looked at the content of the argument himself, he would have noticed that something like this absolutely couldn't be adopted. This position, if deleted, would lose the basis for address that position in one and the other attitudes that are in the electoral text after it. This, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely not working like this and from there my assessment of that unserious and superficial relationship, and to it I would add another, to the chronic lack of feeling, the need to respect the truth when speaking to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that may be for the greatest concern today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39831	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39832	I would like to suggest that this amendment be rejected. For the sake of truth, I would just like to remind the citizens of one truth in Novi Sad, where the city government from 2008 to 2012 did not take care of the legality and the paper trail, at all, necessary for the construction of infrastructure projects. Many projects here could be listed in the City of Novi Sad, for which absolute city authority did not have the necessary documentation, but it was important to transfer advances to various "borovica", "neborovica", which the minister knows very well what problems we had when we came to power in Novi Sad in 2012 and today we suffer these consequences. So, what I'm saying is that if the government in Novi Sad, then showing citizens that it can be built without paper, done, and especially what is important is essential infrastructure projects that need, I mean, first of all, the planning documentation to know what is done, how much is cost based on projects, and then only then to pay for the stages, it was important to transfer the advance money "borovici" 400 and something million and not to count etc. In any case, this law is good and it wants our citizens, which most of them have created a roof over their heads, decades, and this government has recognized that it wants to solve the life problems of many citizens. Once it had to be cut off and precisely courage shows this government that such life-forms were solved and that finally the people and the people who had their roof over their heads had become tormented, coming from the ends of the war and all that was happening in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, found refuge in our Serbia and indeed once and for all to solve this problem. On the other hand, by legalising the facilities, we will finally also be able to get income into the budget, and how to increase, not by legalising, but certainly by paying taxes, if all decent citizens of Serbia know that they should pay and pay taxes, which is reflected in the previous period, in the last three years, that there is also an increased number of tax payments, excise taxes, etc. which refers to one relationship with the state and one relationship between the government and the state. All of us, unless we're guarding our country, and it's this law that shows, on the one hand, interest in citizens, and on the other hand, interest in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39833	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39834	Ladies and gentlemen, simply this amendment places about 700, 800 thousand people who have so far failed to apply for legalisation in the situation that they cannot access legalisation. I honestly don't know when the last satellite footage was made based on which one of them might possibly be able to access the legalisation process, but probably for a large number of them, it would be impossible for the legalisation process to be carried out at all, because the basis and condition for that is, as I said, satellite footage, because they haven't applied for legalisation so far, according to the old laws. According to the law, the government has provided information that so far there are about 770,000 people who have applied for it and that there are about a million and a half illegal facilities. It's a simple bill. So backwards are kind of unthinking this law, and as I said, the law is being passed at this point so that all the problems we've had so far would be put in place, finished, or legalized by all the objects. Therefore, there is no reason to return to 2014, 2013 or any year, and to put what has been done under the rug or leave to some future governments or some future generations to solve these problems. The goal is to solve everything we have so far, to go after it with the serious application of the Law on Planning and Construction, and that these problems as little as possible, it is difficult to say that we will not have them, because unfortunately this relationship with the state is not particularly strong with us. When we're supposed to expect something from the state, we're all strong, we all know what our rights are, but we often get to ignore what's not just the case in this area, maybe it's part of our mentality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39835	Thank you. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. You gave up? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39836	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, despite being moved by the effort to make a lake out of a drop of water, to make a layer of hay out of one grass, and to make three buildings a political movement or party, I am still claiming that such amendments are signed, declared messy and rejected. With that, I suggest that MPs not adopt them because they would be in a position to accept the messy amendments, unsettledly. I am also moved by his discussion and the struggle for the poor, as I think it's about this sudden turn, because in two, three years, a man has changed three political parties and two associations. No matter how much turning I was moved by his struggle for the poor, given that during the former regime's party when he was a member as a child, he was not yet turned around that he was not fighting poverty but were fighting the poor. I am also sure that they shared with the people good and bad by taking good for themselves, and sharing evil with the people. I will take the opportunity to repeat the question to the minister of the well, the legalisation of wells, because it means a lot to us in agriculture, because the EPS won't join us with electricity unless this object is legal and it's a big problem in the country, so I would pray in some future response that because of the people living in the country, we know that they will believe that a well is legalized on agricultural land, or that it will be as a special object, especially legalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39837	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has been given by MP Milan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39838	Thank you. In Article 6(4), we believe that it is necessary to specify the date of the satellite recording in 2015. We put the date here just the last day of 2015, 31.12.2015. We think that it has a double fact, because in this video it can be seen whether there have been additions to certain objects for which the application for legalisation has been filed, of course, after the application has been made. So, the later the video, we still think it's in favor of a better application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39839	Thank you, Mr. Petrich. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39840	Dear citizens of Serbia, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, we have recognised in this Article paragraph 6th paragraph 4 your intention to enter into these matters more actively on the list of immovableities and legislation, but we also believe that this approach that you have offered here is unrealistic and that it will not be possible to implement in practice because of a series of problems. I don't think those who suggested this to you took into account all the problems that arise here about the geodetic administration and the people who work on these jobs. Our proposal was to remove the subject matter of law, an object for which no application for legalisation has been filed, in accordance with the previously applicable law governing the legalisation of the facilities, under the conditions laid down in this law, from this section visible on the satellite footage of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. To put in place a formulation instead - for which an application for the law of the facility will be submitted by 31.12.2015. Many MPs have talked today about all the problems that occur here in these procedures, but what may be most important is that volunteering you're talking about these days. We believe that citizens must be familiar with all the activities of the state regarding their facilities. We believe that, with an adequate explanation and a good media campaign, it is enough for citizens to get involved again in these procedures, in these processes, and that it is enough to leave the deadline until 31.12 this year for them to submit their demands once again. To combine this intention of yours for all those objects that have conditions and which are recorded and exist in orthophoto images of geodetic administrations so that they can be legalized, but those citizens who want to file their applications to be a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39841	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers and Associates, so I think that accepting this amendment might actually be contrary to some of the requirements that we have heard today, which is that this legalisation and discussion of this legalisation that has been going on for several months, that it allows for non-solidity and that at the last minute of the city, and I think that this formulation should remain as it is in the law, since, in fact, we would be in fact contrary to the members of the law, which is that on the day of entry into force of this law, each subsequently built object may be legal. We'd create a space of a month when really everyone would rush to build something and get some satellite footage from the end of the year of some inappropriate image compared to the members of the law prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39843	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39844	I would like to support my colleague, Branko Bosnjak, and I simply do not understand that the previous speaker, a colleague of the DS who I consider to be very rational and very professional, is in one segment of the debate talking about the concern that the implementation of the law itself is now required through the proposal of this amendment to extend, that this law does not take effect the day after its adoption. So I absolutely don't understand what the opposition in this domain wants. If we are to take politics seriously and seriously consider this law, we must be concise and know what we want. The legislator and we here in Parliament and you who have proposed the law, right through the bill we talk about what we want and in what way we want to solve something, and this is about discussions that have a lot of contradiction in them, so I can absolutely say that I don't understand what the essence and point of the criticism of this law is, when one part of the opposition is at stake. Of course, I think this amendment should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39845	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Is your name mentioned, Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: My presentation is. It's not just enough of your exposure. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39846	Thank you. By submitting such an amendment, the MPs who submitted it simply proved that they are actually the ones who want to continue the practice that it has been in Serbia so far compared to the objects that are illegal. As I said in the principle debate, this is a whole new law, a brand-new approach, a brand-new way to solve things. So there are no new legal requirements. This law does not give citizens the will to choose whether or not to legalise objects. Citizens will have to legalize objects and this law allows them to do so. What you've suggested is a re-application of the application, a re-routing of the deadlines. No more, and for that reason, I find one such amendment totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39847	Thank you. Mr Markovic, you must understand that the applicant of the amendment explains why he believes the amendment should be accepted, and someone who opposes the acceptance of the amendment explains why he thinks that the amendment should not be accepted. Everyone has the right to interpret someone's exposure, and if everyone had the right to a replica, we would never have finished one amendment, you have to understand that. So you have to be mentioned in the negative context of the name and last name in order to have the right to the replica. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39848	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that Mr Markovic, in principle, has good intentions to shorten the deadlines, and the goal of all MPs is to get this job done as soon as possible, and on the other hand, it's all fine, a lot of praise. But one thing that is predicted is that if I step into the force of this law ceases to apply the law so far and what my colleague said, no more demands, now by force construction inspection comes out, determines the area. In that area, it records objects, submits crash requests, or a crash warrant. Eventually, commissions are formed to do the job because the job is very demanding, you have to admit it. Expecting, we'd be in fact, this job would have to be done by building inspectors or that commission, not citizens individually. At this point, I don't think that's possible. Even technically only after the adoption of this law will it be necessary to bring in certain forms in which all these will have to be entered. Today is the 18th, 19th of November, in a month, month and a half, expecting construction inspections to finish it, it's very hard to go. I came up with some data from a year ago that there were only about a dozen building inspectors, say at the level of the Republic. Obviously, we have a constant problem with inspection services, and very often it is said that we do not have enough inspectors in many areas, including in this area. That was one of the reasons why this process didn't go any faster and probably why we have this number of illegal objects. With this in mind, there is certainly also a more serious analysis ahead of this government in all areas, whether we can strengthen these inspection services so that we can implement laws, regardless of this Employment Prohibition Act, because it is obvious that this is some higher interest. When you add it all together, the intention to get this job done as soon as possible is government. Certainly, given the criminal provisions that also touch the building inspectors, I think we will have a very quick completion of these jobs and that in the next period, when it comes to legally built buildings, we will be much better than it is so far, or very few of these illegal ones will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39849	Thank you. Do you want to, Mr. Markovic, by amendment? The word is made by Master Jovan Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39850	Dear fellow Members, I expected you to include yourself at least so much to read these proposals that we have made the amendment itself. I don't know if Mrs. Minister's idea came to mind when she was going around highways, highway work, and she was going through helicopter work, overseeing these papers, doing something like this, or was it based on the advice of people who were still involved in the debate here today, but I wanted to say that in practice this is inadmissible, that you should first consult people on the ground, including building inspectors, to include in the debates and all those people who will later apply this, to tell you that this is not applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39851	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39852	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, in short, I guess we didn't get along right here. The essence of our grudges, the grudges I join on my part, is that this proposal completely misses one of the fundamental intentions of this law, completely misses. And what should be one of the most significant results of this proposal, its application in practice, as much as tomorrow, is fully analyzed. I'd say it's about elemental misunderstanding. Otherwise, as for the possibility of the laws being based on good recommendations of reality and profession, I would return us all just for a moment on the day of debate in principle. The profession has been consulted, her opinions have been respected. The profession supports this proposal. When we talk about reality, who, if not proposing this legal solution respects reality in the best possible way? If we don't want to solve a problem that is real, then we can deal with some general stories without any substance, point or message, as some people today keep trying all day. What's the score, I'm asking you? What's the score? To stay in the problem that we're trying to solve, or to solve it once properly and finally. A million and 500 thousand objects, you're just thinking about the order of the size of what we're talking about today, and it's going to be more than clear whether or not we should be dealing with this seriously or in the way that some people keep doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39853	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39854	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. Madam Minister, we come to, I think, the essential points of this law, and I believe that we all want this law to succeed, regardless of today and wandering about the subject, to various political qualifications that I really don't think was the place, but that I wouldn't do the same, to go back to the very text of the law. You yourself said, Madam Minister, that this is the fifth or sixth law, but I forgot, and that none was successful, and not only was it not successful, but it was the fact that there was an increasing and greater number of wild and illegal constructions. We have concluded all together that it is unrelated from who was in power and that for this law, it is a fundamental challenge whether it will succeed in preventing it. What I see, and I mean, you'll agree with me, that the fundamental problem that citizens have always expected so far, and it's proved true, I'm talking about those citizens who want to build past the law, they always say -- no problem, now I'm going to build nice, and I'm sure this or some new government is going to pass a new law. This takes 30 years, and we have given citizens, that part of the citizens who think so, the right. Here, we're passing another law, and there's no result anywhere, or the number of illegal objects is growing and now it's somewhere in a million and a half. That is why I have submitted an amendment that, I believe, depends on the successful application of this law. Do not let people who listen to the debate today and today build wildly and shout – hurry up, they will pass the law in a few days, legalize their facilities, because they use the good will of the government, the compromises the minister has proposed, the good will of all of us. I say, let's do it once, and let's make an injustice, but give them a chance to legalize the facility, at lower prices, whatever the law didn't respect. The Minister announced this law for the last six, seven, eight months. Also someone sat there listening to newspaper announcements and said – great, there's a new law going on, let's build. The bottom line of my amendment is that we don't allow legalisation after January 2014, not that we can't apply for anyone who hasn't filed, let them file a request, there's no problem with who built it before, but the objects that started after 29 January 2014, don't let them get legalized. I think that would be fair and fair, because we're talking about people who, in the vast majority, abuse the announcements of a new law. This doesn't have to be January 29th. I made an undetermined proposal through the amendment, in 2014, because I'm sure there was satellite footage, which was in the first draft of the law, and the ministry proposed some date in 2014. If this were to happen now during this law, it would be clear to those who want to build illegally that if the next law is passed, it could be about procedures, relief, the amount of money we're talking about, which is now more favourable, but no new legalisation deadline will be given. If we give each law a new time limit for legalisation, and now under this law of law, I think this is a fight in which not this government, but no government will ever win. I'm asking you to have a good time. I don't think it's a large number of objects, and I think the message is the essence and that if you apply it and adopt this amendment, you can indeed remain remembered as the minister who did something more serious in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39855	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39856	This is the law of law enforcement and the Law of Legalization. It certainly concerns about a million and a half illegally erected objects. But at the same time, although it is not seen anywhere in the law, this is also the abolization of the state administration, or the part of it that has not taken care of construction in the previous 30, 20, 50, 80 years. We, in addition to the objects that we are trying to introduce into the legal norm, are simultaneously abdicating institutions that were directly and whose superiors we are. This is practically a two-way law, although we do not speak today, in principle and in this problem. It is definitely clear that it must stop this kind of behaviour towards building buildings in the Republic of Serbia. Whether that date is 29 January 2014 or whether it is the date of entry into force of this law is, of course, peripheral matters. The message that we as the Assembly need to send is that this is the end of one way of functioning, where we are changing the way the building permit is issued and everything that is in line with the amendments to this law, where only this law is unique and unique and that we are discussing it, it would have no effect. Simply, we will in a package of different laws that will facilitate construction enable everyone to come to a building permit, at all, that they can come, that they come faster, and therefore we hope that there will be no more need for an unlawful form of construction in any form.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39857	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39858	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to this article on item 5. Item 5 says satellite footage of the 4th article's position must be available to citizens in electronic form on the Ministry's website for construction tasks. We added after the words "builders" deadline: "not later than 31 December 2015. The amendment is said to be rejected – the amendment is not accepted since it cannot be guaranteed that by 31 December 2015 it will be possible to see the electronic form on the website of the Ministry of Civil Engineering, etc., and will be available as soon as technical conditions are obtained. I've been following the media these days, and I've seen a statement from the ministry saying, among other things, that any attempt at illegal construction after the adoption of this law will be prevented by making satellite footage, which will be made on the day of the law's entry into force. If we know that the law takes effect the next day from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger", let's say, Monday, it's November 23rd, I'm interested in whether the ministry can't put it on its website by the end of the year, say, from January 23rd to January 31st? I think it's very important. There would also be the seriousness of the Ministry, and all of us to provide citizens with information, that is, to give them insight into everything that we have managed to see in that video. The second part of our amendment refers to Article 6a, which we thought to add after Article 6, and it reads: “The content of the records, as well as the process of listing the objects listed in Article 6, is prescribed by the Minister responsible for construction matters. ” You're saying that this topic has been processed in article 46, which is related to Article 7. However, somehow it seems logical to us that after Article 6 which states: “The list and the record of illegally built objects under Article 4 are carried out by units of local self-government” goes to the position that says: “Contents and records, as well as the process of listing the objects of the 6th article’s position, the minister responsible for works of construction”. So, I'd like to ask you, Madam Minister, to find out what it means when technical conditions are obtained? Is the deadline from, say, 40 days to the end of this year enough for technical conditions to be obtained, for satellite footage to be found on the Ministry's website? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39859	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39860	It may not be said in the right way, when the word “technical conditions ” is spoken. It relates, above all, to the end of the financial year, to the implementation of public procurement, so in the manner of obtaining satellite recordings themselves. That's why there's such an explanation. So, sure, when the satellite footage is fully paid, we'll put it on the Ministry's website anyway, no worries, but the word "technically" is not right. It really refers to the process, the process itself of conducting the purchase of satellite footage.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39861	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39862	Thank you. I'd just like to know if a statement from the Ministry saying that satellite footage will be made on the day of entry into force of the law and published immediately or not? So, is that a statement from the Ministry credible or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39863	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39864	To avoid confusion, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia, I saw the same, a misrepresented statement. It's not that statement. There's already been satellite footage done, and we're going to see when it's best to get them. So the statement you just read is not said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39865	Thank you. National MP Suzana Spasojevic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 6a be added after article 6. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39866	Respected citizens of Serbia, as regards Article 7, he opens this topic and the question of the list of illegally built objects and the 2nd position says the list contains zones and the dynamics of making lists per zone. We thought it was time and place to propose here beyond this formulation that the deadline for the census should be, instead of later proposed 12 months, 24 months. Given the capacity of local administrations, i.e. given the problems with the number, first of all, of building inspectors, we discussed this in the principle of discussion, given that about 300 construction inspectors in Serbia cannot list all the facilities and those who have submitted the requests and those who have not submitted the request, we propose that this deadline be defined in this article and that it implies activities on the 24-month census. Minister Mihajlovic has said several times these days that in fact local self-government will be able to form both special commissions and special teams that will make up professionals from public enterprises, from public administrations, from public institutions, etc. However, we find that insufficient. We believe that this government policy that was heading towards reducing salaries for public sector employees led to non-interest, lack of interest, and that it is difficult to hire these people to be responsible for their jobs, and that even in this variant, they have exceeded the possibilities of local administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39867	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39868	Your Honor, I only wish two sentences, so there would be no confusion. I suggest that the amendment be rejected, because I believe that the deadline is sufficient for the completion of this important work, unless one of the amendment's proposings had in mind his great pasture on the Wizard at the temple of St. Sava. Most importantly, the government wants to put order into construction and put an end to illegally built facilities that will be legalised, not as the predecessor said it would not be possible for citizens, at the lowest prices in the history of the Serbian state, even cheaper, but the previous law, 287 times. I figured it out, it'll be cheaper exactly. So, they say, let me put it in our citizens' dictionary for free. Thank you very much. I suggest that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39869	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. Why, Mr. Markovic? You're from Uzic. I can't fit you in with the pasture on the Wizard. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: He said I had a pasture on Vrakar. ) Mr Markovic, in order to make it clear to you, Members of Parliament Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the amendments. You must understand that the previous speaker could have talked about one or another amendment promoter and you cannot automatically interpret that something like that has been said to you. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) Especially if you are not from Belgrade, if you have nothing to do with the Wizard, then I don't understand how you want me to connect you to the Wizard. (Jovan Marković, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) You cannot, Mr Markovic, I will have to take two minutes from you again, so you will no longer have the time of the parliamentary group, if you try to abuse the Rules of Procedure. It's quite clear that this didn't apply to you and I can't give you any kind of replica based on it. Are you still insisting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39870	Dear Chairman, I call on article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 2, which speaks of the use of offensive expressions in the debate. I'm going to try despite all the risks and outrageous approaches you've had to me today in this discussion to explain to you that perhaps you haven't heard that your colleague has just said that the previous speaker has pastures on the Vracar. I was talking about the amendment, and he said I'm being held as the owner of some pastures on the Wizard. A fellow Risticevic next to him shows, probably, the building of the National Library on Vračar, and is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39871	Mr. Markovic, I believe you're not deliberately telling the truth. I believe you didn't listen very carefully. So the previous speaker didn't mention at any point that the previous speaker, but one of the amendment applicants, and you're not the only one. I have already told you that you are not the only applicant for the amendment, but have submitted the amendment along with MP Dragan Sutanovac. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: If so... I now have to take you two minutes, because you have misused the Rules of Procedure, you are trying in some way to abuse the wording of the Rules of Procedure. I won't do it now, because you only have two minutes left, but I ask you to listen carefully to what they say, in this case what MP Marko Atlagic said, and if you want to convince anyone in this room, when the pasture was mentioned on the Vracar, that this was about you, I don't think any of the MPs will believe it. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I say? No, you can't. Do you have Mr. Markovic's pasture on the Wizard? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I just say? You already said you didn't have one, and then please don't find yourself in Mr. Atlagic's discussion. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I come and tell you? Here you go. The word has its peoples MP, and I apologize before that, the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Mihajlovic, has the advantage. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39872	Thank you. Since we talk all the time about whether local self-governments can or can't desecrate, or whether they can implement this law and just mention an MP here has shown some solution to the 2012 Ministry of Civil Engineering and this solution that the ministry allegedly stops the collapse at Lake Vrutci, the village of Banja, from being confused by the citizens of Serbia. The first local self-government under the leadership of Mr Markovic, and today the MP, Mr Markovic, gave the first-degree solution for trailers that were not even subject to construction inspection to begin with, and that was why the ministry annulled the solution, because their construction inspector was doing something from the communal inspector's portfolio. Whether it was more with intent or with ignorance – I don't know, I think there's each other. For this reason, of course, the Ministry has, in accordance with the law, annulled the solution. So, the trailers aren't in the jurisdiction of the building inspection, I'm sure they do. Therefore, the Ministry did not stop the collapse, because it had to be done primarily by a municipal inspector. So, just because you don't cheat on the public, the Ministry did it in accordance with the law, and the city you ran today has over 10,000 illegally built objects and your inspections that were in your jurisdiction didn't practically know their job, and maybe it was your intention to send something like that in the first degree to the second degree, that you know for sure that the Ministry would do according to the law because you didn't and that it would return it, that some of your friends might stay there in those camp trailers. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39873	The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. ( b) Replica, on what basis? (Balša Bozovic, from town: She said – Mr Markovic. ) Right to the replica Master Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39874	Dear Mrs. Mihajlović, I see that your services work very quickly, if you had a very large number of associates, it would be good if they were involved in solving people's problems in the coming period, not that in this way all of you are deluding the citizens together. I am responsibly saying that our 2011 solutions, in 2010 which we as the City Administration, made that they were within the law and I never intended to interfere in the work of institutions, especially not to put pressure on construction inspection or any other inspection. I believe that these people were doing a job on the orders of the City Administration and the City Council as it should, and it is totally unacceptable that in this way you are adjudicating or defending the decisions of the Government and the Minister who without a solution of the City Administration, without consent in Užic, gave solutions to the legalization of the facility that was in the first zone of sanitary protection of the accumulation of Vrutca, and that happens just months before major pollution. As he was doing it irresponsiblely at the time, you later declared that I was the one stealing fish from Lake Vrutci and that conditioned the appearance of algae at some point. This statement of yours is so irresponsible that it produces enormous damage and consequences not only for the problem being solved in Užica, but for the work of the institutions. In any case, she has no intention of solving the problem but to hide the irresponsibility of all those people who came after 2012 to power in Užice and who do not know how to do these jobs, or what their role is, or what ingenuity is, let alone how to solve the problem of water pollution in Lake Vrutca. You hid them, as you hide them today, and what your predecessors did during that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39875	Right on line, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39876	Just so there's no confusion one more time. Maybe there's a real ignorance with you, I can understand that. The trailer camp wasn't in the jurisdiction of a construction inspection, it shouldn't have been in your time. But in your time, you did, so the solution was annulled for two reasons. One is of a formal nature because by law you were obliged to listen to the party, and the other is because it's nice, and even in an explanation it writes to you, well, since you've shown it here and I'm showing it and I can all look at it well, among other things - if the facility is built or its construction is completed without the building permit of Article 2. The law requires that the facility, please listen to this - a building connected to the ground. You know, the trailer camp isn't a building connected to the ground. Well, in that sense, it's not in the jurisdiction of a building inspection, of someone communal. So I guess it's ignorance. It wouldn't have been good if it had been intentional, so the Ministry has also annulled the first-degree solution and it's standing here and we can show it to everyone and we'll put it now and on the website to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39877	Comrade Markovic, you have no right to a replica now. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39878	Thank you. I would like to go back to the amendment and that on a very bad amendment, which the proposings have just continued the practice of the one they've been doing so far, the practice of asking citizens to submit new demands. Here, with this proposal of an amendment like this, they want to increase the deadline from 12 to 24 months. The first draft of the law was six months before the inspections made a list of illegally built objects, which I think was quite enough. The opposition also did not believe that construction permits would be delivered in Serbia in 28 days, so something like this is possible today in Serbia. In 28 days, you get building permits. So let's let practice show how this is gonna show up in the field. I don't think we should discuss any such amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39879	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment to the scale with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39880	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 7 speaks of a list of illegally built objects and we have tabled an amendment to item 2 so that it is changed and read – the regulation programme contains zones and the dynamics of making lists per zone. In particular, Article 2 of the Law provides that the list contains zones and the dynamics of making lists per zone. In view of the fact that the position of Article 7(1) requires that the list of illegally constructed objects under Article 6(4) of this Act be carried out according to the regulation programme in accordance with areas, i.e. the continents, which, on the proposal of the Civil Inspectorate, are adopted by the Head of the Municipal and Construction Administration. This is also proposed by the amendment to specify that it is necessary for the regulation programme, not the list to contain data on areas and the dynamics of making a list. I think that this amendment, which we have submitted by colleagues from the BORIS TADIĆ Group – SDS, ZZ, ZZ, and which you have accepted to our satisfaction, has shown that we really have a desire to improve the text of the law, to specify certain provisions, to remove the contradictions if there are between attitudes and different members, because it is important, not so much that we help the ministry in the making of the law, but it is important that the law be good, because it will apply to a large number of citizens. That is why it is necessary to be precise, precise, clear, without the possibility of different interpretations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39881	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39882	And that is why I urge you once again to consider our other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39883	Thank you. Just to inform the Members of Parliament, that according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the Assembly will be working after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and the mg of Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a national MP, first reported by counterpart Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39884	I thank the Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the citizens, Article 7 is controversial, particularly for the reason we have been instructed at the very beginning of this discussion. This is a partially correct solution and for this reason we have allowed the Inspector to get the opportunity to list every illegal object for his zone so that he can make a fairer solution to the demolition of all objects if they can't be the subject of, as you say, legislation. For this reason, we believe that this solution is just. I see there's a lot of anxiety with Minister Zorana Mihajlovic whenever the construction mafia is mentioned. I don't think there's any reason for that. In partially just solutions where only mobsters and tycoons can legalize themselves, with very little money, what they built against the law in tens of thousands of squares. I also told you exactly what objects are in Zlatibor, and I can also talk about Belgrade and Novi Sad and other cities and municipalities. That's actually why this law was passed. You allowed the construction mob to legalize what could never be legalized. Congratulations on that. This is your fourth corrupt law. I think that you will not have that possibility after the next parliamentary elections, because what you have made possible to the tycoons and what you have made possible to those who have illegally built all these years, it has never been a practice in any country and this is the first time. To be clear, neither did the ministers before you nor Velimir Ilic. You're the first minister to let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39885	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39886	As long as you don't answer the question, why didn't you follow the law for ten years, why didn't you arrest all those people and file criminal charges that they were building illegally, why did you selectively apply the laws that your current shadow minister was making? There's just no point in talking about it. One more thing, interesting thing is, they told me that you've finished law school, what you're saying, really has little to do with what's in the law and more interesting -- I'm surprised how much you can't even read the law, let alone interpret it. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39887	On what basis of my colleague Bozovic? Replica? (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: she asked a question. She was asking questions? Well, she wasn't asking you, she wasn't asking the MPs, she was asking the minister sitting in the shade. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39888	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to hear those names from Novi Sad, Belgrade, etc. of an esteemed colleague on the other hand, given that when we make arguments there are names and names, there are company names and it can be determined exactly who in this country was doing the right thing, and that it made it possible for them to do so because you had four or five of your laws, and I think there were four of them, which you adopted in your own time while you had all the power in this country, so they were never applied, and at the same time the empire of illegal construction was raised, for example. in the municipality of Palilula, the largest territorial municipality in Belgrade, which has nearly 180 thousand inhabitants. People every day, a respected ministeral, esteemed chairman, wonder who these tycoons are that build fast and hasty. If you see that you have 25,000 squares in almost four to six months on the left bank of the Danube, when I'm talking about the Turtle, Kotez and Borchi, who are these tycoons? Do those who go and drink coffee in the Palilu municipality of Takaviska where you have a coalition, and among other things you have a president from the DS since 2000? What you do and how you intimidate people and you're the last man who can talk about it. If I were you, and I would never be in your place, because I could never support the policy that your party conducted, and obviously continues today to conduct it in a local and regional government, where you still have power, I wouldn't even show up today in this assembly and this session, because you're doing more damage for the few people there that you want to protect, and you won't protect them because in Serbia you'll respect the laws, you'll know who's doing what you're doing today, and I think that's our right. You've seen these pictures, I don't know what the newspaper is, it doesn't matter, we won't even show it, you announced what's going on in the municipality that I'm coming from as the MP, the Palilu municipality. I'll use the time, I could say, and it's about this topic, because there will be more construction on the municipality, of course, in the future, but completely fair, responsible, legalised, arranged, as Palilula should be. And that's what we stand for and fight for. While on one side, since you just said there are tycoons, I don't think a million and a half thousand people who haven't legalized objects are tycoons. It's our people to whom we have to afford the price they can pay and enter the legal process, that the state benefits from it and that people finally get property and say it's something they did. I remember 2006. 2007 In 2008, how many people were afraid of how much you're going to raise legalisation and how much it's going to cost. Today it's appropriate to receive. Excuse me, if I may have your attention. What I'm saying is, from Palilula, which is really a potential municipality in Belgrade after you touched those topics, where you haven't introduced a single line on the left bank of the sewerage in 15 years, where you haven't solved the infrastructure, where you haven't allowed people to use the air line from this Assembly to have basic conditions in the 21st century, you're saying something and you're accusing someone. If you'd introduced the sewers a half-inch a day and changed the asbestos pipes in Krgnača by now, you'd have finished. One centimetre, not having any more serious work. You didn't do that. The easiest thing for you to do was to recruit people. The easiest thing for you to do was to barely take 200, 300 or 500 euros from that poor girl that raised one plate so you wouldn't bring it down. How can you not be ashamed? We're not talking about law enforcement, or accusing people who didn't pay, they couldn't because you didn't even let them, and when we talk about this law, I'm nowhere, and unlike you, I'm moving among citizens, I heard the remark that it's expensive, that it's peppered or that it's getting skin off my back. No one has said, but this government has made it possible and this law will be respected and applied, but we will deal with those who have all the privileges of working and building whoever they want and I really find it strange why your shadow minister seems to me to be a MUP, is that right, since he was extraordinary while he was running the real Ministry of Defense, why isn't he taking part in this debate? What is this man afraid of, and what is he running away from, or is he obviously busy, maybe you have a session? I don't know, I'm not in the middle of anything. Once again, I want to say to everyone that no one is buying the provocation or the replacement of the thesis by the former regime and those who are irresponsiblely leading the province government today, because I witnessed the great robbery and the great corruption, when we talk about building land, which has damaged us by eightm euros only in the city of Belgrade, when you have made it possible for Slavia, at the most attractive and expensive location in Belgrade, to translate something from an extra zone into another or a third zone, as if it were Ovca or Padinska Skela, to avoid what is followed by this country and this people, to allow a very team, and you often use that term, tycoons, to do whatever they want in Belgrade and in this country. That practice is over, and this is what I want to finish. I know that you as representatives of the former regime, where anarchy existed and it is a daily fact that we could see from one side, on the other hand, to allow many to become rich overnight, hard to accept the fact that we want to create a system, to introduce laws in this country, as we do and when we talk about employees, that those who have been in the gray or black zone for years during your government, to be registered today, to have an internship, to have social protection and everything that belongs to them, and we also want to talk about construction, or construction in our country to respect the laws and that our country, or our budget, is benefiting from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39889	The right to replicate the previous MP, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39890	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once had the opportunity today to explain to a young colleague what they really are – up to 800 squares is the municipal authority in Belgrade, over 800 squares, unfortunately or fortunately, Ms. Zorana Mihajlovic and Mr. Sinisha Mali. This is the address you need to contact for the simple reason that thousands and thousands of squares are not in the municipal authority. I hope you learn that if you want to run for president of the Palilu municipality. What's important to know is that the bridges you mentioned are the only bridges you'll see during your government, and the bridge via Ada and Zemun-Borch and between Surcin and Obrenovac are bridges that talk enough about the rule of the DS. These are bridges made not for DS, but for citizens, and what you are making here is tens of thousands of squares in Zlatibor, Kopalnik, Novi Sad and Belgrade to their members of the Serbian virgin party. I know that after a little blurry view from the DIPOS villa, the whole problem of bad life in Serbia is, but unfortunately, citizens are facing it and that is why you will lose the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39891	Right on line, Dr. Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39892	Just a little correction, MP DS. 250 bridges were built for the previous year and a half in Serbia. (Balsa Bozovic, from town: What is it, 250? ) Yes, yes, some are smaller, some are larger, but they are built. It seems impossible, probably. Also, they're all built, one very interesting thing for you to know, with a building permit. Everything you've done in the previous period you've done without a building permit. Everything that the Serbian Government is doing today, every facility that starts to work, works exclusively and only with a building permit, and that's the difference between the SNS, or our government and your government, but I'm leaving the question -- sorry, why didn't you arrest a million and a half people, why did you apply the law selectively, who took the money, MP DS, in the last ten years when you selectively applied the laws, which, of course, was passed by your minister, currently in the shadows? Someone did take money to get a building permit without someone getting a building permit and someone did that that ordinary people in this country couldn't build without some other people from your party building villas, buildings in amazing places. So these are the questions you first have to answer to Serbian citizens. Whether you believe that we are going to implement this law or not, I can say that it is almost less important. We are trusted by the citizens of Serbia, we will implement this law and they will become the owners of their apartments and their houses.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39893	Right on line, MP Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39894	Thank you, Your Honor. You know how, a man learns while he's alive and needs to adopt if someone advises him in an area, but I really can't adopt it from those who in every way have ruined everything they've touched. When you say that the municipality gives permission to up to 800 square meters, first of all, when you're building an object you can't start building it from 801 squares, then up, then putting it on someone else, but you have to do something up to 800 squares, someone has to react if they don't get a location, construction or any kind of permit. When we talk about the Palilu municipality and the left bank of the Danube, most of the buildings are in that status and no one has responded. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What aren't you? Well, the city has now responded. If you keep going, we can reveal, and that's what you're going to know, which is exactly how protection is done and who's the one who's very powerful, or who's very powerful, who's stronger than the whole community, and if they say the inspection can't touch you, then no one can touch you. So today, we're going to figure out whether it's going to stay that way in the future or whether it's going to change something. I'm betting something's changing because for 15 years you've functioned on that principle. The county inspection sent people who were going to build on some of the faces they were supposed to have coffee with, I guess. Well, he can't anymore and he can't. So I call upon all the authorities to examine it, so that we don't have much explanation here that the city is guilty, and the city together with the Ministry of Construction has decided that the buildings are being destroyed because they were built illegally, and from whom they didn't get, I end up not a single permit, but they build as long as they can, until someone says so far as they can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39895	Thank you, Mr. Jovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Replica, to respond to the minister's lady. That's exactly what I'm talking about, why you're jumping, there's no need. The only reason you would possibly have the right to a replica is to answer the question of the Minister, which is to tell everyone here who was from the DS, who was in power until a few years ago, he received money from who. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: I can answer. If you're going to answer that, if not, we'll interrupt the exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39896	I thank the chairman. There were a few questions. The first question was about 250 bridges in Serbia built by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39897	I interpret the Rules of Procedure that the only right to exercise the right to replica is to answer the question of who was from the DS while the government was taking money from and from whom. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Can I say? You're looking for a word, and you're looking for bridges, you're looking for bridges, you're looking for bridges.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39898	Were there individuals who took money on behalf of the DS? I say they are responsible, but they are members of the SNS today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39899	What names?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39900	I'm not the prosecution, I'm not the police, I'm not the court, Mr. Chairman. All of them to one today are members of the SNS and feel free to bring them to justice and I'll applaud you on that. I've even called the Home Secretary several times to do it. If I could get about 250 bridges, would I be grateful?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39901	You can't. You'll get a list of bridges, no problem. The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39902	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, a respected colleague, in spirit requires an amendment to redefine the deadlines for the record, I would like very principledly to state my position, that I think this is a law that absolutely does not have party features, it has no party color. This is where the facilities that I assume were built by any citizens who are not members of any party, or citizens who are members of different parties, are legalized. It is quite clear that what we are legalising today, or what we will say tomorrow, by voting the law, will be an opportunity for the state of Serbia to stop building illegally. We've heard different arguments here. On both sides, non-discipline and selective access to the law have been brought forward. In the spirit of it, I'd like to mention another vision, so to speak, of selectivity. Currently, actions of express decision on the destruction of objects for which legalisation has been applied are in place in various Belgrade municipalities. Of course, there's no need for me to read now what my citizens are telling me, but it's very important that if we go into the process of legalising objects, then we don't abuse the situation from the next few days, when it's possible to bring such solutions. I am asking so many colleagues who have proposed changes in deadlines from opposition parties, to address the situations we currently have in municipalities, where indeed selectively access this possibility of making fast-track solutions under the old law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39903	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39904	I'm using my authorized time. Mrs. Comic has submitted an amendment to Article 7(7), which she suggests changes and is to be said by saying that those facilities that were built after 1 November 2013 are not subject to legislation. That is the essence of this amendment. In our opinion, this is an extremely good amendment because it is unacceptable to legalize those objects that were built after the adoption of the Law on Legalisation. This would mean that actually those who were illegally building then, after 2013, knew that the law would not be applied. Now, my question is, since someone here accuses the DS of not applying the laws she passed, I ask – and what bothered the SNS to apply the Law on Legalisation that was passed in 2013? How long did it take them to be in power, to start solving the problem of illegal action? So far we've counted three and a half years. So, our view is that those facilities that were built after 1 November 2013, when the Law on Legalisation was passed, should not be legalised, to be subject to this procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39905	The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39906	Thank you, Your Honor. I absolutely believe that this amendment to Article 7 should be rejected and I would support the explanation of the ministry given that the bill applies to all illegally built, illegally built buildings. So no one can be excluded and that applies to those who have not applied for legalisation, and all of this is based on the satellite footage from 2015. I have to ask myself here, personally, and I believe the citizens of the Republic of Serbia all day long, who is telling us more about tycoons and malversions today? This law has just been made in support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, where they will be able, in a quick, cheap way, and with very few procedures, to narrow down their facilities. That's what we heard and that's the point of this law. So absolutely the law was built in the best interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39907	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and together Jovan Marković and Dragan Sutanovac submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39908	Respected Serbian citizens, Article 8, in its third position, says that the subject of legislation can also be an object that has a floor prescribed by a valid plan document, and an exceptional object that has two floors at most of the permitted flooring for the urban zone. I've had enough controversy about this proposal and on the board and I think it's public in the previous period. Our amendment concerns paying attention, however, and we agree with this approach that maybe local administrations should have a key and crucial word in making these decisions and legalising such objects. On the other hand, we are skeptical whether it can cause certain irregularities and abuses and corruption and that this is a reason to endanger people's lives and safety. Therefore, we have suggested that the subject matter of law may also be an object which has a floor prescribed by the current planning document. Although there are no other procedures, although there is no proposal for a sublegal act to be done in the next period, I think this is a meaningful proposal, primarily for the safety of people. Considering how many buildings, or how many buildings in the last 20 to 30 years, have experienced this so-called. Upgrade and how much of these facilities are just risky quality, so to speak, with poor stable backs, with poor materials from which they were built, etc., I find it unacceptable to endanger the health and safety of people by now allowing for a certain degree of urgency that will later endanger the functioning of citizens, i.e. the safety of buildings. In the event that this proposal is followed, it would be necessary and necessary for those facilities that have stability to have the capacity, which are built from solid materials, to be in a way precise and to be able to make local decisions that will be legalised at the local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39909	Thank you. Let me check. So Natasa Vukkovic and MP Balsa Bozovic were also reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39910	Representative time. So, the explanation that rejected this amendment of ours to Article 8. I don't want to comment. We have requested this amendment that the subject matter of law may be an object that has a floor prescribed by a valid plan document. In response to which this amendment has been rejected, it has been said that an amendment of a national MP, which has given the local self-government the authority to determine the maximum flooring of an object in a given continent, zone, etc. Look, we don't think this is a good solution. We are in favour of decentralisation, we are in favour of local self-government having key roles in regulating life and work, in doing business in local communities, but we think that in such an area as legalisation, legislation, this is not a good solution. This amendment, which you are prepared to adopt, will actually create a new space for corruption for the next reason. In our opinion, local self-governments will have far less capacity to resist the pressures of investors who have built higher floors without law than this would be the case if the law provided for the maximum flooring of a single facility that can be legalised as illegal. So there'll be less transparency, we won't know what's going on and how the procedures are going. I think that what I was saying and in the principle debate, this additionally increased space for discretionary decision-making in these procedures, in determining the rules, ultimately, and that we will have an unequal practice and a lot of new privileges, and that the whole thing will be pretty much hidden from the public because thus decentralised capacities of local self-government will actually create one insufficiently illuminated, that the whole process of legislation will in this way be not sufficiently illuminated. This confirms what we have been saying, that this law is unfair, that people will not have equal opportunities for legislation, that these are actually discriminated against by those who have illegally built and that a new space for corruption is opened. That's our deep conviction. What you're talking about is corruption in the DS, it's really already, as I tell you, become somewhere anachronous, because you've been in power for three and a half years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39911	By amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39912	I understand that you won the 2012 elections, I don't want to talk about fighting corruption, but today more with Serbian citizens back three and a half years...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39913	You haven't spoken by amendment. You have to pick up the amendment to talk. (Nataša Vučković, from the post: I speak according to the amendment. That there was room for corruption. That's an argument. ) Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39915	So I'll only conclude with one sentence. That the story of corruption and the DS is no longer passing, since it's been three and a half years since you're in power and no one believes you in fighting corruption anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39916	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. It's just that this time is turning away from your time as head of the parliamentary group, and MP Balsa Bozovic as the applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39917	Thank you. So, I will refer only to Mrs Natasa Vukkovic, for the simple reason that this is an amendment that is essential, so as not to come into wild construction in the future. Therefore, the subject matter of law may be an object which has a floor prescribed by a valid plan document. That's our proposal. In addition to what your bill says, it leaves the possibility of non-transparency, where some will again be privileged and some will be able to build and some will be able to enter into what is not prescribed by the planning documents, and, of course, Serbian citizens will not have the right to do so. What bothers us is this very partial justice, as the minister had several times today to say, a partial justice has led to the fact that Serbian citizens are all on the one hand, and on the other hand we have the top of the government that enjoys the privileges that this Government of the Republic of Serbia allows. I don't think that's a good solution. I think it's something that Serbian citizens see every day on the street, every day in municipalities, every day in cities, every day when they turn around they see that only the top of the SNS lives well, that everyone else lives much worse. For this reason we have proposed this amendment, so that at least in this case it would not happen in the future. We think this is the only fair solution, and that, unfortunately, there is no injustice for the citizens, and justice is only for those who are in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39918	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39919	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, this amendment, of course, that we can't accept, because we didn't realize the essence of what this amendment wants to achieve at all. But I would ask them to see the MPs, they should know, from all parties, of course, what an illegal object means without any permission at any time. You know, during Dragan Gilas we had, they say, 200 bridges during the former regime. Here, I will show one bridge, just to let the citizens see, which you have left for our citizens, our people in Barajev. Look at the power of the bridge. If you look, since we don't have room to fit it all in, there should be expropriation on the left, and there's the Serbian Orthodox Church, their yard and entrance to the church. You can't, of course, do an expropriation or anything you want to take down, and you're going into private property with a neighbor, a man. Twelve million and 600, without permission. The permit for this piece, which is very important, the chairman, was granted the permission for this piece also at the time of the current regime, at the time of Dragan Gilas. But what's important, Chairman, and you'll agree to that? They say -- you can't talk about corruption anymore, you've been in power for three years. Yes, gentlemen, but you've been in power for 15 years, too. You have a prime minister in the District Government. We're three, and you're 15. And you are still in power, in most Belgrade municipalities you are in power. You continue to act the way you did during Gilas and many before him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39920	My colleague Jovicic, please, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39921	Of course, according to the amendment, it's all about the amendment. I'm showing you, people need to know how they left themselves, the chairman, the bridges. Why do I say that? Because we've been in power for three years, but I repeat once again that there are elements of corruption still because we have a provincial prime minister who's been in power for 15 years. So, don't pose to the citizens of Serbia as an opposition because you are not, you can be -- if you turn your back on Bojan Pajtic. You may have done so, so you are now opposition MPs and do not recognize your party president, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, I end up, and that is not even impossible, given that you are changing the heads of the parliamentary groups very often, so we see who will be next.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39922	Did you want the amendment or the replica? (Nataša Vučković, from town: Replica. Right on the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39923	Just to ask my SNS colleagues not to deal with those DSs. We have our president and we know what we're doing. As for the fight against corruption, the DS does not escape in any way what it is to determine the responsibility of each individual, whether it belonged to DS or to any other political organisation or participated in power, but it is indeed a matter for the court and for the competent judicial authorities. So, bidding here on this or that is really not the place in this House either, does not contribute to our debate and does not ultimately contribute to Parliament's dignity to address each other in this way. Therefore, I would like to really oppose each other's arguments, and I am very inclined always to accept the arguments of my conversators, and I believe that you are the same. So what we have just claimed is that this solution when you do not accept our amendment, and accept the amendment that local self-government will determine the flooring of the objects, that this will increase corruption. This will prove true in practice. You can deny it now, but practice will show it. We're sorry about that. We would love, I would personally like my colleagues, so that such practices no longer exist and that we do not have corruption in Serbia. So we really stand for it, honestly. I believe it is a common interest to all of us and that this is the public interest you speak of in Article 3, when you say – public interest is the law of lawlessly raised objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39924	The People's MP Zoran Babic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39925	I'm going to have to disprove the words of an esteemed colleague and I'm going to have to tell you -- oh, yeah, you've been running away from fighting corruption. Here's one little reason and one little fact. From 2010 to 2013, although you had a comfortable majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you did not adopt a strategy, a document that brings and adopts the National Assembly, you did not adopt a strategy to fight corruption. To what fight against corruption do you call yourself, if you say, if it is the fact that we are not as a state, as a society, we also had a strategy to fight corruption? Three years, from 2010 to 2013. Of course, the Government of Aleksandra Vukic and the SNS and the Assembly's majority adopted the strategy for five years in 2013. So, as far as fighting corruption is concerned, you have clearly defined yourself by not adopting a strategy to fight corruption. One thing I will agree with, the SNS is not engaged and there is no need to deal with the DS, the actions of DS individuals are largely dealt with by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39926	The People's MP Natasa Vukkovic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39927	The fight against corruption has many stages. The first stage is to pass the law. The second phase is to establish and provide conditions for the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. It was all done by the Democratic Party. Of course, it was necessary to bring strategy, etc. But you can't bring everything in one term. Perhaps there was some slowness, perhaps this slowness was partial and because we had one opposition that was such that it was very difficult to move forward in some European reforms, we may have been late because some parties that had previously been much more numerous in this House during the first decade of the 21st century actually made it impossible to speed up these processes, all of this stands. But what's now a question is, what kind of laws we are now making and what solutions we are now predicting, because we will apply these laws both in local self-government and in central republican authorities, and that is now an important issue. And about the past, citizens gave their own court, 2012 and 2014. But he'll give you the election again. So this law will be the source of new corruption. That's what we claim, and that's what the citizens will see. And then we'll get out who said what in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39928	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39929	I think this is a previous exhibit for a congregation anthology -- that some laws and strategies in the fight against corruption have not been brought in because of parliamentary groups that were then in opposition. There was a comfortable assembly majority, there was a Rules of Procedure that you'd made the way you wanted and what you wanted, and now it's the opposition at the time why the anti-corruption strategy wasn't adopted. Please! I really don't see any touch points with logic. It would be as if we were looking at these millions and 500 thousand objects that were illegally built and said -- you know, some MP group there will set up and make some amendments and now they'll be guilty of why we won't deal with it, nor will we pass such a law. It has nothing to do with logic, with all due respect. It is really necessary for everyone to look in the mirror, and I think when the presentations of certain MPs are at stake, at least just before talking about some illegal construction and some things how they live and how they lived before, I believe that he said that by standing in front of the mirror and looking at his reflection in that mirror.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39930	Thank you. My colleague Vukkovic, please, on what grounds? Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39931	About the delay and anything, I just said that we passed the law, that we created conditions to fight corruption. We created the Anti-Corruption Agency. We passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, etc. Why is progress in the report on the progress of the European Commission today that the Serbian government is late to pass a more precise anti-corruption agency law? Therefore, you too have some delays for some reasons you probably find justified. I'm just telling you that can happen. But what's the question today is are we going to have more corruption with this law of law? We claim to have.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39932	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. This concludes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39933	I'll have another sentence. This is another exhibit that may not be for that congregation anthology, but it is a kind of confession. When you say, on the one hand -- here, we have passed the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, we have not adopted a strategy, we do not need a strategy, you know, but there are also steps in the strategy that must be met and the results that must be shown, and now the European Commission is, and I am glad that a colleague has called on the European Commission report, said and proved that this law is missing. So you're referring to the law that you passed and you immediately show that he's missing. This looks like Mr. Bojan Pajtic criticizing the Labour Act. And then he didn't realize that he criticized the Labour Act that she formed and made and adopted the Democratic Party, so it was more quickly and better removed from the Democratic Party site because he saw that he was criticising himself. I take this as a criticism of what you've done and it's not a bad thing, it's a good start – admitting guilt, admitting and accepting responsibility for all the bad things you've done. In addition, the government of the Republic of Serbia is leading a clear policy against corruption. And there is no protection in the fight against corruption. That's what we've shown so many times over the past three years. In this assembly hall, one difficult session removed immunity from the Serb Progressive Party's MP because there were doubts by the judicial authorities that he had wronged the law. And we didn't have a problem in the course of an election campaign to end immunity. Why? Because no bookbook, no acquaintance, no membership book, nobody's phone number will protect anyone. We're practically showing these things. In one day, people who are high-ranking officials and the Democratic parties and our coalition partner were brought in, but also our high-ranking officials. Because there are no people who are officials and the fact that they are officials or members of a party won't take them out of guilt if they've committed a crime. Were such things and such occasions in the past? No, it's not. It was enough to know someone. It's enough to have a Democratic Party membership card. It's enough to send that famous letter from the swallows... who said - this man must advance in the judicial authorities because he dismissed all charges against the Democratic Party. [[off microphone]] Now, it's a fight against corruption your way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39934	My colleague Vukkovic, on what grounds now? Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39935	Anyone who knows a little better about the process of European integration and the accession process knows that reforms are taking place phasely and that during accession, first accession and then accession to the European Union, some laws, of course, are improving, because you cannot immediately pass a law that will be at the level of what is a full standard in the EU, but these standards are introduced gradually. The first thing is to form institutions, to ensure that they work, etc. That's what we did and that's what I stress when I'm talking about the Anti-Corruption Agency and the first laws we've passed in that segment. I firmly agree that the Democratic Party had a serious intention and serious reform in that segment. What is important is that we know that you too must improve this law, as Croatia has promoted it. I think the strategy has changed and improved five or six times, as well as action plans. It's just normal in the process of accession and it's something I believe my SNS colleagues will accept over time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39936	A colleague of Zivkovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39937	Article 255 has been injured, which says sessions of the Assembly and its working bodies are public. There is currently no transmission of our session, and I could understand that something important is happening, out of public interest, as stated in Article 2 of this law. However, the session's transmission is not due to the transfer of the Federation tennis match and some Japanese. I don't know which one of them is, is he a member of the government, is he a member of a ruling party, or has some other vital interest in Serbia, the Serbian people and its citizens, or is it an obstruction by the Public Service, with the permission of the Parliament's leadership, that Serbian citizens cannot be directly familiar with the law that we all agreed on and agreed to be of the highest national interest? Therefore, I ask you either to enable the transfer to be re-enabled and to continue to meet the Serbian public with what is happening here, about an important law, or to take a break until the tennis game of that Swiss and Chinese, or Japanese, and then let us proceed later. I'm sure the amendment promoters will stay here and after the break, defend their allegations and prove that we're right about what we're proposing through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39938	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. We didn't get word from RTS emitters that it wasn't an ongoing transmission. (Zoran Zivkovic, from place: Check. ) (Balša Bozovic, from town: Pause. Please don't throw it at me. We will ask for a statement on this issue and for that part of the session that is not broadcast in direct transmission, a re-emission will be carried out. I am very pleased that you have made political progress, since while you were Prime Minister, I as a People's MP, had no right to sit down as a state-sponsored information service. We'll let you know as soon as we get information from RTS. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39939	I agree, Mr. Arsic, with your argument, and I would add as a citizen of this country, and I wish that both Mr. Nisikori and Federer were citizens of Serbia and that if they were members of the party and such aces and such winners, and that it is fortunate that there are more in Serbia, I would not in such a mockery treat the people of the world's tennis world. On the other hand, I'm sorry Mrs. Vuchkovic isn't here right now. I believe he'll hear. I don't think fighting corruption is the Anti-Corruption Agency building. The fight against corruption is not even the people who work at the Corruption Agency. It's a form. The essence lies in the synergy of society as a whole, in the synergy of each individual that it is when it points to corruption that it is protected from the state, and this congregation majority has passed the Alert Act. The fight against corruption is also in the judicial authorities, that judges judge by law and the Constitution, not as in 2012 we found some three cases in the Special Court of Organized Crime. Nothing more, and then in a year, 138 indictments were filed and 138 indictments and confirmed. It's all a crucial fight against corruption. To appeal to the fight against corruption, to say that the result is that a secure building for the Anti-Corruption Agency has been secured, because some people have found employment within the Agency, I think, is the demeaning of our society and all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39940	Thank you, colleague Granny. We received a notice from RTS that today, on Thursday 19 November, they will not be able to follow the meeting of the Serbian Parliament in a direct transfer to the Second RTS Programme due to the previously agreed obligation to transfer the Federation – Niskori tennis match from the Masters tournament in London. A recording of part of the session that was not broadcast in the direct transmission will be broadcast below the programme. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: I answer the word. Mr. Zivkovic, on what basis now? I commended you, Mr. Zivkovic. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: First, replica to you.]] (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, no, you did not commend me. Well, I commended you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, that's what I'm assessing since you've replicated to me... That's what you're estimating. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Of course. I don't know on what basis, but I'll give you the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39941	First of all, my political progress or setback is estimated in the elections, of course, and that neither I nor yours nor mine, can measure progress by giving each other compliments or insults. Number one. Two, at that time, if you were thinking about the time when I was Prime Minister of Parliament, the sessions were transferred, except in the part of that year when it was a state of emergency, it was 40 days, there were plenty of sessions, but after that the sessions were transferred. I don't remember when the SNS was in parliament, so I don't remember you either. After that, after I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you gave your next colleague the right to replicate me, which, of course, is impossible, when it comes to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, we are not going back to history, because we will find many interesting events, which will not be good for one, the other, the third or the fifth, but allow you to allow us to have a direct transmission of this important session that we have all agreed on and the legislator and the amendment promoters and all colleagues, that it is vitally important for the area defined by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39942	Comrade Zivkovic, I'm going to have to answer you even though it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Babić, was given the right to a replica based on the presentation of his colleague Vučković, not on your presentation. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: No, it's not. ) He replicated an absolute colleague who spoke about the Anti-Corruption Agency, and he talked about the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Unlike the time when you were prime minister, this Assembly and this Government cannot influence the RTS programme and we will also ask the RTS Archive to show us the direct transmission footage from the end of "Sablje" until the start of the discussion of the non-confidential vote to your government. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: There was no mistrust with this government, but I asked that... That was after. Now you can no longer disband the Assembly by the Constitution. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: It is from radical times, I understand it. From democratic times? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the town: From the radicals. A from the radicals. Okay. According to the amendment, the People's MP Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39943	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues, I'm just wondering, after a long time, we're back on the proposed amendment. I think it's absolutely unacceptable and I wonder how the public's safety concerns are now, where were your construction inspections at the time to react when these facilities were built? Nate, nothing overnight can build one or two floors. So it takes a while. That's one thing. The second thing, we had a lesson in the promotion of auto-projection and that local self-government would do the right thing and that it would suffer pressures and be subject to these pressures. That's not the case with those environments where the SNS is in power. You're obviously worried about those municipalities that are still under your jurisdiction, but I don't think that's gonna last much longer, so for the five or six months until the local elections, I don't think they're gonna do that much damage. As for the laws that have been passed in your time were laws of private interest, so now we have to correct it and that's why it bothers you because we adopt laws of public interest means to our citizens. Just to add about the Anti-Corruption Agency, I have no doubt that you had good intentions, but it is said, "The road to hell is paved by good intentions." You brought us to that hell, so now we have to, unfortunately, pull ourselves out as we know and know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39944	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the People's Parliaments Susana Spasojevic and Marijana Maras together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Professor Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr Ivan Bauer, Professor Vladimir Marinkovic, Professor Dr Vesna Besarović, Dr Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39945	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government and fellow Members, of the fellow Members, of Article 8, would only like to point out the satisfaction of redefining the part of the member relating to the basis for legalising objects that are different from the relevant planning document. I would also like to commend my co-operation with my colleague Babic and the government's willingness to accept this amendment. He's actually in the spirit of what we wanted with our amendments. I would just like, regarding this member of ours, to point out, that amendment has not been accepted and it refers to the part of Article 8 in which we wanted to list the situations of the objects that will be legalised and the objects that are located in a zone for which there is no appropriate planning documentation. All the views of Article 8 refer to situations where the plan document has defined the possibilities for legislation. Only no case has been mentioned that an application for the law of objects in the zone for which there is no planned documentation has been filed. In that sense, he was our member, so I wanted to explain what was the idea of a fellow MP and me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39946	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39947	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 9 which we have proposed that it be amended in such a way as to provide the relevant evidence and documentation, and to consider the report on the situation found in accordance with this law, the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Articles 3, 5, 6 and 8, of this Act, which is a condition for the continuation of the legal process. Article 9 The draft law which has been submitted to us is prescribed that the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Articles 3, 5, 6 and 8 of this Act is a condition for the continuation of the legal process. Articles 3 and 5. The draft law lays down significant exceptions to the conditions for the legalisation of illegally built objects, while Articles 25, 26, 28 and 30 provide for the handling of the competent authority to determine whether those exceptions are concerned. We intervene with the amendment in order to amend this provision and logically prescribe that, after the relevant evidence and documentation has been obtained, as well as to consider the report on the situation found, and not before that, it shall determine the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Articles 3, 5, 6 and 8. It's a bill of law. The amendment was rejected by reason that the formulation was proposed in the bill more precisely. I think this is a flat-rate explanation, because it can't be more precise, and it's not about precision, it's about determining the order of steps to determine the conditions of the prescribed members to carry out the further legal process. We believe that the order of steps that we have proposed is more logical, more correct and that it leaves greater legal certainty for citizens who enter this process.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39948	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Bicanin. Does anyone want a word? You wanted to follow this amendment? The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39949	Yes, as an authorised representative of the SDPS. I'd like to simply explain what the idea of this amendment was. The amendment actually changes only one binding in the statement, in the attitude in which it writes – the subject of the legislation can be the object for which the owner provides evidence of the appropriate right on the building land or building. Our amendment was, in fact, to change the relationship “or ” with the relationship “and. ” I will take the opportunity to explain my amendment to the same article 10, and I will not report back later. The common idea was to include evidence of the proper right on construction land in mandatory documentation, and in fact the idea was that this was primarily about applying for legislation, to the Law on Special Rights. Since the amendment to Article 10 in the part that defines this particular area has been accepted, then we think that what we as the applicants of the amendment wanted to achieve is actually achieved. We thank you so much for accepting one piece of this article, and when it comes to the order of my amendment, I will not answer for a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39950	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39951	I thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Minister with Associates, given that all our amendments, with the support of the law, have gone in the direction of improving the quality of the law, in relation to Article 10, I would only draw attention to the appropriate rights that you have defined as a condition for the law of the facility, of course, if the owner delivers evidence in appropriate law. In Article 10(2), you have defined the right to property as an appropriate right. I must remind myself that under the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Laws, the way to acquire property is law, inheritance or legal work, or contract. And how does property definitely get there? By enrolling in the immovableity cadastre service. So, we've defined the base of acquisition. There are three grounds: law, legal work, inheritance. When's it coming? It comes in the original way, and that's by enrolling in the cadastre. If so, why would such an object be subject to the law? He, as you define him, has the right to property. If he has property rights, then that property is defined by the enrollment of the immovableity cadasar. The question arises – can such an object be the subject of law? Do you need to rephrase this attitude? It is not disputed that the right to use, the right to lease on building land, and other rights, are appropriate rights on the basis of which the owner of the facility, which is the subject of the legislation, provides evidence of this. But if we are talking about property and we are applying the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, then there is a need for intervention in the sense of reshaping such a provision because the right of property is obtained by enrolling in the record of the immovableity cadastra for the relevant municipality on which that cadastre is located, or competent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39952	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac, together with Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, submitted to the 10th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39953	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, I would like you most kindly to pay attention to our argument regarding the interpretation of this second position of Article 10. In addition to what my colleague Jovanovic stated, and what I fully agree with, I would like to open this other topic, concerning the lease on construction land that is in public property. We considered it necessary to delete this proposal which you have proposed in paragraph 2, where it is said that the right to property on the property, i.e. property rights, the right to use or the right to lease on the building land in public property, as well as other rights prescribed by the Law on Planning and Construction as an appropriate right on building land. Gentlemen, if we are talking about corruption, if we are talking about the adverse consequences and effects of these proposals, please consider these arguments that I am talking about. In view of the Law in conversion, which allows you to be able under very favourable conditions and circumstances, although you are leased for 99 years, on building land, selling, building, trading, to place yourself in the capacity of the owner to some immovableity, etc., we are coming to the conclusion that by applying this member of the law renting on land that is in public property will be a very fast subject to crime, corruption. It is not good to give the possibility to use, for example, the Law on Conversion and this Law without clear criteria, in the sense that someone is leased on public property, for example, for five years, and to make use of the Law on Conversion and this Law and therefore to build and sell rapidly, trade, etc. So if you haven't defined the clear criteria and principles of how public law is going to be applied, if it's in the sense of this member's lease, then it's good to do it, or to withdraw this proposal and otherwise specify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39954	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39955	Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising the violation of Rule 107. Since neither you nor Mr Markovic obviously wants to see it, one-third of the parliament, and I believe that in years ahead of us more than one-third of the parliament will be women, it is rude at least, but the violation of the Rules of Procedure, to address "mothers", and even in this room are now much more patient and diligent and it is precisely women, MPs. Please, Mr. Chairman, do not allow such humiliation of colleagues in the future, but also of all women involved in politics, as well as of all women in Serbia who are motivated to deal with politics, which have not only brought charm and beauty to this House, but have brought in a lot of wisdom, so that there will be no such things in the future. I will, on behalf of Mr. Markovic, because I do not believe that he will have the strength to do so himself, make an apology to all the people's MPs he did not want to see in this room, just such an address, only the gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39956	My colleague Babic, I still can't influence the MPs how they're going to begin their presentation, I can only appeal to take care of it. My colleague Markovic, on what grounds are you now? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I just have one sentence, since I was called.) ( ) You have been called out of the section relating to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. you have been pointed out to me in my work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39957	I think it's okay for me to agree with my colleague Babic for the first time. I really apologize to all the colleagues who were present here, who I didn't mention. It seemed to me that the importance of this topic that I was talking about was so great and important that at some point I might have overlooked what I said, so my colleague Babic was right in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39958	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39959	I thank you, Chairman. I'll go back to the amendment, given that we've taken certain positions relating to the same member. A colleague Markovic mentioned conversion. Yes, the conversion solves certain questions. Given that we're going to have situations here where beneath the building is land for regular use of the facility, we have land that is otherwise defined by Article 70. The Law on Planning and Construction, as a land for the regular use of the facility, where it is precisely specified which area corresponds to the surface of a building plot on the territory of the units of local self-government, so that in this direction we cannot object to the law in this way, but in any case I accept something else which could again be tied to what I just said, Your Honor. Far from being in the SPS parliamentary group asking for something to be deleted, just about the job. To erase, it means automatically to make something up. We don't think that way. We think we should consider the fact, what I just said, I have to explain and repeat, in order to avoid in practice certain problems. If I own the facility, my right to property is entered in the immovableity list. In the list of immovable property rights on the facility can be at the same time the right of property with the right to use the cadastral plot on which the facility is built. In that situation, we have defined two rights. Property rights in favour of the owner of the facility. It's Nedjo Jovanovic. The right to use on a catastrian plot on which Neđo Jovanovic built the facility. I just asked a question. If I already have the right to property in the cadastre, I have the right to a cadastrian plot on which my house was built, is my house subject to the provisions of the Law of Law? According to Article 10(2), it is subject to and I think it is absolutely excessive because my legal interest, material and any other interest, is exhausted by the law because I have entered my right of property in the cadastre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39960	The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39961	Thank you, Your Honor. I would just use the right to reply, not by amendment, and I would just add to the presentation of my colleague Babic, who reported to the Rules of Procedure, that today is the World Men's Day. On behalf of my colleagues and on my behalf, I congratulate all my colleagues on the day, and on behalf of all the citizens of our Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39962	Thank you, colleague Vlahovic. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Bosnjak. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Prof. Branko Djurovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39963	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, Article 13, is in a work that deals with the way and the legal process, and he says in his position 1. — the competent authority shall, after determining the fulfilment of the previous conditions, and those contained in Article 10, and the existence of the relevant rights referred to in Article 10 of this Act, continue the legal procedure by obtaining the documentation referred to in Article 11 of this Act. We have proposed that this point 1 be changed and read – the competent authority after obtaining the report on the situation and other relevant documentation referred to in Article 11 of this Act determines the fulfilment of the conditions for the law and the existence of the relevant rights laid down in Article 10 of this Act. Why did we say that, dear minister? Article 13. The draft law provides that the competent authority, in determining the fulfilment of previous conditions and the existence of appropriate rights, shall continue the legal process by obtaining a report on the founding state, which forms an integral part of the elaborate of geodetic works for an illegally built facility. On the other hand, pursuant to Article 11(1). – the report on the situation found is provided in order to determine the possibility of legislation, while Article 19 paragraph 8 provides that if the state of construction, or the quality of the works carried out in relation to stability, or security is not satisfactory or technical regulations for that type of facility have been amended, the report also contains a proposal for a measure, i.e. a list of works taken prior to the publication of the legislation solution. Given that the cited provisions of the bill are not fully in line, we have proposed this amendment, and I think it is appropriate that you accept our amendment, because it is more concrete and better prepared than it is in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39964	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Gjorge Cabarkapa. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39965	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, therefore, has been proposed in Article 25 of Amendment 5, which says in its original form - by way of a legally completed procedure, the decision of the 2nd member's position, the competent authority shall forward without delay to the construction inspection. We have suggested that this change be made, and that it reads: "After a legally completed procedure, the solution set out in Article 2, the competent authority shall deliver it to the building inspection within three days of the date of adoption of the solution", because we believe that the illegally built facility is not in the degree of construction of the prescribed law by the competent authority, and it is undeniable that the legal standard does not exist without delay in our legal order. We have our opinions, and you have accepted that in order to make the law more effective, the deadline should be determined in that way that we have suggested that it is three days, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39966	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov together and Jovan Marković and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 25th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39967	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens, this is a member for whom we have proposed to delete for the simple reason that he is in collegiate with Article 25(6) and Article 18. So, in Article 18, what is provided for in this law is in some way contrary to what is foreseen in Article 25, and we believe that any law that contains disagreements in its members and every law that tries in several different ways one thing and the same thing to regulate is not a good law. For this reason, many will remain deprived of legalization, and in order not to do so, this Article 25, paragraph 6, must be deleted, for the simple reason that it does not comply with Article 18 of this Law. In order for it to happen that tomorrow someone can, as certain craft objects are listed here, by which all commercial facilities are introduced on the market, to be legalised, and on the other hand someone can't put his roof over his head, just because it is an object on a plot that has more owners, we think it is very important to correct those gaps that are from the MPs of the Democratic Party, and also many other opposition parties, we just heard Mr Bradic, too, and we think it is very important that we clear the text of the law very well. Someone said that our amendments, in fact, had no purpose at all and had no meaning at all. I think it's very important that the meaning and purpose of every congregation debate be a good law, not that someone comes and pushes something to go to their neighborhood early or to their house. I think it's very important that we get a good look at every bill and these amendments are for the job right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39968	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39969	I think it's ladies and gentlemen about the misunderstanding. It is obvious that the end of the legal process, on the one hand, means that objects that have not been completed, which have already been defined, are entered into the right of property in these facilities and it is perfectly normal for someone who has completed those legal assumptions to continue to build these objects and end. So there is no reason why these people are not allowed to, of course, respecting the Law on Planning and Construction that defines it, this process continues, regardless of the current state of the facility. Therefore, it seems to me that there is no conflict here with Article 18 and that we did not get along well, or that this attitude is simply not well interpreted by colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39970	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39971	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, we intervened in Article 26 in the position of 2nd and the position of 7th and they are not grammatical and interactive corrections, but probably by mistake the legislator failed to do so, because he says – when the competent authority finds that the facility, built on the ground unfavourable for construction, will inform the owner of the facility of the fact, that within 30 days carry out the delivery of evidence, and we have added – geological, geodetic, architectural and other relevant evidence, on the basis of which it can be established that the facility is stable, that it does not endanger the stability of the terrain and adjacent objects and in attitude 7, we have added, in the original vote – according to the legal conclusion of the procedure laid down in Article 4, the competent authority without delay, that it is in fact that we are well aware of the fact of the fact that the fact that the fact that the fact that we have been given to the fact that the fact that the fact that we have been given by the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39972	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 26th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39973	Dear citizens of Serbia, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the honourable minister, means, Article 26, we felt that Article 7 should be added to Article 8 which says that the competent authority is carrying out the process of destroying the facility within 30 days after the judicial end of the procedure. Considering that here in several places in this bill very arbitraryly and wrongly seems to me to define this obligation to what happens to certain cases and cases, when the ownership process is completed, or when a judicial prior procedure is completed, we come to the conclusion that there is no further role of the construction inspection. Even though we have repeatedly pointed out in the past few hours that it is very bad that with such a small number of construction inspectors moving into such serious affairs and in such a serious procedure, we felt that this flaw that is manifested here after the first crash decision, after the administrative procedure that is being conducted and after the administrative procedure has been completed remained to hang in this bill and that, later on, through very vague procedures, it is in some way an obligation for the building inspection to resolve this process, but we felt that we were improving this procedure, or to specify it. That is why we have suggested, again, that I am aware of all the difficult circumstances in which the construction inspection will work that precisely because of the double interpretation of their role and because very large penalties are foreseen for these people, which I say again, surely will not be able to complete these 12-month jobs that are planned for them and imposed on them to nevertheless, through the precision of this amendment in some way, point to those jobs that are important to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39974	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac and together Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen submitted to the 28th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the word is Master Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39975	Dear citizens of Serbia, Article 28 refers again to the procedures mentioned several times in the principle debate and today in the amendment debate, and the procedure concerns Article 5 of Items 3 and 4) which provide that the consent for the construction of cottages and the construction of houses in the First or Second Zone of Protection, Natural Protection, Cultural Protection, etc., works in a way that public enterprises and public institutions, managers of these premises, etc., is clear and agreeable to what is foreseen here in the law, which is that houses alleged for vacations and cottages can be legalized in belts where it has never been before. We felt that this entire article 28 should be deleted. Why? If there has never been a practice in Serbia so far that illegal construction in areas and in places that can directly endanger the health and safety of people who solve our natural resources, who violate laws and national parks, etc. We felt that this member should be deleted and clearly shown and sent a message that those people who built in such areas in areas of special purpose, special protection, were not meant to do so. The question is raised here – are we going to allow because of several individuals who have strengthened themselves, whether it is through participation in power, whether they have strengthened with their own financial capabilities to have an impact on the structures of this country, which Mr. Balša Bozovic has spoken of several times today, whether we are going to allow them to be stronger than both the state and the profession, to allow in this way the principle that will bring down this system and the citizens are aware that you are through the story of social justice by 60% or 80% of people who have houses up to 100 square meters in fact introduced a principle that has never been applied so far and that will bring down this law of course and the basic principles that you had in mind when you were making the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39976	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, therefore, a very important amendment and a very important and characteristic refusal of the assembly majority and the government of the Republic of Serbia. To understand me well, and to understand what my dear colleague was talking about and what my colleague Balša Bozovic was talking about on several occasions, it is said that this law allows these members to legalise facilities in the First and Second Protection Area. Translated into our language that we all understand each other is where none of us could build. Where they could build only privileged over decades. None, none, none of the ordinary citizens can give themselves the right and the courage to gather the courage to build a wall in the First Protection Zone. No one can do that. By passing the law, i.e. This member of the law allows it to be legal. There are no ordinary citizens in the first zone of protection. They don't exist. Only large political players of the present, former, and former, and former, formerly were able to build in those areas. No one could have walled by the lake if they didn't have a good political background. Now, this member of the law is legal. With this member of the law, it becomes legal and becomes a right. It is not respected that it must be eight or 16 meters away from the coast if the flood comes and they can enter the construction machinery, it is not respected. There's no respect for the national park zone where there could never be a cottage, so when you pass, you see and you tell who makes it here. He's no ordinary citizen. Now, this member of the law introduces it into legal flows and it becomes a legitimate object. That's why we supported this amendment and we support this amendment, because we will, we say we're making the state that it's right above the individual, and this member of the law becomes an individual above the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39978	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39979	Just to explain once again what the law really says, which is that there is no construction, no legislation in the protection belt of any public good. This means along roads, highways, railways, waterways, runways, etc. What it says is that it needs to get the opinion of the road manager and nature is that there are laws that also regulate what I said now stands in these other laws, on water, on nature protection, etc. So there's no building and there's no law in any public good's seat belt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39980	To Article 28... (Blagoje Bradić, from the post: By amendment. ) Do you want to follow this amendment again? Here you go, Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39981	Thank you. Madam Minister, if I understand you well that all those who have built on the surfaces of public purposes and who have a wild object on public purpose, all those who have in the national park zone, all those who have in areas that are beside rivers, lakes, accumulating lakes, in protected zones, means there is no way that there is no agreement that this cottage or holiday house remains whole that it will be torn down. Is that what you said? If that's what you said, then I apologize to you, I just don't want to be a witness in the next period to get you a building permit and get a used permit and be, as you say, legally legal. Someone can't go against the law and let some, I don't know, Watercraft, the Bathing National Park give consent to someone in the First Zone of Protection. Then what are these laws for? What black laws, then? What are we bringing here? I think that you colleagues should think nicely and make sure that you make sure that we adopt this amendment nicely, and then we'll be absolutely sure that something like this can't happen in the country of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39982	According to the amendment, MP Balša Bozovic has.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39983	As Mr. Bradic and Markovic well noted, does this mean simply and simply, that we no longer enter every point or every point, will you tear down the homes of the sons of the president of the Republic of Serbia or not? That's what we're interested in, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39984	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister, Replic, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39985	Let's do it again. Try Mr. Balsha to read the law. The law makes it very clear – no one can be legal if they are in the protection belt of public goods, including water streams. If you don't know what that means, ask someone to interpret it for you. I was very clear. You know, not only by name and last name, as you say, all those who built in the safety belt of roads, railways, waterways, runways can't be legal and now Mr. Bradic, now and to you, have no approval from the "Serbian" or the "Serbian" building site, not now, because neither by current law nor by past laws, nor by this law can they be legal. I'm going back. All I have to do is read the law. I know it's so much nicer to talk about it and make a play about whether the cottages of this or that, by name and last name, are going to be torn down, but the law is very clear about it, but the law is good and that the law finally solves the problem, solves the problem of a million and a half people. It's okay, we're in Parliament, and everything's allowed, but just to explain ourselves once again, read the law, and I explained, no one can be legal if it's in the protection belt of natural goods. No one. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39986	What replica, Mr. Bozovic? (Balša Bozovic, from town: She said – Mr Balša. Mr. Balsha? You used to criticize me here when I said something like that, so I can't take that as a basis for your replica. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: Don't you understand? ) The word has the People's MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39987	Thank you. So let me be clear enough. I try not to get my popularity in this House, and I don't know what I'm talking about. I told you nicely, when I first spoke on this amendment, that if I were wrong, and I wish I was wrong, I would tell you – well done by the Minister. But I don't want these words to be just a cover for something that won't happen. I have the right to express my fear. God forbid I'm wrong, and you're putting everything in the legal frameworks and we're the rule of law, that it's built only with a building permit, that's what I'd like. We'll talk in six months and in a year, so we'll see if all these illegal cottages, and thank God, we all know, in every place there's that, there's not just in Belgrade, there's not just Sava and Danube. There's also a Nisava on Tara, there's a Kopalnik, there's one on Zlatibor, so we'll go through the list and see if Blasko was right or Minister Zorana was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39988	Thank you. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39989	There is no name and last name of any law, no law on the legal name and last name. We're here to respect the law, not even talk about why it's not respected in the previous period. The law must be respected, the law states very clearly, this law does not have a sublaw, it will apply from its first to the last member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39990	Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted the 28th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, here we have responded to Section 8, which says: "After the judicially completed procedure, the decision of Article 5 of this article is delivered by the competent authority, without delay, to the construction inspection. “ Since it can be interpreted in both narrow and wide, we have given you three days, which you have accepted and I think it is quite fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39992	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović together submitted to the 29th amendment. The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39993	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the esteemed colleague and fellow Members, in fact this amendment is in fact a controversial amendment to Article 29, and on the basis of the amended Article 8. This amendment has not been accepted for us, but I think what we wanted to achieve is actually fulfilled through the acceptance of the amendment of fellow Babic. Just briefly to say that it is a procedure for objects for which there are no urban conditions and I think that the amendment of Article 8 has actually defined the deviations from the current planning documentation. Of course, this should have been applied in Article 29, where a co-consequently applied proposal to amend fellow Babic. I think what we suggested is actually what my colleague Babic wanted to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39994	Thank you. Members of the 29th amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39995	Respected citizens of Serbia, in Article 29(2), it is said that in the event that the competent authority finds that the purpose of an illegally built facility is not in line with the purpose established by the current plan document, etc., then the final part of that position says that the flooring is higher than four floors or three floors and a attic, if the current plan document does not provide maximum flooring in the urban zone, the competent authority will reject the request by means of a solution. Then there's a few other points of view. We have suggested that in the new position of 6 a sentence be added, which says – according to the judicial end of the procedure, the competent authority conducts the process of destroying the facility within 30 days. Bearing in mind that the final position of this member is defined and says this, according to the judicial end of the procedure, the decision of the 2nd member's position, the competent authority delivers within three days to the construction inspection. Again, I would like to underline that all the time, both in principle debate and in the amendment debate, we have indicated that the application of this law is almost impossible, among other things, and because there are only 300 construction inspectors in Serbia who cannot solve a million and a half cases in a year. We asked to extend this deadline to 24 months of their census and conduct. What is particularly defined through this article is what happens when practically the second time the authorities of the administration determine that the facility is illegally built, is it because of the bad material, that there is no stability, that the ground is bad, etc., is there then the procedure being suspended and nothing is done or is the inspection order for this facility to collapse? According to this proposal, as you have done, it is again in the situation that the building inspector is being informed, but his conduct is not required, and therefore the precision of this attitude is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39996	Thank you. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac and together by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39997	The situation is similar with Article 30. We have suggested that, behind the 5th position, which says that according to the judicial end of the procedure, the solution set out in Article 2, the competent authority shall be delivered to the construction inspection within three days. We don't think that's enough, we think that just because we say in Uzic you have two building inspectors, and 10,000 requirements for legalisation at this point and about 8,000 requirements that haven't been filed for non-recorded objects, this job will be impossible to do. If we were to define the role of the building inspector in this way and, in this way, with the proposal that we made in the amendment, we would commit both them and the city administration, and all the other authorities to act on an urgent procedure in this case and to collapse, then it would be a seriousness. With this approach, as you have already established in this law, you have made such a solution that practically there will be no destruction, you have introduced through this law at a small door the possibility that all those people who have built very large, huge objects, and that is said in this article here, will practically still be able to do the same. They, as Mr Balša Bozovic spoke today, and we have pointed out several times, and Mrs Vukkovic, and we have talked about it all, and we have pointed out that the biggest problem of this law and the application of this law is that you have given the people who made hundreds and thousands of squares at very attractive locations in Zlatibor, Belgrade, on mountains, on lakes, etc. the opportunity to enforce legislation through this law, but there is no end. As you suggest, they will be able to continue the work, they will be able to continue to build, they will have some report that you requested from the responsible designer or contractor here, and that will be all. They'll be able to build on, they'll be able to raise floors, you won't have an answer, a solution to their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39998	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u39999	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I know that the Democratic Party is only destroying and that the destruction is something that only they know how to do. That's how they took down the whole system and the whole state, so now they'd do it wherever they came and wherever they could. If we look closely at Article 3, paragraph 30, he says there is a 15-day period of appeal. Why would we do something urgent and take down something? Let's go straight to everyone and to the right to appeal. First that. Second of all, not everyone is a controversial object. So, those 18,000, as far as you're saying for the Uzices, aren't all very controversial from this category, so the building inspectors won't be able to do their part of the work relating to the specifications of the article. 29 and 30. Secondly, these objects were built at the time of your reign and your authority. (National MP Jovan Markovic throws out of place. Well, they didn't turn up like mushrooms after the rain. Please don't lecture us here that these objects have come up overnight. Well, where were those building inspectors of yours to react when the first Ash was stabbed in the ground and the first plate was poured out? Please get serious and don't deceive the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40000	Thank you. I thought you stood up now to apologize for throwing [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have the right to reply.]] How are you right? [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have the right to reply.]] You're not mentioned, Mr. Markovic. Again, I thought you stood up now to apologize for throwing yourself during Mrs. Rakonjac's presentation. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: I seek the same basis for the right to a replica by which you gave the SNS MPs. That's not true, Mr. Markovic. You know my rule very well, just in case someone was mentioned by name and last name. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: You just gave it. That's not true. In just one case, which is currently being checked, I'm waiting to get my rock notes, so let's talk about it. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40001	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with Associates, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have here a situation that is in the final position of Article 30, identical to Article 5(6). So, the exact same text. Really, absolutely identical. I can truly accept with respect the answer you gave when I asked that question to Article 5(6) when you said - these objects will be listed. I was thinking of these facilities where the owners filed a motion, denied application, filed a complaint, denied appeal, conducted a administrative dispute, completed. I would only ask you here for one really, first of all, a well-intentioned suggestion, but one, so to speak, a favor to local self-government, when local self-government comes into this situation, since, say, Užice, mentioned by colleague Jovan Markovic, a city from which I come, in a situation that has a huge number of object owners who are precisely in this status, really in this status. In particular, with me in my village, which is a suburban settlement, there are many owners of objects that have such status, that they have filed a request, that they have been rejected, that they have had certain shortcomings, that they have even committed abuses, that they have conducted administrative disputes, that they have established their claim for administrative action, and now they come into this situation as they come. They're really a lot on the record, and if only their facilities are written, and they don't get into a situation where they act on their own in front of the administration's competent authorities, it's gonna be a problem because they're gonna get in a situation where they're nowhere. Therefore, I would ask that there be one instructive opinion of the ministry towards local self-government, in terms of work instructions or instructions on the application of the law, whatever it is called, how to work in these situations. In such situations, the party's right to address the competent authority must be respected unless the party's competent authority recognises it as being interested in mutilating its object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40002	Thank you. The word is Mr. Jovan Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40003	Replica, it's not an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40004	How, Mr. Markovic, the replica? Where did Mr. Jovanovic mention you in any way?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40005	Are you present here? Really, are you present in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40006	Did you mention Mr. Markovic's name and last name? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Užice, I said – as Mr Markovic said, in a positive sense. Then all right, I didn't hear that. It was positive, so I didn't register. Then you have a word, Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40007	Give me back my time, if you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40008	You need to re-apply. I apologize for not hearing someone commend you, but it is a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40009	Mr. Chairman, this isn't just about whether or not my colleague mentioned me. You're not listening again. I'm talking to you, and you're not listening to me. So it's not about whether or not he commended me. A colleague, Jovanovic, opened a very important topic. What he was talking about is essential, not only for this member, but also for the application of this law and what our experience is...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40010	Mr. Markovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40011	Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40012	Well, I have to interrupt, because you still don't understand what replica and the basis for getting the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40013	It's not that he praised me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40014	If you have received a replica, Mr Jovanovic has in some way offended you and you must replicate it to him. You are not talking about the agenda, but you must replicate Mr. Jovanovic, because you believe that he has offended you with his exposure. It's a basis for replication. If you otherwise think the Rules of Procedure prescribes, that's your problem, not ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40015	So you have to understand. Give me back my time. You're taking my time again...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40016	I can't understand what you only understand in this room. So I understand what the other MPs understand, what the Rules of Procedure prescribe, and you're the only one in this room who understands something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40017	But, Chairman, you don't listen to what a man says. I want to focus here right now on what the subject is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40018	Mr. Markovic, did Mr. Jovanovic insult you with his exposure and misread your exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40019	Well, it's not just about whether he misread me... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40020	I'm sorry, it's not worth it to you in any way... (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Give me back my time.) I can't pay you back, Mr. Markovic. You have received a replica to replicate Mr Jovanovic because you believe that your exposure and mentioning your name offended you, but you are now saying that this is not the case, but that he has opened an important topic that you would like to discuss with the minister now. That, Mr. Markovic, can't. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, not all MPs can do so. You're the only one here looking for some special rules all the time. In every debate where you think you need to discuss, you're looking for some special rules. That when you are the majority here, when you prescribe and amend the Rules of Procedure, and that your rules, and that your understanding of the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentism, when you put it into that Rules of Procedure, then you will be able to discuss it that way. Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40021	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to Article 32, paragraph 1 and Article 5. Article 1 is amended as follows: ‘When the competent authority determines the fulfilment of the previous conditions for the law and the existence of an appropriate right within the meaning of this law, it shall continue the legal procedure within the meaning of Article 11(1) of this Act and shall inform the owner of the unlawfully designed facility that, within 30 days of the date of delivery of the notice, it shall submit a report with an embossed geodetic paper, or verify whether those evidence has been supplied in the legalisation process of the illegally built objects. “ We suggest that this position reads: “The competent authority, once it has obtained a report on the situation found, will request from the owner of an illegally built facility a report with a geodetic work embodies and, after examining whether the evidence provided in Article 11 of this Law has been delivered, determines the fulfilment of the legal requirements under this law. ” And Article 5, which states: “After the judicial end of the procedure, the conclusion of Article 2, the competent authority, without delay, delivers the decision to the construction inspection. “ We have suggested that this be said: “After the judicially completed procedure, the conclusion of Article 2 of this Article is delivered by the competent authority to the construction inspection within three days of the date of the conclusion. “ You refused our amendment with an explanation not to accept it because it is imprecise. I don't understand why we're inaccurate when we're in attitude 5. And since the amendment cannot be accepted in part, no proposal has been accepted to amend the position of the 5th member to specify the deadline. Please reconsider and accept the entire amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40022	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. Mr. Markovic, may I have your attention, please? Since we had one misunderstanding here, you and the other MPs have convinced us of something that is not true, I have one and the other rock notes, meaning where Mrs Ivana Stojiljkovic did not mention Mr Markovic and Jovan Markovic at any time. Here's what I'll give you. You can take a look. Secondly, we also have rock notes where it is said – unless one of the amendment's promoters had in mind his large pasture on the Vrakar at the temple of St. Sava. Also, it's not about Jovan Markovic, it's about one of the promoters. You claimed that Mr. Atlagic was talking about you. So, in both cases where you claimed that I as chairman didn't listen carefully, where something else was said, I have proof in the rock notes that you weren't telling the truth. Here, you can look, I'd like to ask you next time to listen carefully and not think that someone has something against you all the time, just trying to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I say? You can't tell – because I have proof that you're not telling the truth, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It is a completely different story. Well, well, you're, quite another story, you said you were talking about you, here I have proof that it was said - if one of the promoters. You also said that it was said that Mrs Stojiljkovic mentioned you, I also have in her statement that she did not mention Mr Jovan Markovic at any time. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It is not true. Well, you did say, now you say you didn't say. Well, then why did you seek the basis for the replica if you didn't say, Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I say? You can't. Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: it is not true at all. Can I say? ) Well, do you want to convince me that it is not true, why don't you convince all the other MPs who listened all the time where you asked for a basis for the replica because you were mentioned in Ms Stojljkovic's presentation and where you also tried several times to prove that Mr Atlagic told you about this pasture on Vrakar? Here is what I claimed and what Mr Atlagic claimed was well said. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: Can I say? You can, but when I give my word to the next speaker. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Comic. That the line wants a word? No, I don't. I thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40023	Respected citizens of Serbia, Article 33(2) sets out two fees to be paid in the Republic's local budget and to which extent. We felt that the tax of 5,000 dinars was insufficient to direct that fee fully at 100% according to local administration and that the money was later directed towards infrastructure. Here we heard the minister who said that most of the 60% or 70% of this money would be directed to the local administration, but first it has to be paid into the Republic budget, and then afterwards it will reportedly return to the local budget. In view of the experience in these three or four years of work of this government, when local administrations are constantly imposed on some new powers, new competences and reduced revenues, reduced transfers, we simply cannot believe that this money will be, the money that will be additional money compared to what now exists, in terms of tax collection, transfers coming from local administrations, monitoring projects that are important for the development of local administrations, and we believe that in a 100% amount this money should be directed into the local budget. Then, item 3 after the word "100 square meters" is suggested to stand tight, to replace it with a dot, and the rest of the text to be deleted. And, with regard to Article 3, to add a 4th position after it – for the auxiliary and economic facilities of the tax under Article 1 of this article is paid in the amount of two thousand dinars, and for the facilities up to 50 meters square and three thousand dinars, i.e. for more than 50 metres square three thousand dinars. Given that auxiliary facilities such as garages, leave, etc. are also planned for legalisation under Article 3 and Article 1 of this Act, we believe that it is good that these fees are reduced primarily by rural populations and that all those objects that can, on this basis, be with reduced taxes, so that they offer an amount of two or three thousand dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40024	Thank you. The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go, Mrs. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40025	Thank you, Your Honor, President. I'm reporting by amendment. A colleague who spoke before me has just submitted an amendment to Article 2 where the simple conflict of his opinion is personal, where he says that the reference in the sense of erasing Article 2 is therefore not a public interest in the Republic of Serbia, and now simply through some questions I will give him an answer. He says -- on the day of the law, a thousand-and-a-half, excuse me million and 500 thousand illegal objects of public interest for the Republic of Serbia? Yeah. Is the payment of fees for the law and tax on property and only the increase of the public income of local self-government units in the territory of the Republic of Serbia a public interest in the Republic of Serbia? Yeah. Is the creation of conditions for spatial planning and rational use of building land a public interest in the Republic of Serbia? Yeah. Is it possible for owners of illegally built facilities to have legalized facilities that are listed in a public book of greater market values? Yeah. Is the regulation of the real estate market a public interest in the Republic of Serbia? Yeah. Is law enforcement of objects that solves a major problem that has a wider economic impact on the socio-national economy and the state budget has a public interest in the Republic of Serbia? Yeah. I simply will not accept such an amendment in the voting day because I have submitted under Article 2 to delete Article 2 because it is not in the public interest of the Republic of Serbia, and now by changing a member where he simply objectes because local self-government does not win. Well, it's all in the interest of both the Republic of Serbia and local self-government. So, should we accept a amendment like this? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40026	Thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and the magistrate, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted together to the 33rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40027	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, tax from the position of the first member - is paid in favour of the unit of local self-government and that is what is the subject of our amendment. We have made it clear in our explanation that this amendment complies with the provisions of this law with the Law on Local Self-Government. As Mr. Jovan Markovic said, local self-government often received new burdens in terms of new powers without new funds. In this way, not only would local self-government be damaged, but local self-government would have a little more resources in its budgets so that all those obligations that you have passed on to them to transfer their responsibility to some of the presidents of municipalities and mayors, they might now have a chance to get out of this. Ten thousand square meters, for example, on Zlatibor, fifty million dinars is savings. For ten thousand squares, fifty million dinars have been damaged by the local budget under this law. When we take just the case of a local self-government in Serbia, for example in Paracino. The president of the Sasa Paunovic municipality phenomenally wrote an open letter to the ministry and the government, in the first zone for a thousand square metres of business space, 4.3 million dinars are saved. In the first zone, three million dinars are saved for a thousand squares of living space. You save the rich, and you charge the poor and that's what the DS is up against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40028	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word has the People's Messenger George Chabarkapa. Have you given up Mr. Chabarkapa? (Yes) Then the word of the Messenger of the people is Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40029	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will, since we have heard the explanation that we have heard, or not the minimum interest of the promoters in what the amendment itself is, then simply to say that I cannot accept the amendment, or that I support the argument that we have received from the Government, without any further concern as to how much interest it shows which amendment is proposing, I think it is enough to get it in the same way and on the other hand. But two more comments, this great concern for the budget of local self-government and their role in the whole process. First, first of all, we're talking about the category of objects that these local self-governments have so far had no use for. What's the point? To apply the solution provided for by this law so that some benefit can be seen, or to return to the wonderful state where that benefit was round zero. Who here cares about what he's saying, and does he understand what he's saying, is probably the real question? The other thing, as far as local self-government issues are concerned, whether they should be burdened with something extraordinary, is whether, in principle, we talked about it, and in principle, now this is about some sort of god-given responsibility and guilt, I think it points to only one thing. The understanding of matter and the knowledge of that law that has dealt with this problem so far will be that it is equally high, or equal to that same zero. It's obvious that whoever gives himself the right to use big words and is persistently trying to estradise has no precise idea of the role of local self-government in this process so far. If there's any more notes, there'll be answers on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40030	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Since Mr. Cabarkapa has given up, you have a word, Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40031	I thank the chairman. I would refer to the discussion of a respected colleague, Orlic, while correcting a respected colleague of Bozovic, given that there was an unintentional lapus, Jovan Markovic did not speak about the burden of the budget of units of local self-government, I spoke of it. I just have to support that the solution provided for in Article 33 is a correct solution, given that the units of local self-government in this way are receiving appropriate funds and thus filling the budgets, which is in the utmost interest of local self-government units. I'm starting with Uzic, which, as far as the budget is concerned, I'm going to use one pessimistic term "scared", literally like that, and I think you know it and how well you know it. What I wanted to do for correction, to find out, it just seems to me that after the law comes into force, we are in a situation that the units of local self-government will pay the corresponding costs to their budgets and to those who, unfortunately, this time I will say unfortunately, don't deserve it. Those against whom even a criminal offence for the illegal work of construction was conducted, so it was suspended, and I said, not to repeat a hundred times the same thesis, and those who went through both administrative procedures and administrative disputes, and negatively ended all of what they did for them, they would be in a position to pay on the budget units of local self-government the corresponding costs they had borne. Could there be any sublegal act in this direction that would define something that would not devise the essence of this law when it comes to law enforcement, because we all need it, and also perfectly clear that this process of law is inescapable, but the question arises – are those who have undoubtedly acted against the law, I am talking only now about illegality, should they be those to whom something will be returned? In criminal law, there is one institute that really points out that if the law is more favourable to the defendant than the two rules of law, than criminal law, the one more favourable to the defendant is actually applied, but there is no such situation here. Here is the situation where the accused, perjuratively speaking, or transmittedly did what he did, acted unlawfully, and we reward him in such a way that we will recognise his costs even though he was legally rejected in his request, which means that the costs were borne on his own burden, which is entirely justified, that is, founded. I would ask you only to consider it in this direction because indeed neither Belgrade nor Kragujevac nor Nis nor Novi Sad nor Užice nor any city has a single valid reason for those in the budget to return something they themselves have done. Only where the responsible authority's fault was, the local self-government units, where there was silence of the administration, where the competent authorities were not acting in accordance with the law, so the owners of the objects that are now subject to the law suffered, and in this situation they really needed to pay the costs they were carrying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40032	Thank you. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Replica. ) Mr Bozovicu, the right to replica has Mr Markovic because he is mentioned. He mentioned Mr. Markovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Bozovic said. And he mentioned you? Okay. First, Mr. Markovic, then you. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40033	Mr Jovanovic, when I was talking about the distribution of these funds, about a taxi to local administrations, I was kind of talking about other local administrations, but perhaps I was thinking mostly about the Užica budget and the fact that in the last three years, the budget is getting smaller and smaller every year, that there is no support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia for many of the projects that are needed to finish there, that there is no new job, any new ideas opening there to end some infrastructure affairs, including the lack of money. So when you analyze the state of the budget of local administrations in the last three or four years, you will see that local administrations have received new commitments, that they have received new powers, and that there is no support to solve infrastructure problems, development issues, etc., that is not the case. If we were to come into a situation where we could turn things around now and at least put this money that citizens are investing in legislation to local administrations, I think that local administrations would go further into development and invest that money in certain projects that are important. If the state has not allocated anything for local administrations in the past four years, then it is the order and that at least what is charged as a tax at local level because there is also the activity of local administrations, construction inspections, urban administrations, etc. In order for this law to be applied, it is perfectly normal and logical for that money to remain there. So it's particularly important to stress that this experience that we had, and the town of Uzice is perhaps the most obvious example, indicates that there was no government support, that all development projects in the previous period were stopped, that there was neither professional nor material help to complete certain jobs, and that's why I was talking about this problem in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40034	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40035	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Neđo Jovanovic obviously misunderstood my interpretation of it, or the amendments we submitted as DS MPs. We first said that the tax is paid in favour of local self-government units. You said – no; and in the bill itself, Article 33(2) states that certain funds are to be paid, i.e. fees on the budget of local self-government. Yeah, but 70%. Thirty percent go to the Republic. How is it possible for the Republic to transfer to local self-government and not transfer funds? With some local self-government, no single dinar has been paid by the very republic that owes the AP Vojvodina, not only to local self-governments, and often to the city of Belgrade. What's going on? It happens that they transfer powers, they don't transfer funds and then they let them get so hopped up in their incompetence, especially some new ones that have been set up lately, and here the tax is paid all in 70% of the local self-government, and our amendment has been, quite frankly, no confusion, I know that you had the best intention, that this tax is paid in 100% to the local budget, because we believe that the local budget is the one that is damaged, especially in these times of crisis when the Government of Serbia is solving its inability by taking all its resources and leaving them with the burden on their back. Then it is those who continue to spend the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course, as they think they should. We've seen what it looks like in the last four years. But, and in that case, let's once principledly protect those people at the bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40036	The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40037	I thank the chairman. I was very clear and precise, so I absolutely do not see the need for a different interpretation of what I said, except as I said, and that is – the protection of the budget of local self-government units. The SPS parliamentary group, and I myself, we think this member is secure. Which is why 100% inflow of funds would go to the budget of local self-government units, when we have in mind one notor fact that behind this law is a proponent on behalf of the Government, which is a resolute ministry, which will carry out a certain kind of supervision of this law and which will monitor the implementation of all mechanisms relating to the law of the facilities. It is not a small 70% inflow into the budget of local self-government units, given what kind of facilities are involved and given the construction of cash amounts to be paid in the name of the tax. It wasn't in any way a motive for me to answer, and now it's doing precision exactly what I'm pointing out. The motive for which I responded was precisely the motive which the distinguished minister recognized – we have among the abolized owners of the facilities and those who, in fact, provide themselves with a certain benefit by means of illegal action. It was my motive, not in any way to confront one thing that's perfectly clear, which is the protection of the budget of local self-government units. As far as Užica is concerned, both me and Mr Markovic and distinguished colleague Ivana Stojiljković is concerned that we are fighting for the city, not to lead the polemics in this House, because our task is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40038	Time. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place:...) to lead only that story that has a political dimension so that the town of Užice deserves the attention of both the Governments of the Republic of Serbia and all institutions... Yes, you have the right to a replica, Mr. Markovic, because Mr. Jovanovic does not know otherwise to replicate without mentioning your name and name. Here you go. (Zoran Babic, from the place: What is this? Do you have a congregation of Uzics? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40039	I don't know why my colleague Babic's reaction and others to this mention of "Lives"...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40040	Because Uzice is not the topic of the agenda. You and Mr. Jovanovic deliberately mention each other to conduct a debate on Užica rather than on the agenda. But, please, you're formally right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40041	Can I have the time again?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40042	No, I don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40043	But why do you interrupt me every time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40044	I need to answer the question you asked me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40045	So, I don't know why the reactions on the other hand are so bad from fellow Babic and other MPs, if I am here, in some way, called not to deal with political issues and that some others do it in a better way, then I just have to answer. So, all the time I represent the interests of not only the citizens of Užica, but also of all other Serbian citizens, and in this case local administrations, which for the last three years have experienced that precisely because of the haughtiness and one bad relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, public enterprises, institutions, do not meet obligations, commitments that exist in local budgets are accumulated, local administrations are in charge of elemental functioning. And not only is there no development, and not only is there no development projects in any local administration, but there is a general stagnation and feedback going on. And for all this time, the government of the Republic of Serbia as its way of acting on local self-government has new commitments, new taxes, new powers and abolishing revenues.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40046	Mr. Markovic, you have not received a replica to the Government of the Republic of Serbia but to Mr. Jovanovic, and please address him and explain why you consider him to have offended you, which is why you received the basis for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40047	Mr. Chairman, your attempt to make several interruptions every time on my show is really inadmissible...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40048	Just to get you back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40049	It's really inadmissible, and I think after what you're doing today, you should read the stenograms and say at the next session that it wasn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40050	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Every time I read you the stenograms and found out you weren't telling the truth. There's nothing else I can do except what I did. If you're saying that I'm writing steno-books and not these girls sitting here, I'm accepting it, too, and it's not a problem. Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40051	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I am advocating Article 103 and Article 106. The Rules of Procedure – the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. With all due respect, the previous speaker spoke to me so that it looks like the stories of Grandma Djurovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40052	Mr. Risticevic, you didn't listen very carefully either. The speaker is entitled to a replica. Right to the replica can speak out of order, but it was still meant to talk about the debate between him and Mr Jovanovic, and not, as you noticed, about something else entirely. Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40053	Since it is constantly said that development projects have stopped, as nothing is done, the data of the Republic Statistics Institute for Serbian citizens, and not of DS representatives, since they obviously do not trust official data, says this - the index of the estimated value of works in September 2015 is higher by 238% compared to September 2014, therefore, the index of the estimated value of works. Then on – issued building permits in September, this is the best third quarter in the last eight years since construction permits were issued and this is the result of the legislation passed by this parliament, including the Law on Planning and Construction. So, nothing stands, just the rules and order that didn't exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40054	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40055	Thank you. I am glad that we have broken this circle of replicas and that we have returned to another amendment and I am free to say, another bad amendment, but not according to the very text that stands in the amendment, but in order to deceive the citizens of Serbia, because if the former government wanted to do good to the citizens of Serbia, there would be no million and a half illegal objects, there would be no city in Serbia in which no legalisation request has been filed. Why, gentlemen, didn't you bring the job to an end? You had five laws on legalization, when you could also charge taxes on city building land and administrative fees and a tax on enrollment of buildings in the cadastre. You could have made a lot of money to local self-government. Why do you want now, when we want to draw the line for the first time and list which objects do not pay or tax on property, no tax in the Republic of Serbia, why this time you want to throw sand in the eyes of citizens? If you wanted to finish your job by the end, you would have ended it long ago and local self-government would have a much higher income than they will now have and 100% of their revenue from the billing would have been paid into the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40056	Thank you. The word is by MP Natasa Vukkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40057	Thank you. About throwing sand into the eyes, I would only ask someone to answer – why has there been no progress in the application of the Law on Legalisation since 2013? Why did it take you so long to get this job started? Why haven't you applied the Law since 2013, or since 2012, since you've been in power? That's the main question right now. You don't have to go five, six, 15 years back anymore. So it's a question for you – why didn't you use it? That's a very important and crucial question. That is why we do not know if we can trust you and whether the citizens of Serbia can trust you to apply this law as well. That's the key question for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40058	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Katarina Rakic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40059	I would prefer to answer this question, since the 2013 law was the consequence, because the Constitutional Court knocked down an unconstitutional law, the 2003-2009 law, and it was a law that was in itself. We had one law that at the same time provided that illegal construction was a crime and that all those who build illegally in Serbia should be arrested under the same law. Also, according to that law, you can build objects, or you can legalize objects. Of course, that the provisions of that law, I am sorry that you do not remember it or have a partial memory, or that you want to throw sand at the citizens of Serbia again, the Constitutional Court shot down and that there was a vacuum in time and that the law that was passed in 2013 was the result of the Constitutional Court having knocked down one, in a series of bad laws that you have passed. I'm sorry you don't remember after two years, so let me remind you of that. What I can also tell you is that according to this law, although citizens could report their facilities by the end of February 2014, 1,850 facilities were legalized. I have a precise number of objects that have been legalized under that law ever since. Can you tell me how many objects were legalized from 2003 to 2009 when you had the law? How many objects are legalized? How much did you arrest those who built on the wild? How many of you arrested those who issued building permits? How many have you arrested those who worked on counters or told people not to legalize their facilities, but to wait for the next and next law? You answer to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40060	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Natasa Vučković, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40061	Two years did not move forward in the application of the 2013 law. That's the essential thing. The other thing, what we are saying is that this law will produce such discrimination and such unequal treatment and will lead citizens, investors in such an unequal position that, I'm afraid, the Constitutional Court will find it difficult to resist a legal logic to evaluate this law in the same way. I have the next question - what will you do when you are approached by an investor who, for example, During the last month, he paid compensation for the construction land in accordance with the rules to be paid? Let's take one of Belgrade's central municipalities or the centre of Novi Sad or the centre of Nis, it doesn't matter, who paid what they pay for when they want someone to build in accordance with the law and when for the same square, let's say from 1,000 to 1500 square meters, if someone builds a market facility, now for an illegally raised facility an investor will pay a fee of up to four and a half, or 10,000 euros at this point, according to your bill. What are you going to do when this investor who has built and obtained your permit to recover funds, or what will you do when the European Court of Human Rights finds that citizens are not in the same position in the Republic of Serbia? Are you going to have to return those funds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40062	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go, Mrs. Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40063	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, I would just like to point out what concerns about the citizens were during Dulic's law in 2010 and simply how much it cost legalisation in the first zone in Novi Sad. Fourteen thousand and 500 dinars per square, in Belgrade 11434 dinars and in the famous Paracina of 3,500 dinars. Therefore, I want to go back to the amendment, because this has so far not been subject to the amendment, so I am interested in how much has been included in local self-government units at the time, and how has it been cleared of Serbia from couples who have received local self-government, by legalising facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40064	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40065	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I did not notice that yesterday, representatives of "Leonie", who opened the drive and the possibility of hiring 1500 people, had something against this bill, that any of the major investors expressed any problem or any criticism, when it comes to the law. So don't listen to much concern about investors here, when we're going to have over a billion and 200 million foreign investments this year. My colleague Rakić literally drew you and Empirical gave you the data, and she presented to you what it was to be obtained by implementing this law, what it was in 2013 until today, and God, well and what it was from 2000 to 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40066	Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 33 by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I ask the Minister to plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40067	Thank you very much. We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40068	I find that the Government's representative has accepted the amendment to Article 33, which is the floor of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Slobodan Homen. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go, Mr. Gursich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40069	Thank you, Chairman. Please include this time for over two minutes in the time of the president of the parliamentary group. So, the essence of our amendment to Article 33 is to solve exactly one of the injustices this law carries, and it's not at all about this story of a million-and-a-half illegal buildings, family houses, wells and things like that. There's no helping ordinary citizens. Article 33 of the 7-to-end Article provides for a fee for the law of housing and residential facilities intended for the market. So it's meant for the market, somewhere where someone's going to make a profit. So, not that someone was solving the roof over his head, so he couldn't legalize because there were no urban plans or it wasn't a valid administration or it wasn't the ones who ruled the country until 2012 and everything else, but those who built for the market. Those who built for the market will now, instead of taxes, pay compensation for the construction land, pay a billing fee from 500,000 to 3,000,000 dinars. That's 10, 20, 30 times less than what they had to pay under the current laws, instead of legally building. This is about making extra profits to those who made buildings for the market. A Vesna Rakonjac, from the city: In your time. In our day, how he throws someone out of the O.R. and the chairman doesn't react, but also in today's day. Now to go to Belgrade, two kilometers from here, we'll see what's going on, where it's being built illegally, you'll see that all investors, knowing what's in this bill, who have licenses, knowing that two floors can step away from the plan, have built two floors up. They work nights, people. I understand them, especially those who got permission and paid all the fees, and then saw this law, and they said, "Wait, what I'm gonna look stupid, I'm gonna come up with two more floors, under this law I'm gonna be able to legalize apartments and make a profit for myself, and someone doesn't have urban conditions, doesn't meet... Building's being built without a garage right now. The garages are turning into apartments so it can go to market. So now El Dorado is in Belgrade and other cities. What's the essence of our amendment is, not these taxes, but let's say half of what they were supposed to pay. Half. Although I don't understand why half, the right to tell you, why should we have so much understanding for those who build residential business facilities designed for the market? They're not solving their problem, they're making extra profits today, and they're going to make it, I don't know, by the end of the year, as this law says. The story is December 29th, that's when the painting will take place. They know everything, people. By December 29th, they're building, they're building, they're doing time on their hands. He left the law, he says – until the end of the year. I don't know, Minister, can you tell us here what day it will be? That's our problem with this law. Not to solve the problems of citizens who have built the last 10, 15, five years, but those who are building now, who have built in the last two years, knowing that they will end up paying off. There was talk here about how the previous laws were implemented. So how successful or unsuccessful. But the minister here, when she came, two days ago, said an amazing sentence to me. The minister said – in deciding whether to go to a single cut called raising criminal charges or to find a way to solve this issue, we have just defined ourselves for this law. So, you said that you didn't want to enforce the law, that those who build wild are criminally punished. Not the one who built the house 20, 15 years ago, but the ones who are now building wilds, who are going to make a huge amount of money from what instead of a construction fee, will pay this fee less than 20, 30 times, damage the budget, primarily local self-government. I believe in ten times the amount of what we think we're going to charge with this law. These pairs of local self-government need to build infrastructure in these cities, roads, schools, plumbing, sewers. Where is this going to come from now? We make people extra profits here. We don't think that's the essence of this law. We accept that this remains at the beginning, these first seven members who speak about what taxes are for housing, for people who solve the problem of their existence, but this part is totally unacceptable. I repeat, this part we're asking to delete, that's the division of housing buildings intended for the market from 500 to 1,000 and then from 1,500, so over 1,500, just three, I'm saying, only three million over 1,500 square meters can be 5,000 square meters, it can be 15,000 square meters. And now you're going to tell someone instead of me not even know how many tens of millions he's supposed to pay, you've prescribed a tax of three million dinars. We find this deeply unfair and it is one of the key reasons why we cannot accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40070	Thank you. The word has a minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40071	Let me explain. I absolutely can't agree with the finding that the Ministry has failed to implement and does not implement the law. We're the only ministry that's been going into the demolition process for the past year, and that's the only ministry in the past 10 years that's really been doing it, according to national parks, so all that's in the ministry's jurisdiction. All that jurisdiction was local inspection or city inspections, as far as it wasn't possible, or as far as local inspections weren't doing their job, then she performed with supervision and the Republic Building Inspectorate. After all, we mentioned all day today several examples, where the Republic Building Inspector was also acting and acting by law and giving solutions to the collapse. So, and how we've implemented the law, but given the serious big problem, we've defined ourselves for this law. So, let me explain a little sentence that you have stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40072	Thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Nikolic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 33a be added after article 33a. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40073	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm talking about 33. For the simple reason that the Constitutional Court's conclusion is quite clear that legal builders cannot be discriminated against against the lawless, by forgiving the payment of the legal fees. This is what Mr. Marko Djurisic was talking about for a moment, and this is what we mention all day long as opposition MPs, which is why someone is forgiven, not half and not half and not 10 or 20 times less, but those who did not respect the law and were illegally building, only on one occasion, in Zlatibor, saves millions of euros. That's the corruption we were talking about. On one case only, we have the names "Kings of the Ends", we have the PKK Zlatibor, we have at the center... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40074	Time's up, Mr. Bozovic, your group of MPs has no time left. Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Ninoslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Brdić and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Do you want a word? Branka Karavidic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40075	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This article shall be governed by the procedure when the competent authority determines that there is the possibility of the law of illegally built buildings. It is provided for, inter alia, that, after the judicial end of the procedure, the rejection of the requirements are to be concluded if the owner of an illegally constructed facility does not provide evidence of a paid taxi within the prescribed time limit, to the competent construction inspection. In our opinion, the deadline has been missed, and we have made a proposal to the Government in the given position that the deadline should be three days from the date of the conclusion. I think it's a good thing the government has heard this amendment, because this law itself will be more precise and enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40076	Thank you, Mrs. Karavidic. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40077	Respected citizens of Serbia, in Article 34, says in the first position – when the competent authority finds that there is a possibility of legislation to provide notice within 15 days to pay the legal fees prescribed by this law. There are a lot of provisions in this article that are later specified. We felt that it was necessary to delete item 7 of point 4 and to delete item 9 of this article. The main reasons were that the proposed amendment prevents the legalisation of illegally built residential business buildings, where legalization of only one physical piece would put an end to the collapse and devising the application of this law, as well as the Law on Planning and Construction. My colleagues were just talking about how selective this law is and how harmful the consequences of this law are, when you have big investments where people in the past few years have been very consciously building buildings where they have the support of local authorities, above all. We are now in a situation to say, the prime minister said a few days ago that the tax on the application of this law would be 5,000 dinars, Serbian citizens immediately refer to that fact and it is said -- nothing else will be needed. We later have procedures, including this statement required here, a projector's statement, geodetic plans, responsible contractors, no one's saying how much it costs. Is it because someone has changed the conditions of construction, expanded their construction, now that part of the facility will be destroyed or will it be legal? So, through this amendment that we offer, we give a solution and how to solve the problem and poop the object on that basis collapses.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40078	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40079	Mr. Chairman, the billing of millions and 500 000 objects is indeed a big, big and serious job, a job of national importance, not only because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the millions and 500 000 families will receive higher value facilities, not only because they will be able to resuscitate these properties and dispose of them, but also because we will become a more orderly state. A country that will be much easier to plan and build infrastructure facilities, because like this, without legal objects, without plotted objects, how can you plan any infrastructure facility? Not at all. You don't know if that route you're planning will run into any of the millions and 500 illegal objects, or objects without a building permit. What this amendment requires is that the application for legislation is determined by a simple white paper A4 format, just like this one, maybe the other side to save, so it doesn't have to, the other old one to be used and maybe in a pen without any, without a ruler, to just draw a sketch, about, like when children are playing. Do you think a building facility, whatever the surface area is, up to 100 or over 100, one house can be drawn, that it can apply for legislation without what the amendment promoter predicted, which is the name, last name, because I think it's necessary to have a clue and who it is, the number of the license of entrepreneurs or the name of a company, or another legal person who made the report on the found state of the facility? According to this proposal, the amendment promoter will be able to make a child in white A4 format, without signing, without anything, will draw some object and will say – here, this looks like a house, has windows, has a door, has a roof and that is enough, for the amendment promoter that is enough. The amendment promoter this way sent a slap to the professional public, Serbia's Engineering Chamber, all those people who worked hard and responsibly to get a degree in graduate construction engineers, so they had to invest in their profession to get a license, so they kept that license. Now, for the amendment promoter, nothing is necessary. For the amendment promoter, this is such an unserious process that it only takes on one A4 format, white A4 paper, that someone like that paints or draws what that object looks like or that house or that building or any object that is the subject of legalization. I believe that this is indeed very unseriously proposed and it is necessary in the law, that the bill should remain the necessary name, last name, designation, need to name, last name and number of the company license or company name, or another legal person who has produced the report on the founding state of the facility and name, last name and number of the responsible designer's license, or the responsible contractor's name. It is necessary because of the profession, it is necessary because of the seriousness, it is necessary because of a job that awaits us for the next year in the law of illegal objects.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40080	I thank you, Mr. Granny. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. What makes you think you do, Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Because he said - Amendment Proposer. ) About the amendment promoter, but once again I mention to you, as I said in the previous debate, that you are not the only promoter of the amendment. There's Mr. Sutanovac. I can't be a judge whether Mr. Babic meant you or Mr. Shutanovac. So you didn't mention the name and last name which would be your basis for replication. Thank you. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and the magistrate, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted the 30th amendment together. (Balša Bozovic, from town: Article 34.) I'm sorry, Article 34. I apologize again. National MPs Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic and the magistrate, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted together to the 34th amendment. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40081	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 34, paragraph 9, is deleted for the simple reason that a very strange possibility has been left by law when we are already talking about the possibility of corruption. So, just one physical part of 10,000 illegal squares if the mutilates, as you say, are prevented from destroying all 10,000 squares. So, if we legalize one garage in a building that has 10,000 squares on the Kopalnik, we will be prevented and impossible to comply with any other law that regulates this area, even planning and construction, and then we will come up with a few laws because of this article. Is it possible that some auxiliary facility, some shed that's been converted somewhere into some living space, won't be legalized for the simple reason that it's on a plot where there are more owners, and here it'll be possible to legalize just because of a garage space of 10,000 square meters. It's something that represents absurd. If this amendment is not adopted, I think it's going to completely dissipate everything that you've talked about today and this is, of course, partly just, it's primarily just for whoever owns 10,000 squares, and it's unfair for everyone else who can't do it according to this same law. We think it's a great shame that you're bypassing the Constitutional Court this way, and what is the Constitutional Court for you, gentlemen, a small Constitutional Court versus your great financial interests? Thank you, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40082	I thank Mr. Bozovic. The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40083	This is another attack on the state out of pure political hatred, I don't know what to call it, to use an adequate term. The judicial authorities are one of the pillars of every society, including our society. This demeaning of the Constitutional Court of Serbia is indeed unacceptable for such tones and such words to be heard from the National Assembly of the RS. And then when we didn't like those judgments intimately or personally, or liked any of the officials and members of the SNS, we didn't comment on any decision or constitutional court, but neither did any other court. Those who in this way demean the court, demean the state, demean all our citizens. Speaking of 10,000 squares buildings that were illegally built, so you know I saw those buildings today, I saw them in two photos today. One photo was taken from the Palilu municipality and these 10,000 squares were taken and taken under such good patronage and in a good deal with the management of the municipality of DS and other photography, and there I saw the photograph in one daily newspaper, showed me the respected Mr. Rističević and refers to the building in Indjia, where, by chance, the apartment has a vice president of DS and this small, one apartment about one football playground. What do we do with that? I've heard all sorts of things here, because of one garage seat, and those garage spaces are not mentioned in the attitude of Article 34. We listened here and claimed that underground garages would now be made apartments. Apartments in the attic and attic, I've seen it, but in underground garages, underground apartments, I haven't really seen it anywhere. That kind of andergrund I think only exists in the heads of some MPs here in the O.R. Regardless of the amount of criticism, due to strength, commitment and will and knowledge, ultimately, shown by this Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the face of illegal construction, with the fact that we want to put an end to decades of practice in Serbia and say - it's enough, from now on it can't be that way, taking seriously the fact that people in Serbia are having a hard time living and that it can't be seen through people in Serbia to fill the budget, whether 70, 170 or not I don't know how many percent, of course it can't be 170% of all of it, whether 70%, 80% or all 100% go to local self-government or any other. Why have legalization attempts so far failed? They didn't succeed because you looked at legalization as a prey, as a way to patch up all those holes in the budget you had. Someone here today said -- the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't care about the public enterprise in Užica. I respect that. I have a lot of friends in Uzica. It's a beautiful neighborhood, a place that reminds me of my Vranjska Banja. It's not beneath Goc, but it's beneath Zlatibor, even bigger and nicer mountains. But what does a public enterprise have to do with the government of the Republic of Serbia? On the other hand, we have to change the way we think. Public enterprises are not formed either in Uzic, in Vrnjačka Banja, or elsewhere in Serbia to employ party personnel or to be a director, while the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia replace him with debts. Public enterprises, and this "Srbigas" at the moment have fully reconciled obligations towards the Russian gas supplier, unlike the time when you led Serbia and you led the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I was a national MP and when we could only see new responsibilities that measured in hundreds of millions of euros, at least for the same "Srbigas". And you better not mention "Serbiagas" and you better not mention public enterprises, and you better not mention the ER Serbia and not mention "Nikola Tesla" airport and not mention other public enterprises, which at the time only served to calm down party activists, and now serve and work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to make profits and to return that profits to whoever founded them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40084	You must return to the amendment, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40085	I think, Mr. Chairman, that the reasons for the amendment itself have been missed and that is why the Serbian Progressive Party will not vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40086	Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40087	I thank the chairman. In accordance with Article 103. - The MP is obliged to state which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured and has two minutes to explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40088	Up to two minutes, Mr. Bozovic, read well, up to two minutes, not two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40089	Article 106, 107 and 108 - about the session, about dignity, about the agenda point, Mr. Zoran Babic talked about everything, just not that. At one point, he said, which you didn't warn him about, that the attack on the state was my exposure, where I said the construction mafia is stronger than the Constitutional Court in Serbia, the construction mafia that proposed an unconstitutional law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40090	I cannot allow you to use the reply to the Rules of Procedure and quote what Mr. Babic said. Then explain it the way it was. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Well, I explain. ) Mr Babić mentioned the mention of the Constitutional Court in a way that is not similar to that high institution. I thank you, and I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: I ask to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word is a folk letter from Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40091	Thank you, Your Honor. I don't mind when my previous colleague mentions, when his mouth is full of the construction mafia, because I suppose he has to greet his colleagues and friends, but what bothers me very much is that once again, he throws sand at Serbian citizens in the eyes. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: This is in line with the Rules of Procedure and the amendment? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40092	Mr Bozovicu, it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure that you throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40093	Yeah, it's in line with the amendment, and now I'm going to explain why.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40094	Please, Mrs. Rakic. Mr Bozovicu, it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure that you throw away. (Balsa Bozovic, from the scene: But is it what he says we are criminals? ) Mr Bozovicu, are you shouting in the Great Hall of the National Assembly? Do you want me to give you a third warning? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What third, when did I get two? First, second, and third, if you continue to act like one. I'm telling you I'm gonna have to, because you started yelling at us here. I can let you yell at me, we'll go outside the gym, as much as you like, but you can't go to the Great Hall of the National Assembly. If it offends you from Mrs. Rakic's speech, you must do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, not to yell at the MPs here in the Great Hall. I can't tell if anyone's saying anything in the Rules of Procedure or in line with the debate or the subject in the first word. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Except when it comes to me. I have to at least let him say a few sentences, so he can assess it. (Jovan Markovic throws out of place. Don't throw it to Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mrs. Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40095	Can I just ask you to give me my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40096	I'll give you your time back, go ahead, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40097	I'm sorry that some synonyms for illegal construction, i.e. for legalisation in Serbia are the construction mafia, corruption, I'm very sorry that such things are repeated here in the hall all the time. What I have come forward for is an amendment, that is, the position of Article 9, paragraph 34. What you've explained, I'm really sorry if you've really understood this in that way, but it says why things haven't moved, why you haven't solved the problems of illegal construction in so many years. As regards the position of Article 9, I will now read it for citizens: “When the subject of the law is a residential or residential building, consisting of a number of specific physical parts for which an investor cannot be identified, but there are applications for the law of specific parts in accordance with this law, the competent authority shall adopt a resolution on the law of a housing building which must contain a specification of all the specific parts of the building.” What does this mean? It means that those citizens who bought apartments from investors, as you called them, the construction mafia, and I called them your friends, since it's a period of time... (Jovan Markovic, from the place: She did it again? Yeah, I'm working again and I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40098	Mr. Markovic, I can't warn anyone because he's calling some friends. Do you really think that's enough to warn? I don't think so, because then I would warn you every two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40099	I don't see what part of the citizens are damaged here, because this very attitude, attitude 9, allows those citizens who have already been cheated and bought an illegal apartment, not because they wanted it to be a hira, but because at the time it might have been cheap, because they didn't have the money for the other, and now by erasing this attitude you want not to let those citizens get so hard to buy the apartment legalized. They won't legalize the building, it says attitude 11, but I wouldn't read the whole law right now, I wouldn't throw sand in the eyes of the citizens. I repeat, I don't mind your synonyms for illegal construction, all I care about is replacing the thesis and don't throw any more sand in the eyes of the Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40100	Thank you, Mrs. Rakic. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 35. The draft law provides that the competent authority shall keep official records of the legal decisions issued and the list of solutions issued shall be published in electronic form and made available to the public and on the Internet. We have concluded that this member is incomplete, that it would be very difficult to apply or be unevenly applied, so we have suggested that this member be supplemented by paragraphs 2 and 3. In this way, the amendment removes the deficit in this norm, by proposing that the contents of the register be prescribed by the minister, in order to ensure uniform records. We also propose an amendment to prescribe a deadline within which the competent authority is obliged to provide the public with a list of solutions issued via the Internet. Since this amendment has been accepted to our satisfaction, and this is one of the seven amendments that we have accepted in total, I would like to point out once again that we have tried to really submit constructive amendments and that I urge you to look again at the others, because we think there are more places and more amendments that could fix the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40102	Thank you, Mrs. Hasanovic Korac. Members of the 36th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs together, Natasa Vukkovic, Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac, submitted to the 38th amendment. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40103	I'm sorry, this is the last of our amendments, but he's not accepted either. I would just like to say that by not accepting these amendments, an opportunity has been missed to improve the good part of this law, improve and prevent the emergence of those negative consequences that we foresee in this law. I'm just gonna do it again for a second time. These are: this law leads to an unequal position for Serbian citizens, and this law will not be easily applicable, given the large obligations it makes to local self-governments, without even increasing funds in the context of a ban on public sector employment. We don't believe it will be possible for this job to end in such short time. And most importantly, this law contains dangerous corrupt elements and we think it has room for new corruption. This law creates a new class of rich people and it will be visible in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40104	Thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. Only if you allow me an apology to you, because by looking at the rock-notes I have just read that what I have interpreted as the mention of Mrs Stojljković, it was mentioned in some ways, but as a colleague and it was missed that I thought you said below - colleague Stojljković. So, like I said, I'm taking two minutes from the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted the amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: What about me? You skipped me. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. (Jovan Markovic, from town: You skipped me. I didn't skip you, you didn't answer. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40105	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have acted with the amendment on item 3 which states that the law enforcement act of Article 2 provides the competent authority without delay to the construction inspection. We specified it to be three days and the ministry accepted it. I think it's a good thing you accepted this amendment, because it clearly limits the act and the time for which it can be brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40106	Thank you. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Mr Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40107	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, just to say that I believe that it may be necessary in this member who provides that it is possible to join the infrastructure of an object that is in the process of law, it may also be necessary to seek the confirmation of a competent authority that the object in question can be legalised, in order not to be used in practice, so that the infrastructure is attached to an object that is in a safety belt or an object that is on a rink, which is practically impossible to law. Then, you know how control is already, such objects over a long period of time can't be excluded from these infrastructure networks. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40108	Thank you. The 45th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidic, Miroslav Marinkovic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 46th amendment. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40109	Thank you. Therefore, Article 46 is located in transitional and final provisions. The amendment acted on paragraph 3 which states: “The deadline for making up the list of articles 6 of this law of illegally built objects is 12 months from the date of entry into force of this law. ” We have proposed that the words "12 months" be replaced by "six months" and we have given the reason that the six-month deadline proposed by the amendment is necessary and sufficient for the list in question to be drawn up. We think it's a long year for everything that's already in most cases and recorded and exists as signed matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40110	Thank you. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40111	Respected citizens of Serbia, this member of the law in paragraph 3 is said to be the deadline for making up the list of members of the 6th law of illegally built buildings etc. 12 months from the day of entry into force of this law. We have tried, dear colleagues, that even in the principle debate today, in this debate, we have shown by amendments how impossible it is in various cases to apply this law. We specifically pointed out that the capacity of the number of people in the building inspection is insufficient and that it will be impossible for 300 people in charge of inspections to solve a million and a half cases, and you will see in this article that has eight or nine views, each time it is said – building inspector, construction inspector, and construction inspector. I don't understand why, there are a few of us here MPs of the opposition, you won't, and you're the chairman all the time contesting our right to state our arguments. Several times already you have this debate that should affect the improvement of this law, and you are not giving us the word to say what is completely justified for this debate and just now, and I don't know how many times you're interrupting our presentations you're doing it, unjustly. So, in this case, I want to underline it one more time. It can't be expected that in local administrations... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40112	Time. Thank you. Mr. Markovic, you spend your time with yourself, and then when it's two minutes, you're surprised you don't have any more time. Here, no one interrupted you, you spoke for yourself, and when it was two minutes ago, you say now – which is the microphone off. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Can I finish? How can I allow him a sentence when he fights with himself for a minute, no one warns him, and in the end, he is surprised that his time is up. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: It would be order to let him finish the sentence. Please, Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr Bozovicu, Mr Markovic, first reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40113	I think, Mr. Chairman, that I have a very difficult role to play, the citizens of Serbia will surely understand what I'm saying, but it's very difficult for you to understand what I'm about to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40114	I can't understand because I don't know which member it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40115	Article 107, which you just hurt, and I want to make an introduction because it's very difficult for me to explain to you why you insulted my dignity when you said I was talking to myself for a minute on this subject. Since you're not ashamed that something like that after all these hours of my participation in the debate, you're saying that I'm with myself discussing this subject here in the last few minutes, what it looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40116	Mr. Markovic, I didn't say that you were arguing with yourself about this subject, you said for over a minute that someone was interrupting you, you were speaking outside the agenda, you weren't talking about the subject, and I didn't interrupt you, and when the time was up, after two minutes, you were surprised because you didn't have any more time when you spent the whole minute talking about something that had nothing to do with it. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Are you saying that I was talking to myself? ) This is the reason why Mr. Bozovic threw it to me and I couldn't explain to him in any other way the fact that you were out of time because you were running a monologue with yourself. I apologize if I have said: you have argued, you have been alone, and no one has interrupted you. You've had all the time that belongs to you. You left the topic at some point and talked about how someone was interrupting you, how he wouldn't let you talk, how we keep you from talking about the subject, was that what it was like for Mr. Markovic? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: Please, is that a reason to say that I spoke to myself after all the warnings I received? I don't know what to tell you, it's not worth it. I accept that I'm giving up, I'm going to ask one of the professors to try to explain to you how you respect the Rules of Procedure, I really don't have a chance anymore, because all I've tried to do today is direct you to the respect of the Rules of Procedure, you just don't understand. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I don't understand now? You don't understand the way I'm trying to explain it. So either I'm misexplaining or you just can't understand how and how the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly works. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: I can't understand? Obviously so. I thank you, but it's not worth it, Mr. Markovic, here's half a day we're holding the MPs hostage as to how I'm trying to educate you in a way that you respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40117	Thank you. A member of 108 was injured for the simple reason that you have incorrectly conducted the sessions, and on the very order of the session you must take care of yourself, no one else. You can't insult the MPs without expecting a session to be held. Order can't be the moment when you're talking about someone talking to themselves in front of a full room and in front of citizens watching a live feed. So I ask you to take care of your behavior, because throughout the day, there is no order at the session for the simple reason why you allow one to do anything, and we who criticise something don't allow anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40118	Mr. Bozovicu, while you're talking, I'd like you to tell the truth to the end. The moment you threw...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40119	I didn't throw.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40120	You were throwing it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40121	I wasn't throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40122	We'll prove that easily, as in previous cases, you'll get notes and you'll see...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40123	You've been telling the truth all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40124	Here you go, Mr. Bozovic. So I'm going to prove to you by looking at the notes that you've been throwing away, and I'm based on why I didn't let Mr. Markovic finish his sentence and he said over a minute that he was talking about how someone was interrupting him, how he couldn't speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40125	Well, you don't let the MPs talk, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40126	That's what I'm talking about. Did someone interrupt him at that time, Mr. Bozovic? Did someone interrupt him at that time? No, for a minute he talked about it, no one interrupted him, at the end of the day when he spent his time, the problem is he wasted his time and he can't talk about what he wanted to say. It's not worth it, Mr. Bozovic, your attempt to obstruct the Assembly's session and topic in this way, I think I as chairman must try to respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40127	Dear Chairman, I really admire your tenacity to prove to the MPs that they wasted their time in vain, but their time is not as important to the citizens of Serbia as they care about those 15 years they spent in vain trying to legalise their facilities. I will return to another badman who was filed by my fellow MPs Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac, who is required to change the deadline of 12 months by 24 months. This is a very similar amendment to the one where they also asked for the delay and extension of the deadlines, and what this law, which this bill wants, is to draw the line and that there are no new deadlines, that there are no new laws, that we finish the job once and for all. In the proposal for a law that was primarily under public debate, the deadline was six months. Whether you believe that work will be done and in 12 months, it doesn't matter to the citizens how important it is for them to see for themselves, and they have made sure that this government at the head of the SNS is doing it, especially when they were able to make sure that the building permits are granted within 28 days. So I think that even this 12-month deadline, for me personally maybe too long, I find it quite unnecessary to extend it to double, so I think this amendment is just another one in sequence, but thank God and last in a series of bad amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40128	Thank you. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 46th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Babic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Srdjan Dragojevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 46a be added after article 46a. The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40129	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister, I use the time of the parliamentary group because I consider this proposal to be very important and I would like to tell you a few words more about it. Of course, I'll be brief since we've been in this debate for a long time. First of all, I'm going to say that I think this law is really good, really revolutionary. All MPs paid attention to the legal, economic aspects of this law, and I will draw attention to one not less important aspect, and that is the psychological aspect of this law. We are faced over a number of years that Serbian citizens, a good part of Serbian citizens, may well be half living in illegal facilities. And that's one situation that creates people's anxiety. Presumption that they don't know if they'll be able to leave their descendants, their children to those objects. This Law deprives people of their anxiety and I think it's truly beneficial in that sense. Based on that aspect, the psychological aspect, my proposal, which I have made, I also find very important. In numerous studies, conducted in the area of psychology of urbanism, many testimonies, exact testimony that people living in orderly environments, less prone to aggression, less prone to domestic violence, are less prone to alcoholism. My suggestion, to remind you, goes in the direction that people who legalize their facilities have an obligation to take care of the outer facades of their houses, their facilities, to defuse and to turn their facades. Also, there is one very important and aesthetic element, which we must not forget, every passenger passing through Serbia from the west has the impression that he has entered the Orient, and we are going to Europe. Every passenger can't help but notice hundreds of thousands of unmaltered houses, not painted facades. We have a very beautiful country, but we have turned it, unfortunately, into a mockery in the last 25 years. Our inhabited places are a mockery. This law provides a fantastic opportunity for people, when they already have very favourable conditions, to be able to resolve their life issues, to legalise their houses, to be given obligations to their houses, to obliterate their facades and to turn around. You, Madam Minister, have written that the amendment is denied because it is imprecise because it does not impose criminal provisions. I did not purposely want to highlight the criminal provisions by proposing that these provisions be not sanctions, that they be not criminal, but that, above all, they refer to certain tax reliefs, that these provisions are motivated by positive tax policies by people to arrange their houses. So, I ask you once again to consider this proposal of mine. I think this is the last time that over a million unturned houses and facades in Serbia are being taken care of. One word, to courte this country of ours which is beautiful and should be even more beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40130	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40131	Your Honor, I'm very glad you say this is the law, as you said, good and revolutionary law. I'll tell you that with the new housing law, there will be an exact obligation to maintain the building, hence the facade of the building, therefore the obligation. And I say once again, I'm glad you're going to vote for this bill, I guess as soon as you say it's good and revolutionary, and if I had a chance two days ago on Twitter to read your opinion on the law, which is a little bit in college with this today, but I'm glad you think of it this way today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40132	Thank you. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted an amendment with an amendment, suggesting that a new member of 46a be added after article 46a. Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic. You have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40133	I use seven minutes, five plus two. In the principle debate, I will repeat once again, I said that it is very important to pass this law, that the problem is great, that it is measured by millions, millions and a half squares of illegals in Serbia, that it is high time to pass a law that will solve this problem through one kind of intubulation, that such a solution cannot possibly be fair to all, it is clear. Every lex specialis, this is one kind of lex specialis is that it has both users and losers, but it is estimated that if this law is corrected by the amendments that I and my opposition colleagues have submitted, it can be a good basis for a permanent solution to this problem. There was a lot of debate over who was guilty, when illegal construction began yesterday, the day before yesterday, the day before, during this government, the previous authorities, those authorities before that. I think it started a long time ago, and I've already said that in the 1960s, and senior colleagues will remember that they had to legalize the objects they inherited, get something like that, too. The only thing that's safe, and this is half in a joke, and I'm really going to say, all illegal objects were built at the time of the SPS or the party that was the predecessor of the SPS, means the Union of Communists. It's, it's not a switch, it's about one right conclusion. All those in this House today were once in power and all had their share of the blame for what was happening and there is no doubt there. Who could do more, who could do less, could go from situation to situation, and that could be determined on an annual basis. There was a transfer that was passed by the law in 2003 that defined lawless construction as a criminal offence and it was a transfer of why it was not implemented. Here, if the Minister listens to me, that law was passed in 2003. Its application began in 2004 when the minister of infrastructure that was supposed to implement the law, a man who still serves as minister in the current government today, and the current Deputy Prime Minister and Minister was then an adviser in the government. Therefore, this should be seen why this law has not been implemented since 2004 on this earth under various governments. Of course I think its implementation would give better results. Of course, even in the 1990s, there were all sorts of things, not to mention Daedinj, but also to Zemun and those parts that were then ruled by the party, which then belonged to the largest number of MPs sitting in this House today. But, in general, should I? It's got to be solved. What was the main attempts of colleagues Pavicevic and mine were to help define a good law, it was an intervention on the 5th of that famous cottage, that famous arbitration which was founded there. We failed and it was rejected and this law lost the chance to get our votes when there was a vote for him. Another important member of these 12 amendments is the amendment which is now being discussed, which is a new Article 46a, which says that owners of objects built in accordance with the building permit issued by the competent authority and which have been granted a licence for those facilities will be exempt from paying 50% of the property tax in the next 15 years from the date of entry into force of this law. What's the point? The goal is that people who own them, some who were investors, some who built those apartments that were built legally, get a satisfaction for what they were in those difficult times when it was hard to get a building permit, when we were 185 on the world list for the length of waiting for a building permit, now the situation is much better, now we're 139. It's a really much better condition, but who in these difficult times managed to get past all these traps and these mazes and to get to the building permit and after building the used permit and it would be fair for them to get some satisfaction because they respected the law. To remind you, if we say that one-third of the objects in Serbia are illegal, it also means that two-thirds are legal and it would be bad for two-thirds of Serbian citizens to be losers of this law that could have been good if it had been corrected with the amendments I'm talking about. That didn't happen. It is explained that the amendment for refusal is not accepted since there is no economic analysis of the effects resulting from the adoption of this amendment, and the applicants for the amendment have not provided an economic analysis of the impact on the local and republican budget if the proposed measure is applied. This is the first time, probably in history, that the opposition MPs are asked for an elaborate to prove their amendment's justification. The financial effects are very simple, 50% decreases the tax on property to people who own it, who may have built objects that are lying. What happens next? It says, "The influence on the local and republican budget." The one who wrote has no idea. The property tax has nothing to do with the republican budget, it's 100% income from local self-government. So the answer to the amendment was written by someone who had nothing to do with matter. Who it was, I don't know, it'll probably remain a secret. So this is an inconclusive relationship with people who have roughly respected the laws and contributed to the rule of law in this country. I'm sorry that it's only being rejected because it's the opposition's proposal and I'm sorry that she didn't take advantage of the chance to do something that would ground the rule of law. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe the minister will now accept the amendment, but since she says no, then I'm sorry she missed that chance in the day or night to vote, whenever it is, we won't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40134	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Nenad Canak submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40135	So, it is a pity that the government did not accept this amendment by MP Veselinovic. We will vote for him because he proposes that the National Assembly, through the board of directors, consider the annual report on the effects of the application of this law. Given that we have said, you have suggested that this law has a importance of public interest for Serbia, it would be perfectly normal for you to accept this amendment and that the Assembly is indeed following the effects of the application of this law in a special way. We will, of course, follow the application of this law, because we expect that the application of this law will have very bad consequences in practice. And what we have already highlighted during the principle debate, as we have pointed out about all the amendments that we have talked about today, none of which you have accepted, we have submitted in the best intention of this amendment, since we wanted to contribute to the improvement of this law and we wanted to contribute to the reduction of the negative effects of this law which are unfair, to lead to an unequal position of the citizens of Serbia, to create a new class of rich people and extra-profits who will leave a huge amount of money in your pocket instead of being in the state register, which will make it impossible to actually build infrastructure and infrastructure capacity infrastructure in our cities and municipalities, because a very large number of funds will be out of the state budget, or local. We believe that this law is not applicable and that it will prove in practice. That's why we're sorry it won't be a special procedure to control the application of this law. Local self-government doesn't have the capacity to apply this law. It's a small number of building inspectors. You have found by this law that no additional means are needed for the application of this law, which is not true. It will show that additional funds are needed. Minister Udovicki said the other day that the separations for local self-government have been reduced. There is a ban on public sector employment. The number of construction inspectors who now exist in our cities and municipalities is unable to complete this business. I repeat, there are about 40 municipalities and towns in Serbia that do not have a construction inspector. It's not clear who's gonna do this job. Given the injustice and the fact that this law leads to inequality, a large number of citizens of Serbia, we agree that 80% of the illegally raised buildings are those who have built citizens for their dwellings and are mostly poorer citizens and they need to meet. They've had rather favourable legalization conditions so far. There's about 80% of them, or, let's say, about a million and 200 grand. For us, the problem is what about the 20%? Those 300,000 illegally raised objects for us are a problem in this law, because they are mostly people who have built illegal facilities for the market, which means they wanted to make a profit. Today we talked about how many buildings that exceeded the floor, as planned...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40136	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40137	... get the legislation. This introduces a new area for corruption, and at the stage of the application of this law, we will have the opportunity to follow it both in the Assembly and in local self-government. The Democratic Party will pay great attention to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40138	I thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. You've had three minutes, so you don't have any more time for an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40139	Control of the application of this law and the report by the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure very regularly delivers to the Committee of Parliament, precisely because we want to show everything we have done and what we are doing. I am very glad that the DS will pay attention to how the law on law enforcement is implemented, because it will certainly be implemented, because this will show what the previous authorities failed to do, we will introduce order, as we have introduced the Law on Planning and Construction. This law has indeed been made for citizens of Serbia, for ordinary people who have had a problem for the past 15 years and more, above all, with the state and with an incorrect attitude towards the citizens themselves. This law has been made for all people who simply today have illegally built buildings, and they need to acquire property over them, should be enrolled in the cadastre and we as a state should also introduce order into the construction sector. In the next three months, the ministry will submit a report to the committee of parliament. We are always here to report to the parliament and MPs themselves if such a decision is made and I am sure that in this sense the opposition parties will see how things can be realized in Serbia. If we have already managed to increase the social gross product in just a few months because of the growth of the construction industry and now construction has a stake in GDP of 4.5%, and it was below 4% when this government was made, I'm sure we will now develop further with these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40140	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Before we move to the second item of the agenda, I'm taking a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Period and Cartaster. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40142	Thank you, Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to this bill which in one better way regulates this area. It is necessary to better regulate the calls of civil servants employed in the Republic Geodetic Service. This, on the one hand, will contribute to this legislative solution in order to achieve better working conditions, of course, and greater motivation for employees to work. What we have suggested is a classification of who is with high school, who is with academic studies, 180 ESPB points, with 240 ESPB points, all in order for these services to work much better than they've done so far. Hand to heart and now they've been working in a way that prescribed that law. We can be completely satisfied in several cases when the cadastre refused to illegally register the country, both in Zlatibor and in Belgrade, as a first-degree body, when it comes to PKK land. However, in both cases, the second-degree body gave Katastro a directive to still pass the country's State Agricultural Registration Act on a private company in Zlatibor and the PKK, when it comes to the city of Belgrade, giving tens of thousands of hectares to some private persons, which is, of course, past the interests of Serbian citizens, apart from public interest, past the interests of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, we are pleased with how the catastre reacted both in the first and second cases. We're not happy that next to the area we're setting up, and as far as Katastra's concerned, we don't have an orderly system and we don't have a ministry that respects, in this case, the law. That is, of course, the ministry led by Zorana Mihajlovic and has not worked by law, at least until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40143	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Markovic, even though I said I wouldn't or will try not to give you an explanation, I must, in this case, since you are together applicants of the amendment. Only one member of the parliamentary group has the right to explain the amendment. Since you no longer have time for the parliamentary group, since Mr Bozovic used it, then you do not have time, so you must agree with your colleagues who will report on what amendment. Thank you. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I ask the Minister to plead on this amendment. Please, Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40144	I plead that we accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40145	I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment and that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komić, Jovan Marković, Dragan Sutanovac, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Božović, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40146	This is one thing that's illogical in the law itself, and we're trying to sort it out somehow with this amendment. First of all, in Article 3, in the amended Article 11(3), the word ‘institutory’ is replaced by ‘ministration’. It is not good for the same authority to make decisions and to decide these solutions by appeal. We think the ministry should decide by appeal, as a second-degree body, and not by one authority to be in both the first and second-degrees who will give solutions, and then complain to the same body that has already given you the solution. We don't think that's fair. It may be partly just, as Minister Zorana Mihajlovic says, but in this case we believe it is more just that there is a second-degree body, and that it is the ministry, regardless of its leadership in this case, Zorana Mihajlovic. In another government, the ministry will be just, and will then resolve complaints in these and similar situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40147	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komić, Jovan Marković, Dragan Sutanovac, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Božović, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40148	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, respected minister, the DS has given a lot of amendments to the Law on Cataster and State Prime Minister. We tried again to point to some illogicality, although this is a far better law than it was the bill of law, which we talked about so much. I think it is very important that these few amendments we have submitted be considered in the right way, and one of the most important reasons why we have brought this amendment is that it is precisely a short time for the party to be in the process, in this case the citizen, to be organised and to deliver the documentation, as you suggested in your proposal, within eight days. In view of the fact that it is also under the Law on Administrative Procedure and under other laws, and also in the Law on Planning and Construction of the deadlines for complaints and the submission of documentation for 15 days, we felt that this was a reasonable time. In the case of disputes between citizens and republican institutions, between citizens and administrations, etc., there is always a problem with proving something. To prove something, you must also have documentation. In order for you to have documentation, you have to contact the competent institutions and services, and I don't think the citizens in this case will be able to collect documents that would matter to them in the disputes that are at stake in this case for a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40149	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Susan Spasojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Matic. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milisav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40150	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, is the amendment where we have proposed that, if the area mentioned in the contract on the purchase of an apartment purchased from an investor who, in the meantime, has ceased to exist, it is impossible to work an annex of the contract, it differs from the area indicated in the subsequent construction and use of the permit obtained in the legalisation process, as eligible for enrolment in the cadastra to take the area from the subsequent building and use permits, only when the items are subsequently used and the building permits obtained in the legalisation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40151	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40152	Dear Members, thank you for your comment, I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40153	I thank the Government for accepting this amendment. The MPs will declare themselves in the day of the vote on this amendment and, I suppose, accept it after the Prime Minister has accepted it. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 33rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40154	We believe this, gentlemen, is an amendment that should be adopted. We've predicted here an opportunity to send notices in writing, which wasn't possible under your bill. The explanation is that not so few citizens are unable to collect information through the internet portal, and that is, and was the basic need for this amendment. We think it is very important, especially in some parts of Serbia where computer, colloquial, literacy at a very low level, is given little transparency in this way. Some people might object to such solutions, some citizens in particular. We also believe that there are many of our older citizens who are not very good at handling Internet portals, and we believe that for this reason it is very important to introduce this way of notifying and writing. It's a technical amendment, but we think in one right way it gives a picture of the law that Mr. Markovic said, which is better than what we've had so far. So I don't see why you wouldn't adopt one of these amendments. I think it's very important that all groups in society who use different kinds of information are satisfied. Here, this is one of them, that citizens have the opportunity and a written way to be informed, not just on the Internet or the Internet portal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40155	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was even willing to accept this amendment. Here, and I listened to him. But then I imagined. When their MPs will not listen to such an amendment, that means that the amendment is not good enough. We listen to what he says, however, their MPs are not present here, and often even at the vote, do not come to vote for their own amendments. So I think it's in vain and we're listening to future amendments like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40157	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40158	Just so there is no confusion – so far there has been no notification, and from now on it has been put on the website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40159	I thank Mrs. Mihajlovic. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40160	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in Article 42, in amended Article 116(3), we propose to add, after saying, "the official duties" to the words "in 12 months". It means deadlines are set. Dear Minister, this is about saying in this position 3. "If the border between the two Catastrian municipalities is established in the middle of a common plot, road, river or so, it is officially carried out on the part of these parcels on two plots in length and on the principle of equality of surfaces. “ Considering that very often in the cataster of people who are busy with big and important jobs, they delay the signing of these surfaces and the separation by catastras, then at some point you have problems when you give some information about municipalities, local communities, these border plots, and we felt that in this case we should give that legal obligation that the cadastre should be officially responsible for this solution and that procedure ends within 12 months. On the other hand, given that you did not honor the union in this Article 2 and that people who are employed in the cataster have really big problems regarding their incomes, then the question of motivation is also raised. If we know that the middle expert prepares in geodetic administrations has a salary of about 26.5 thousand dinars somewhere, if the senior expert cooker has a salary of about 32.5 thousand dinars, if the high expert cooker has a salary of about 54 000, and people do such responsible jobs, then the question of their motivation is that at some point without this order and giving deadlines, they do this job in quality and proper manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40161	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40162	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I see that the previous speaker well informed himself about the work of earnings at the Republic Geodetic Institute in the work of employees and mentions the lack of agreement with the union, which I think is absolutely not true. Did he ask himself if he knew how many earnings they had employed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with medium, higher, high-priced, or in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? This is an indication that, for the sake of petty political points, certain people in this National Assembly are exclusively discussing the consequences. People can be motivated in some other way. We are now in the fiscal consolidation process, the austerity measure, to establish the foundations for economic growth and thus serve as this law that we have previously discussed, and this law that we are discussing today. I would like to return the debate to one very serious level and not only to discuss in the context of making small political points, because we, as Parliament and as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, hope that, whose Deputy Prime Minister is a representative here, to make it better for all citizens, to make it better for everyone in the state administration, but the precondition for this is the development of the private sector, the prerequisite for this is to meet all aspects of what defines fiscal consolidation and the difficult reforms that the government started in April last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40163	Thank you. (Alexander Markovic, from the post: Replica, although not mentioned. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but I had to answer to Mr. Marinkovic, because I think he misread the concept I was talking about. His performance related to a story about a general situation in the country, where he is aware of all the problems, small wages and profits, etc. It's his business. That's what he should talk about first, as a man who is a representative of the ruling coalition, and that we all talk about it openly and look for ways to increase that salary. Mr Marinkovic, I was just about to point out that if today's officers in the catastro are receiving salaries between 25 and 30,000 dinars, their motivations are raised, and if you ignore their responsibility and role and their impact on the development of society in such a way that they are misbehaved, saying they are not important in the reform process, etc. And let them stay on small wages, that's your attitude, which is completely wrong and which is totally bad. I think these people are very important, their jobs are very important and a good basis for their jobs must continue to be an impact on reforms, on the development of society etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40165	Mr. Markovic, by estimating the fact that we finally understood each other and in this case you have received a replica, although you yourself have found that you have not mentioned it, I withdraw the warning I gave you in the previous part of the debate. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40166	This is, of course, one, free to say, the unknowing attempt of spin that I have hinted by any word of my own and demeaned the workers of the Republic Geodetic Institute. On the contrary, I have spoken and spoken and now that the Republic Geodetic Institute is of strategic national interest to the Republic of Serbia, as well as to any serious state, but I am talking about that, when it comes to increasing earnings, when it comes to the motivation in which the previous speaker mentioned it, real conditions must be created. We no longer live in a time when we can increase our pensions by 10% linearly and it costs us three, four years over a billion and a half euros or we can't pay our salaries to the miners in Resavica, as it was at the end of 2012, or fulfill our obligations to foreign investors, as was the case with the Kragujevac car factory. We are a serious state, a serious parliament. Of course, our strategic goal is to strengthen the public sector and strengthen it, and we will try in the coming months in other ways to motivate, how employees of the Republic Geodetic Service, so employed by state agencies, in the ministries of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but through strengthening the private sector, and not through the dispersion of cheap demagogy that anything is possible, is just a matter of whose money and unearned money. It's easy, and we can go into debt, of course, we'll never be in debt with seven and a half or eight and a half percent on the international market, we can be in debt, fortunately, and I have to praise that, with 2%, with 3%. We'll do the roll over, so we'll refinance the debts and we'll take care of the public and state administration employees, but in one real way, through the reform of the state administration, by defining clear parameters and principles for their efficient and effective work. Of course, we will make sure that from real sources tomorrow we increase their profits and increase the quality of their lives, which is also the strategic goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also of us in most of us here in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40167	The word is made by MP Veroljub Matic, after the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40168	Thank you. I will comment on this Article 42 or 116 of the basic law. It's just, it's an established job that services for the catastrophe of immovableity do it without some difficulty, so I don't see that some serious problem. What I'm trying to say is that these are workers, people who finish their work at the Republic Geodetic Institute through the Real Estate Catastrophe Service, in municipalities and cities. I think that the first step was taken, according to a certain level and recognition of work at the Republic Geodetic Institute, i.e. according to the complexity of work, weight, necessary knowledge, skills, expertise and all that follows a kind of work, so so far the workers in the Republic Geodetic Institute had no special identification. Now, this amendment to Article 2, practically accepted cadastrian officials, where there are ten ranges, relative to education, so it is one first step, a step towards a good solution, and a reward at the Republic Geodetic Institute. What is a Republic Geodetic Institute must be taken is the basis and legal basis which solves and which speaks of what is a catastrophe of immovableity. It's a basic and public register of immovableities and real rights on them. He is of general interest to the Republic of Serbia. I think that it is understood in the current government and all those who carry the Republic Geodetic Service in terms of work, so I expect, primarily, that workers, or cadastrian officials, will be responsible and do their job in quality, and that the current Minister will hopefully, if the Republic Geodetic Service is to carry out quality work, given the scope of the reduced deadlines, if they show their quality and what they need to do, they will surely support the workers of the Republic Geodetic Institute, who should deserve it in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40169	Thank you, Mr. Matice. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Matic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Matic submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Suzanne Spasojevic and Vanja Vukic together submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Matic submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Marković, Dragan Šutanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together submitted to the 49th amendment. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I had a chance a few days ago to have a citizen send me a notice and in some way inform me and draw my attention to a bit of illogicalness in this bill. His name is Janko Radakovic, and he sent me an explanation in writing. So this is about the fact that officials, who usually have reduced salaries in the public sector, now imagine how little motivation they have just now, are now obliged to enter the year, month, day, hour, minute and second of reception. Is there more nonsense than someone to write down how many seconds it was when someone put some paper in his hand? I think from the angle of the clerks this is just another demeaning of their role, their functions and theirs at the end of the job. These are people who have no motivation due to the reduction in public sector wages, and it is very important that they do their job in quality. So it's something that I think we're all interested in, not being quick and not measuring it for seconds when he's got what he's got, but really trying to make it a little easier for these people to do their job and find their motivation somewhere. The number of seconds I think it's completely absurd to introduce this bill, and I think this part should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40171	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go, Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40172	Mr. MP, that's what we're doing today and according to the current law. So, as soon as it's signed up, we have a day and a second and a hour. That's one thing. As far as motivation is concerned, employees of the Republic Geodetic Institute are working hard and are doing their job as professionally as possible. That is why the state has also sought to provide and guarantee a very important 44m-dollar loan, which will take five years for several very important components of the necessary republican geodetic institution. So four components. The project began in October of this year, i.e. October of this year. Just because we are very aware that construction and order cannot be established unless there is a reformed, well-equipped Republic Geodetic Institute. So I believe he'll only be better and we'll have an electronic building permit from January 1st next year. I repeat, for your information, what you put through the amendment is already done, already exists.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40173	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Matic submitted the 49th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Matic. National MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Matic submitted together to the 51st amendment. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40174	Respected citizens of Serbia, in this Article 53, amended Article 129 states in the first position that the decision, or conclusion reached in the first degree, can be declared to the Institute within eight days of the date of delivery of the solution, i.e. through a competent service. In my previous address, I have tried to explain why it is important for some other deadlines to be respected in this case, i.e. to propose a 15-day period and to enable citizens and persons in the process to collect documentation and to make that documentation valid. Given the degree of urgency of today's institutions and bureaucracy, that people really aren't motivated because they have such low wages and because they live really badly compared to the previous period, then we have to bear in mind that waiting for this documentation has to be longer. As for the third attitude, it is said: “If the ministry finds that the complaint has been established, it is required to adopt the appeal and replace the decision within seven working days. “ Our proposal is to do this in a speedy manner. If the complaint is justified, it means that citizens are right and then it is simply an obligation for a civil servant and a state institution to act urgently and that citizen to receive a favor as soon as possible. In this case, there's no need to wait seven days, but it's a proposal to be three days. He says otherwise appeal with case files to deliver to the Bureau within the same time limit. In this case, we predicted that the appeal of citizens and interested parties should be delivered to the Ministry, for the reason that on several occasions we suggested not to repeat that practice that had been bad before, that the same degree of appeal and the adoption of a solution and other appeal would be carried out. So the second degree to be on the same level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40175	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Miroslav Marinković, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40176	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have filed a complaint against Article 53 concerning Article 129, and he says: “At the conclusion reached in the first instance, an appeal may be made to the Institute within eight days of the date of delivery of the solution, that is, through the competent service. “ We have suggested that a new position be added behind this first attitude, which says: “The Bureau is obliged to make a final decision by appeal within 30 days of the day of receipt of the complaint with the case files. “ We have received the answer that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that at the present time the proposed deadline for resolution in the second-degree procedure is not realistic, primarily because of the large number of pending items that the Republic Geodetic Institute will take over from the Ministry. I think you should still accept our amendment proposal and time-limit this procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40177	I thank you, Mr. Braddick. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Gran Ćirić together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40178	It's a similar proposal to the other proposals. Therefore, the final position in paragraph 5 of this article states that an application may be made within eight days of the date of delivery of the solution. Given that the Minister has kept the answers to these questions all along and that her associates have also lost their answers, and I think it is an important question, to tell us, if earlier practice was bad, or if this 15-day period was long, then it would be okay to tell us, since we have a few more amendments that we have proposed in this regard, is this explanation probably related to some of your experiences, good judgment or practice? To tell us that, so we don't waste both your time and your citizens explaining this amendment. So our idea was that it was precisely because of citizens and because in various cases people can't collect documentation, especially people who may live in villages, who live in some municipalities that come, say, in some centres of the region or in some cities where there are geodetic administrations that issue some solutions or some other institutions that give them some information, consent, permits, certificates, etc., then it's completely expected that people can't, and that Mr. Risticevic knows very well, that they respect these requirements and it would not be good that because of the short deadlines that they impose themselves here, people, although they're right about some things, lose their cases or their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40179	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 57th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Antic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together submitted to the 58th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Dr. Aleksandra Tomic has submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together submitted to the 62th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a magistrate, Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40180	Given that we have not received an answer in the previous few amendments and since this is the same proposal, I am really asking at least to sort of respond to the citizens and all the other MPs as they were meant to do when these deadlines are shortened. I want to point out again to you that employees of both the Republic Geodetic Institute and other institutions at the local level have a really strong resistance on the republican level and have no motivation to work after all these bad effects that they have had after the cuts in wages and earnings, and after practically the last three or four years have come into a situation that is very difficult to live, or far worse alive than it was before. I can come from the experience or information I have from Užic and other places in conversation with citizens to tell you that people are simply in a quiet boycott of the application of these laws. This is then reflected in the citizens' interest, whether they need to or must deliver some documentation which, for various reasons, cannot be delivered within eight days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40181	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Master Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 68th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Master Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Veroljub Matic submitted to the 69th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 70th Amendment were submitted by MP Susana Spasojevic. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40182	I thank the chairman. We have submitted the amendment to Article 70, which is amended in force by Article 175 and which determines which persons are taxpayers of the fee, i.e. persons who are exempt from payment of the tax. Since we live in a time when the social needs of citizens are not in some proportionate relationship with the possibilities of the state and that the laws and regulations must follow life, we have suggested that persons on the employment records, single parents or persons in the social protection regime be exempt from paying registration fees, i.e. to be able to fulfil both their rights and obligations when entering the right to immovable property because it is their fundamental right that sometimes because of material inability they cannot fulfil. Given that this is the last amendment to the SPS amendment to the Bill of State Crossing and Catastrophe, I will take the opportunity to make an observation of our parliamentary group that the situation in the cataster has indeed gone better in the last few months, and that we hope that by adopting this proposal of a law relating to the reduction of deadlines, which is of the utmost importance to citizens and which will affect the reduction of congestion in the cataster, a single European standard will certainly be achieved by the catastra. I also thank Mrs. Mihajlović and the Director of Katastra and Associates for recognising that our amendments have been submitted exclusively in one good intention to affect only the improvement of the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40183	Thank you. Parliamentarians Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Master Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic submitted the amendment together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Master Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senić, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milosav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 78th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40184	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that, with what is expected from 1 January 2016, it refers to a truly revolutionary matter with us, which is the issue of electronic building permits. Institutions that will deal closely with these affairs, such as RGZ and cadastre, that they follow these changes that will take place from 1 January 2016 and that one of the 20 priorities defined in the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Agenda for the Development of the Information Society is fulfilled. We're hoping that it will work in the catastrus as of March 1st. We believe that, as only the ministry and the entire government, as well as how they have fought for human training and technical support from January 1st, which will define the possibility of issuing electronic building permits in a quality and efficient way, that such an example will also occur in the RGZ itself. This is also a alignment with what is prescribed in the Law on Planning and Construction, as well as for other tasks of the institution which already provides for the possibility of being in the form of an electronic document and I hope that all of these 20 priorities that define the electronic state will be met in the next period, therefore, all aspects of the work of the public administration that will be electronic. This is what we strongly advocate and how we support as an Economic Cocus, as people who work together with government and ministry representatives to dynamically speed up the development of a good business environment in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40185	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40186	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, how much time do we have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40187	Very little, Mr. Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40188	I just want to thank you for the law, and I hope this works a little bit better for us catastre peasants than it has ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40189	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Katarina Rakic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Jovanovic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, Aleksandar Senic, Zoltan Pek, Vojislav Vujic, Milisav Milojevic, Dr Aleksandra Tomic and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted to the 81st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed the review of the amendments, I've concluded the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Application and the Evident OF CONTRACTIONS FOR A DETERMINED TIME IN ACCOUNTS IN THE CITIZENS, DESCRIPTIONS AND FONDATION You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Under the name of the bill, the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find, Mr. Risticevic, that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40190	Of course. Since I have submitted to these two subsequent laws of 15 amendments, given that the time left for me as a parliamentary group is very short, I will try to use it all the time, hoping that the MPs of the opposition will follow us in full, but I will tell you to save them and us time, I will no longer appear by the amendments that have been accepted, nor by those who have been rejected. I thank you for the rejected amendments, and I thank you even more for those who have been accepted, especially those relating to 11 members.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40191	It's a special pleasure to meet you, Mr. Risticevic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Natasa Vučković, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Balša Bozovic, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, Jovana Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović and Goran Ćirić together. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40192	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens, therefore, the draft law on the registration and registration of tenants indefinitely in dwellings in the property of citizens, duties and foundations, is one of the laws that precedes, we assume, even though the Law on dwellings to be found in some procedure, in some subsequent period, was due to come on the agenda in 2012, but the second majority has been formed, and here is the fourth year of that law in the Assembly. What is essential here is that we believe that there are a large number of persons who, because of age, absence, or for some other justified reasons, will not be able to make timely applications and that therefore it is necessary to allow their associations to do so for them. Only in the Old Town in 298 cases of the city's Belgrade municipality of Stari Grad do we have such a situation that there are predominantly citizens who have this problem with old faces. Many are absent, many do not live in these municipalities, and in that case we think that our amendment is very important to be, if anything, then at least considered, that associations will also have the authority to report their members for themselves. As you know, the problem arose when in the 1990s all or most Serbian citizens were allowed to buy apartments in state or social property. However, there was a smaller group of people who could not do so from the later laws that made it impossible for them. In this case, the state of Serbia has been trying to solve this problem for years and we think it will be resolved and that this is the first way in which to register, and then move on to the House Act that will rightly solve all the problems these citizens face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40193	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. 12 DS MPs submitted to the 4th Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40194	Thank you. When it comes to article four, I'd just get a hold of myself. Therefore, residents' rights holders are required, the tenant also for an indefinite period of time to provide confidence to the public income management of the local self-government unit that the persons of Article 2 of this law and members of his family household are not kept in official records as property owners based on local public incomes. Does he lose the right of one who has, for example, an orchard in the Cortanovites, which has, for example, a field in Bujanovac? Is he losing the right of someone who, beware this case has an apartment and someone else is living in that apartment, someone else who owns a household law in his apartment. Does he, in the sense of this law, lose the rights that allow him to do so? Yeah, that's not good and clearly defined. So we think it's very important to move to local self-government units and be those who will issue assurances and those beliefs are just about to provide units of local self-government, which are already running this kind of record. We will have very many cases that those who have experienced a kind of injustice in the 1990s and who have not been able, for example, to buy apartments, are placed in a subordinate position unlike most, are now in trouble to prove to the state how and in what way they have, whether they have some income from property, whether they have property in some fields, orchards or flats where there is already a household right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40195	I thank Mr. Bozovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaib Kamberi submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Zlata Djeric, the MP Dr Aleksandar Radojevic, submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaib Kamberi submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaib Kamberi submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaib Kamberi submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risricevic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Miroslav Marinkovic together submitted the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, we have submitted an amendment to Article 8 which is originally read – units of local self-government are obliged to call on the tenant for indefinite time and owners of dwellings on which the lease right is based indefinitely, to apply for registration under Article 3 of this Act within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. We have added - "for better information", and this position now says: "The units of local self-government are obliged to invite the tenants to undefined time and the owners of dwellings on which the right to lease is based indefinitely to apply for registration from Article 3 of this Act" within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, so that this member is now more complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40197	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Suzana Spasojevic and Ivana Dinic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by a group of 12 MPs of the Democratic Party. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens, what is important is that, as I have just said, there are many cases in many cities, most in Belgrade, in the Belgrade municipality of Old Town, there are more than 290 of these cases. It's mostly about old people or people who don't live at their addresses. The deadline is for the application that is 30 days, as you have suggested, since it is a huge number of documents, we find it appropriate to allow a 60-day period and these are different documents, they are often difficult to remove. I think it's easier this way for citizens to have one period where they can very much provide some free time when they're going to ask for those documents, since you know that especially in working time, many people are not able to get it. What's important is that this is also the last amendment to the Democratic Party's parliamentary club. Today was a good debate, and I thank everyone for the amendments and for the discussions we had. What remains for the future is that we will speak for sure and in the future on behalf of the citizens, because we believe that these amendments are the product of the problems people in Serbia face on a daily basis. We will continue to defend and represent their interests and think it would be truly fair even if we once had the support of the ruling majority here, not because of the Democratic Party, more because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In every way possible, the Democratic Party has respected this fair debate today, although there were three MPs. You didn't exactly deal with the three of us, and imagine that there were more of us, so you wouldn't have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40199	I thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40200	For your information, if you don't know, all the laws we propose go into public debate. In that public debate, we also talk to associations. The tenants' associations, and we agreed with them that the deadline would be 30 days. That's why, as such, it stands in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40201	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Marijan Risticevic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article be added after article 8. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON TRADE BOARD You have received amendments submitted by Members of Parliament on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 21 by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. I'm asking the minister to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40202	I plead that we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40203	Thank you. I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment and that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment with correction was submitted to Article 182 by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications to Article 196. I'm asking the minister to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40204	I plead that we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40205	Thank you. I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment and that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment to Article 241. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment with the correction was submitted to Article 252 by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment with correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic to Article 265. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment with the correction was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 276 of the correction amendment was submitted by MP Milan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 416 of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I'm asking the minister to make a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40206	I plead that we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40207	Thank you. I find that the Prime Minister has accepted the amendment and that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On members 477, 478, 480 to 493 and 500, MP Marijan Risticevic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 479 and 479 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 480th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Articles 494, 496 to 499, 501, 502, and 505, the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 780th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 793. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 795. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Working Time of the Vehicle crew in the Drumish Transport and TAHOGRAPHICs You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamović, Shaip Kamberi and Stefan Miladinović. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 69th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40208	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Minister, the SPS, when it comes to this package of legislation covering the area of traffic, has submitted only one amendment. This amendment concerned in one part, it was practically a technical correction, while in the second part we considered that the extension of the deadline for tachographs, when it came to the old models of digital tachographs, was enough for two years, given that the Ministry had set a year as a deadline for changing mechanical tachographs. I would take this opportunity to congratulate the Ministry and you on two extremely high-quality laws that we had the opportunity to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-11-19-0.u40209	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I thank all the MPs, especially the MPs Markovic, Bozovic and Bradic, who stayed until the end, the only one of the opposition. I would like to thank Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and her associates for their constructive participation in the session, so it's tomorrow at 1:00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the eighth item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SPECIFIC PROTECTION LAW under Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, and Dr. Nebojsa Jokić and Svetlana Zekovic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Health. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Mladen Grujic, Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Dr Radoslav Jović, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazić, Djordje Stojšić, Mr Dejan Capo, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic and Gordana Čomić. In writing, the amendment was withdrawn by MPs Dr Radoslav Jovic to members 5, 6 and 7 and Mladen Grujic to Article 1. It's a bill of law. You have received a report from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Jovana Jovanovic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I beg the Members of the SPS, we have begun the session. I know, the enthusiasm for Mr. Tonchev's appearance, but you must respect the course of the session. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
