ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. I remind you that in Article 88(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 144 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Milorad Mijatovic and Aleksandar Senic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for the agenda set out in the Government’s request as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see for the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in 2015, the following was determined: D n n e n i d d 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army. National MP Vladimir Djukanovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principled review be carried out on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia. Does MP Vladimir Djukanovic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not 13 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Becic, I believe that the injured members of Rules 110, 111, 112 and 113, and I hope that you will allow me to explain in two minutes, to which I have the right, that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. One of the MPs, one of us here, and there are 250 of us, was prevented from entering the large hall of the National Assembly this morning, and this is MP Zoran Zivkovic, a respected gentleman. Please, just to remind you, by the decision of the chairman of the 11th session of the Second Regular Session of the Assembly, which was just Mr. Bečić, MP Zoran Zivkovic, is away from the session against the provisions of Articles 110, 111, 112, 112 and 113. Rules of Procedure, which, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is illegally restricted to the freedom of expression of one MP. I think, gentlemen, that this is not only about illegality, but also about the illegality of restrictions on freedom of expression, as well as, and that is now one new information for all of us here compared to previous cases, preventing MP Zoran Zivkovic from entering a large hall, and this novelty concerns the disproportionateity of the measures spoken at the session I mentioned here. My proposal, the Honorable Chairman of Becic, is to delay the implementation of the measure of distance from the National Assembly session of the People's Parliament to Zoran Zivkovic, until the Constitutional Court is declared to be a constitutional appeal made in connection with this case to the Constitutional Court by MP Zoran Zivkovic, respected Mr Bečić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20682	Thank you. Just a minute. I'm obliged to give an explanation before I ask if you'd like the Assembly to plead in the voting day. You know very well that Mr. Zivkovic is far from Article 111. Rules of Procedure. You also know very well that by now the Constitutional Court would have respected your request for a temporary measure. So as long as the Constitutional Court is not declared, this measure of the Rules of Procedure and by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zivkovic must spend 20 working days outside the Assembly Hall. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. I thank you. According to Businessman Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20683	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm obliged to advertise Article 103. The Rules of Procedure and I think that, for several days now, a member of the 103rd current Rules of Procedure has been abused here by an independent MP who spoke before me. Obviously, he misses and misses Mr. Zoran Zivkovic's presence, but I want to draw his attention that he is slowly getting used to the absence of Zoran Zivkovic, because after returning to parliament, we expect all MPs to expect, as a moral act, Mr. Zivkovic to resign. He resigns because of his public words, because of the promises he made, because of the bet he lost, but also because of his misbehaving. So it is smarter for Mr Pavicevic to slowly get used to a longer absence of Mr. Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20684	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. The explanation was given, as well as to Mr Pavicevic, who also gave the president of parliament at previous sessions, so I don't think an additional explanation is necessary. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has Mr. Marijan Risticevic, then Mr. Sutanovac. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Ristichevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20685	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, I am advertising Article 103, 107 regarding Article 113. In fact, article 113 says that the distance measure from the session carries with it the absence of 20 working days, and no one decides on it in particular. This Rules of Procedure brought an old lineup of the National Assembly. So he was brought by colleagues on whose list Mr Pavicevic was elected. So I can't believe he stepped on the list of people who broke the Constitution, who brought in the unconstitutional Rules of Procedure. In particular, I cannot believe, since we believe in his academic integrity, that Mr Pavicevic stepped on the list of people who were on this Rules of Procedure, bringing this Rules of Procedure violated freedom of expression. I am in a certain way surprised, a team before the Rules of Procedure is applied for almost ten years. We all remember that according to this Rules of Procedure, one entire parliamentary group is located 20 days away. I think there was only one lady left who represented all of her colleagues who were disfellowshipped from the session. I may be more damaged as a farmer than Mr. Pavicevic, because of the two of us here, I'm the only one present. Also, I must warn you, Mr. Chairman, that in accordance with Article 103 paragraph 8, when someone abuses the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that you are obliged to deny the time he used to discuss the infringement of the Rules of Procedure from the time of the parliamentary group, and I ask you to turn down those five minutes from Mr. Pavicevic, given that he has been advertising the violation of the Constitution, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which has brought the parliamentary group on whose list he has been chosen, quite inappropriately and unfounded. Also, I can't believe that the measure from article 113 does not include the presence of the vote, but Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Pavicevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20686	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20687	Just to finish, Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Pavicevic do not attend the vote even when it comes to Zojo's law and when they make a firm promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20688	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I think this little time that Mr. Pavicevic has, too, I don't want to take up time from that time. If they're ever a serious parliamentary group, when they have more time, then we'll think about it. Mr. Risticevic, do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Veselinović. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: What does a serious parliamentary group mean? I mean, when they're a group of MPs. They're not a group of MPs now. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: It is not serious. That's how it works at the market, on the bus. I don't think I want to do this with you. Mr. Veselinović, if you want to say something, sign up for a word, don't throw it out of the bench, because I don't think that's right. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20689	I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I called in the Rules of Procedure. If you permit, first of all, to say that there are no serious and non-serious parliamentary groups, Mr. Chairman. It's something that may be termologically close to you, but it's not for us. All parliamentary groups are equal here, regardless of the number of members.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20690	Have you answered the line, which member, in which way are you now discussing Mr. Sutanovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20691	I checked in with the Rules of Procedure, if you'll let me know. I got two minutes, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20692	You must quote the member of the Rules of Procedure you called upon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20693	I quoted you first, and I've given you more importance than a member of the Rules of Procedure. Article 97(3), right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20694	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20695	Thank you. Given that today on the agenda we have two extremely important legislative proposals...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20696	Mr. Sutanovac, please, I assume you'll suggest that time doubles, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20697	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20698	But it's not time yet. I'll call you when we get to that point so you can suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20699	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20700	Mr. Pavicevic? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I hurt the Rules of Procedure when I asked Mr. Sutanovec to answer, did I then? Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic, but before that the word has Marko Djurisic, it appeared before you in the Rules of Procedure as well. Here you go, Mr. Djurishich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20701	Dear Chairman, I think you've hurt yourself, member of 100. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the chairman, if he wants to participate in the discussion, can do so by coming down here, into the parliamentary benches, sign up for a word and then say what he has. It is your right to respond to the advertising of violations of the Rules of Procedure, and I think the way you did it is absolutely inappropriate. You do not have the right to comment on whether or not someone has hurt the Rules of Procedure, whether or not a member of a serious parliamentary group is serious or not. Please, you are constantly practicing this right that you have granted yourself, contrary to this Rules of Procedure, which the loathsome majority, several years ago, have brought, you are under obligation as you chair this assembly to respect it. If you don't like it, change it, you have a majority. You have a majority for two and a half years, you could have brought many better Rules of Procedure if you don't like this one, but obviously you do well, especially in the way you apply it by giving yourself the right to do just what you want and not respect it. So if you have any problems and you want to tell the citizens here, come down here, sign up for a word, leave the presidency to someone else, so say what you have. It's inappropriate from that place to make such comments and please don't do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20702	Mr. Djurishic, when you invite someone to respect the Rules of Procedure, I'd like you to do it first. You've been throwing all the time out of the bench, you've been earning all the time and disrespecting the Rules of Procedure and this high house, and now, as chairman, you want me to deny my right to explain to the MP who called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. In my explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the explanation that I feel I have not done any harm to the Rules of Procedure and the question asked by the MP who called for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I must answer, Mr Đurisic, and you want to deny it to me. When he asked me a question, Mr. Risticevic, that he thought I should take the time, I said I didn't think I should take the time away from Mr. Pavicevic, because there's little time anyway. When there is a parliamentary group, a serious parliamentary group, it is now not a parliamentary group, although at some point it is called to think it is a parliamentary group, that is exactly what I said when it is a parliamentary group. I may have been "serious" to the opposition's ears to say something unknowingly or not rightly, but in any case, I don't think you can deny me the right to give an answer to an MP who called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20703	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr. Becic, I believe you just injured members of 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31, as well as 32 and 33. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are members of the action of the president, or vice president of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Becic, I believe that the time of the National Assembly meeting when President Maja Gojkovic is absent should be evenly deployed between the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. You are Mr. Becic's vice president who is the most chair of the National Assembly sessions and, as we can all notice, the proportional time you spend on that chair here, I think, you are also violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic. Look, as if you've grown up with that chair of the National Assembly chair, Mr. Becic, and some of the vice presidents of the National Assembly in this assembly have never had a chance to chair. For example, Mrs. Comic, who is vice president of the National Assembly, respected gentlemen, then Mr. Ninoslav Stojadinovic, who is an academic, who may once or twice, Mr. Becic, had the opportunity to chair the National Assembly. My proposal is that, Your Honor, Mr. Becic, the time of the presidency be evenly distributed so that, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all vice-presidents can carry out their duties as vice-president in the National Assembly, and not that, instead, Mr. Becic, you are constantly sitting there and constantly violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20704	I thank Mr Pavicevic, but unfortunately, don't decide. Under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, in the event of temporary prevention or absence, one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly appointed by the National Assembly shall be replaced, in which he shall inform all vice-presidents and the Secretary-General. So, Mr. Pavicevic, it's my answer again. When in some next election, if you ever get a majority that you can run the National Assembly, then you will decide who will replace you in this case. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20705	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure in Rule 106 have been injured. I call on both you and other colleagues, especially colleagues who are the most agile in advertising violations of the Rules of Procedure, to remind them that today, two very important laws on amendments and additions to the law are also on the agenda. The Serbian Progressive Party is ready for such a kind of debate to adopt these laws as soon as possible. I would also invite those who now, but also in the days behind us, and I believe in the days that will take place, so agilely advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. If only a little or at least a fraction of that energy had been given and given two days ago when we passed Zoya's law, so that they were there for at least half an hour, so that they would have voted for that law, that they would have voted for those children, that no child, any family, such a thing would have happened. No, they weren't there, they weren't voting, they didn't want to help Serbian families, but now they're clearly waving the Rules of Procedure, and that way, here's how much time we didn't get into the session, we didn't get into the debate about the laws that are on the agenda today. I invite you to introduce this session into normal flows and start talking to Mr. Gasic and the people of the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20706	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Your objection is in place. Thank you for that. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20707	The Honorable Chairman, I believe he is a injured member of 107. I, unlike the previous speaker, will say which part of the article 107 I consider to have been injured. This is the first attitude that is said: the speaker at the meeting of the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. We have now heard here accusations that someone will not work and that until two days ago, no law could be passed that is for the benefit of Serbian citizens. We have waited here for the ruling majority of a year and a half to come up with such a law as the need for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When the law finally came on the agenda, after a year and a half, and it's so important, we here had enough political jurisdiction not to talk about why it's only now being discussed, or only two days ago about the law. This is extremely rude, that someone who for a year and a half did not allow this law to come to the Assembly's agenda now tells someone whether he was there when the law was finally passed, only because the public had pressured the ruling party enough to put the law on the agenda. I think it's a serious violation of Parliament's dignity by exposure, where someone is now attacking what they were doing about Zoe's law two days ago. I repeat, we had the political authority not to talk about why this law stood in parliament for a year and a half. Every time Mr. Milisavljevic proposed the law, he did not get enough respect for the ruling majority's MPs to press that button for a year and a half, and now you remember how important it is and to respect someone for what he was doing two days ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20708	Mr. Djurishic, do you ever, any time you stand up to advertise the Rules of Procedure and respect me for something you do with the right? I didn't mean to interrupt, but you just abused the Rules of Procedure. You used the report after the Replicator's injury. (Marko Djurisic, from the scene: And what was it before? You've replicated the People's Parliament, and now you're throwing it out of place. That speaks of you, Mr. Djurisic, in which way you think that only you are right when you speak, when you abuse the Rules of Procedure, and everyone else does it in a way that is inappropriate, and you do what you do, it's all appropriate. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: You did not ask me if I wanted to vote? Do you want to vote? Marko Djurisic, from the scene: Of course I do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20709	Mr. Chairman, members 27 and 108. Once again, I urge us to go to the agenda points today. I don't have a problem talking about every topic, the Assembly, and it is for a debate on every subject, but I would remind you, I would remind other fellow Members and fellow MPs, and I would also remind the previous speaker of the reasons why his MP group had tabled the largest number of amendments to Zoya's law, which is why the SDS MPs were abstained because they said Zoya's law was against the board's session, so they didn't even vote for him. [[Marko Djurisic, from the place: This is not a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20710	What I have allowed you, Mr. Djurishic, I also allow Mr. Babic. I won't let you throw and I'll warn the next one who throws it out of place.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20711	I will remind you and the previous speaker that only the SDS parliamentary group did not sign and did not agree to hold a session of the National Assembly that discussed Zoya's law. The reasons why the government of the Republic of Serbia has wasted time is for the law to be compared with other laws. I am grateful to my colleague, Milisavljevic, for the correct relationship, for the acceptance of amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to amputate politics from the law, and for the introduction of the law to be applicable and decent with other laws of the Republic of Serbia. But those who made the most of the amendments, those who said the law was against the constitution, those who did not support such a session of the National Assembly, those who ultimately did not vote for such a law, really cannot allow us to honor certain things that have nothing to do with truth and reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20712	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Since I can't give regular measures to keep order at the session, and I don't want to make any warnings at this point, I'm setting a two-minute break, to finish these reports by the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Bratislava Gasic, Defence Minister, Zoran Djordjevic, Defence Ministry State Secretary, Biljana Babic, Defence Ministry Secretary Milos Jankovic, Assistant Minister of Defence, General Major Major Bojan Zrnić, Head of Defence Technology at the Ministry of Defence, Brigadier General Dragislav Lacković, Head of the Department of Staff at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Sasa Trandafilović, Head of the Office for Budget at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Slaven Boskovic, Head of the Department for Training of the Serbia Army, Colonel Vjekoslav Bozinović, Head of the Legal Affairs Group at the Defence Inspectorate and Slavica Jerkovic, Senior Advisor, Head of the Legal Administration at the Ministry of Defence. [[After a break.]] In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20713	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, distinguished guests from the Department of Defense, I appeal to Article 97(3). The very fact that almost all of Serbia's military summit, headed by the minister and the secretary of state, is here today, suggests that two extremely serious laws, the Law on the Army and the Defence Act are being planned. Never before has the presence of a uniform person been in the Serbian Parliament when some law was being discussed. I certainly understand that as the necessary support of the defence minister, but I think we should also give support to the MPs we are planning today to discuss these legislative proposals, and on the basis of Article 97(3), I suggest that, with a full understanding of the urgency of these proposals, although I think that this could have been done in the ordinary procedure, the time to consider legislative proposals is doubled. I hope I don't have to explain. The Law of the Army, the Defense Act, is not just laws that treat our army, or just our defenses. These are laws that treat our society as a whole. I think we need to show understanding why we should have an adequate time in parliament to discuss these laws in one quality way. I'm sure the minister and members of the ministry agree. I believe they have nothing to do but stay here because this is extremely important. That is why I call you to put you to the vote and I call on members of the majority who, after a year and a half have accepted to vote on "Zoja's Law", to accept this one proposal that I consider to be extremely good and will bring only quality and nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20714	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Since you've been proposing for a long time, I'm putting this motion to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 143 of the 160 MPs present. I find this proposal has not been given the necessary majority. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia. Does the words of Proposer Representative Bratislava Gasic, Defence Minister, want? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20715	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the draft laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and the Law on the Serbian Army prepared at the Ministry of Defence following comprehensive analyses carried out within the Ministry and the Army, as well as fundamentally conducted public debates on individual material solutions. The defence system was for the first time regulated in a unique way, by the adoption of the Law on Defence at the end of 2007, then by amendments and additions from 2009, so that the Defence Plan of the Republic of Serbia would be adopted on 27 December 2013. The aim of the law is to, based on regular analysis and monitoring of the situation in the application of the law and annual reports in a state of preparation for defence and problems identified in the preparation of the defence plan, address identified shortcomings and address legal problems in ensuring the functioning of the defence system, all this on the basis of established security interests and defence needs and available material and human resources for Serbia's effective defence and security. The decision of the National Assembly of 2010 suspended the obligation to serve the military term in the Serbian Army and to serve in civil service. The law arranged a way of voluntary military service, and after professionalization of the Army. This has forced us to better regulate the way citizens, military bonds fulfil the obligations of additional training and training to participate in the defence of the country in an emergency and war. Based on the observed real state of material equipment and development of Serbia's military and other civil defence forces, and in line with the basic defence planning documents, a more precise solution is proposed when it comes to mandatory adoption of action plans. They provide better and more efficient coordination of all bodies managing the defence system to carry out assigned missions and tasks, military and civil defences, as well as the adoption of real assessments and challenges, risks and threats adopted by the government. In line with the tasks set out in the Defence Plan and the prescribed measures to ensure the real sources of funding provided for in the programme budget, it is proposed that legal persons be disbursed of unnecessary costs for the implementation of defence tasks and that it is necessary to narrow down the circle of legal persons who, in accordance with the law and the balance of the plan, have an obligation to prepare, adopt and finance their own production plans and to perform services for the needs of defence. This will apply only to legal persons of particular importance for the defence which are registered for action of particular importance for defence. In activities of the logistics support of the Serbian Army, the possibility of certain military institutions gaining legal personality status is foreseen. It would work for the needs of the defence system and the military, and in the part of the spare capacity business in the market. This would significantly disburse budget costs for financing beneficiaries of budgets that can also operate on the market. An effective protection of our country's property interests is also proposed when it comes to more rational use and availability of military assets used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army for the purposes of military defence. It also provides for the protection of property interests, when it comes to security in a special military regime, by proposing the organisation of a military defence attorney within the Ministry of Defence for Jobs which has so far been carried out by the Property and Legal Affairs Directorate, on the basis of the authority of the public defender. In this way, additional costs shall be avoided for the education of a specific body, the transfer of extensive documentation on military facilities and the self-ordination of the organisation of work, and in accordance with the competences and organisation to be governed by this law. A significant segment of the proposed changes is also the setting up of specific security measures in defence that not only concern the protection of classified data, as has been done so far, but also the powers to take specific security measures, when it comes to organising military exercises and security measures in the fields of scientific and research activity of importance for security in defence, defined by the government. These solutions from the Law will cover both the diameter and the cadastre, which are worked for the purpose of planning and building military complexes and military facilities, as well as their recording and presentation in cartographic data conducted by the military authorities. This creates mechanisms for the taking of measures when threatened or could threaten the security of defence, for which, in accordance with the law, the Ministry of Defence and the authorities of the administration in its composition are responsible. The changes envision the way office and archive operations are conducted in the ministry and Serbia's military. During the preparation of the proposal, we took care of the specific organisation of the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the existence of military units and military institutions that are organisationally and functionally related to the Ministry, the structure of employees working on the affairs of the state administration, as well as the need to ensure the protection and integrity of the archival building that is created in the work of the resistor, whose head I am. In particular, it should be stressed that it is necessary to protect the archival structure from the work of the taken-over archive of the former SRJ armed forces, which also includes the archival structure of the federal defence authorities and the armed forces held in the Military Archives. The proposed solutions are also in line with changes in the legal system, i.e. general laws governing action of importance for defence or their provisions refer to the application of the Law on Defence of Serbia as well. When these activities are carried out by defence authorities or military bodies, especially in the military regime. This is precisely the subject of the regulation of this law or of specific laws governing the harmonisation of general rules regarding the specific nature of defence affairs and the specificity of military service, the coordination of military education, military-health work, military navigation and others. The most significant amendments and additions to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Defence are the following: the more precise definition of existing concepts and the definition of new concepts; the defence of the Republic of Serbia, military facilities and military warehouses, doctrinal low-level documents; the medium-term plan and programme of development of the defence system; the standard of defence of the Republic of Serbia, etc. SORS; Prescribing obligations to develop action plans for the implementation of the national security and defence strategy ensuring the establishment of obligations of all competent authorities and better coordination and enforcement of all defence and security tasks, as well as the implementation of assigned missions and tasks of civil and military defence, in accordance with the law and adopted defence plans; precision and addition of the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence in relation to the powers provided for by this or other law, which relate to: the recording of territory for the needs of diameter, geodetic works and the production and transport of cartographic material, which are within the authority of the defence body, then the conduct of a special cadast, or the records of immovables used for military needs, special security and protection, the determination of the means of specific purposes and special regime of access and use of military facilities. The changes will allow the monitoring of the state and protection of Serbia's property interests, carried out by the military's defence attorneys, the editing of office operations at the defence ministry and the Serbian Army, in a unique way. With amendments and additions, we prescribe the powers of the commanding and handling authorities of the Serbian Army to produce a document that develops the Serbian Army doctrine, to assist the military forces of security and to form a common force, not only in the event of a threat to the border belt, but also in another part of the territory in which security is threatened, but at the request of the security authority. Closer regulation of how to train citizens to defend the country, given the transition to voluntary military service, so that all citizens have appropriate training to participate in the defence, in case of emergency or war. More specifically, the regulation of the activities of the logistics support of the Serbian Army. Another task of the law is to make more precise arrangements for the provision of data on the basis of which Serbia's defence plan is being prepared, to specify more precisely the preparations for defences carried out by other state authorities and the content of the plans developed and adopted by local self-government authorities and legal persons who have the obligation to prepare, develop and adopt their own production and service plans, by prescribing obligations only for legal persons who, in accordance with the law, are determined by the importance of defence. We also prescribe mandatory records of victims and missing persons in armed conflicts in order to ensure special rights governed by special laws, as well as the evaluation, preservation and development of a military tradition in co-operation with competent authorities in whose work is the exercise of the rights of military veterans and the protection of the monument to their protection. The aim of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia is to remove existing organisations and personnel structures and desperate problems in the organisation, commanding and managing Serbia's military, as well as the exercise of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the Serbian Army, and to provide a legal framework for the proper organisation and protection of the rights of members of the Army. All this in line with the nature and specificities of the military service and in order to ensure the necessary levels of organisational, operational and functional capabilities for the effective execution of assigned missions and tasks. The bill more precisely regulates the organisation and composition of the Serbian Army and how to prepare and adopt acts on organisation at the strategic, operational and tactical level of command, as established in the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia. It is proposed to return the name Air Force and anti-aircraft defence, which is more appropriate in the nature of this vision, especially in the military air force regime, governed by the Law on Air Traffic, the rules of military service and the cultivation of the Serbian Army tradition. More specifically, the specificities of military services covering flight, parachute and diving services carried out in special conditions and regulating specific rules, i.e. military service under difficult conditions, particularly difficult, life-threatening and health-threatening jobs, i.e. those where professional combatants are exposed, special efforts and increased risks in certain formations, on the basis of which they perform special protection under this law. More specifically, the defence minister's responsibility in commanding and managing Serbia's military is being regulated, so he decides to organise joint military exercises in the country, i.e. the participation of members of the Serbian Army in joint military exercises abroad. Then, on the termination of the Office of Officers, or sub-office, it is concluded by the rank of Colonel, if necessary. Due to the need for a maximum degree of control of the use of this institute, as well as a reference to training and training of professional members of the Serbian Army. The power to adopt regulations in civil military co-operation is deleted because it is a matter of doctrinal documents. It shall also delete the competence to determine the species and specificities of the families and services of the Serbian Army, as it is already contained in Article 4(4). The Law on the Serbian Army, which avoids multiple regulation of the same responsibilities. More specifically, the authority of the Serbian Army Chief of Staff in command and command of the Serbian Army is being arranged, including the deployment of officers in the Serbian Army to the rank of captains and officers and professional soldiers, as well as the adoption of doctorate documents at lower levels. It is proposed to reintroduce acts in the form of river units which have been unjustly left out in the basic law. We also arrange to keep special records of members of the Serbian Army, its contents and methods of data protection on military personnel, and all in accordance with the nature of the military service. So far, this has not been governed by the General Law on Labour Recording. The bill regulates a special record of persons at Serbia's military service in accordance with the nature of the military service and the method of determining the name of the units and institutions of the Serbian Army, in order to preserve and cultivate tradition, which is legislation. We also improve the solution relating to reception conditions in the professional military service, which, in addition to the medical ability to carry out military service, require the verification of special psychophysical abilities for military service and during military service. We're equating the upper limit of the years of life for admission to professional military service for a certain and indefinite time, which will be 40 for officers and 35 years for officers. The proposal prescribes conditions for meeting the security criteria for the Serbian Army Service. The military service with weapons becomes a condition for both genders, since the amendment of the Law on Military, War and Material Obligation created the possibility and, in that sense, the decision to suspend the compulsory service of the military term for male persons and to enable the voluntary service of both genders under equal conditions. A provision on the invalidity of the Act of Accession in the professional military service of a person who does not comply with the prescribed conditions is added, as, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, a solution which contains irregularities, which, according to a specific legal provision, is provided for as a reason of invalidity in order to strengthen legality in the work of the competent authorities. It shall be specified that a cadet of a military higher education institution may become an officer after completed schooling, provided that at the time of the reception it meets all the prescribed conditions for admission to service in accordance with the concluded contract, unless it ceases to meet the agreed conditions, or if the conditions for termination of the contract are obtained. The possibility of a professional soldier who has been admitted to a formal post prescribed for a certain time and who spent nine years in the military service on the basis of the extension of the military service contract being directly admitted to work in a formal position prescribed for admission indefinitely, without public competition, as a civilian at the service in Serbia. In order to ensure the proper personnel structure of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army should bear in mind that the military service contract for a certain time is not the same legal institute as an act to establish a working relationship for a certain and time period and that it can last for as long as there is a need to fill Serbia's army, compared to the admission into a working relationship for a certain period of time that may last for the longest year. The content of military legislation and identification cards used by members of the Serbian Army and employees at the Ministry of Defence and their construction trusts the National Bank of Serbia, the Institute for the Making of Coins and Coins. I remind it in accordance with the nature of the data contained in the need to ensure the maximum protection of the data contained therein. It is also arranged for a military memorial of medals and military monuments which represent the special highest military recognitions, and for the purpose of providing special quality and originality. The possibility and way of sending work abroad to members of the Serbian Army is regulated, based on the implementation of obligations undertaken by the concluded international agreement and the needs of the military service. The arrangements for compulsory health insurance of spouses, a moved professional officer, or a professional sub-officer who ceases permanent employment for transfer, so-called extended insurance, are being taken over. Namely, the transitional and final provisions of Article 197. Serbia's Military Act, provisions on the rights to extend insurance and compensation for the termination of employment and members 59th and 59th of the Yugoslav Military Law, remain in force until pension and disability insurance regulations are passed. This law has not abolished this provision, and it is also proposed that the government be empowered to do so in the way in which these rights are exercised. Due to the harmonisation of annual inflows and outflows, it is proposed that an officer, or a sub-officer in service for an indefinite period of time who fulfils some of the conditions prescribed by this law, may cease service in the military where necessary, with the right to retire, without making available, if he has completed at least 50 years of life and if he has a 20-year internship in service as a professional military person. This ensures the protection of rights based on the termination of the service due to organisational changes in Serbia's military force, given that it is a specific profession that is related to the military service. It is proposed that the government arrange the admission of civilians to Serbia's military service as a whole, not just the reception without a public competition. Namely, public competitions are not subject to the rules on civil servants, which are referred to by the provisions of the applicable law, given that civil persons have certain rights, as well as military persons in accordance with Article 134. The law. The obligation to pass a special expert examination before the examination committee educated by the defence minister shall be prescribed. It is also specified which persons are required to pass a professional exam, military officials who have a secondary education of four years, i.e. higher education, and who are exempt from these obligations and are further governing the content of sublegal regulations from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, which refers to the passing of a special expert examination. More specifically, the authority to execute administrative matters in the first degree is regulated by raising itself to the level of commanding officer, unit or conditional Serbian Army in the position of brigade commanders or elders to him as equal, or higher position. It is also foreseen that the Chief of Staff of Administrative Affairs may appoint an elder to the position of Commander of the Battalion or an elder of his standing. Certain provisions relating to disciplinary responsibility in Serbia's military are being specified. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to conclude my presentation by being convinced that because of the importance of the material we are trying to improve, you will support the proposed changes and additions. The law above all allows for better functioning of the ministry, as well as Serbia's armies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20716	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20717	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, members of the Army of Serbia, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing extremely, as already mentioned two very important draft laws. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Serbian Army. I will, of course, speak in this principle debate in the first place about the second item of the agenda, i.e. on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Army. Of course, we will have time for something more detailed to discuss in detail about each specific member, no matter what bill it is, I am sure there are amendments that go towards improving these very legal texts, but of course we will leave it when we discuss in particular. In 2009, at the time of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MPs discussed several draft laws, more specifically a set of draft laws, as well as two strategies from the domain of security and defence. The strategies mentioned in the previous debate in 2004, which had been long awaited in the truth, as well as the laws, or proposals of the military service law, security and the use of the armed forces in multinational operations, somehow earned more attention, and thus completely, not completely, but at least some extremed and put into effect the present Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Army. The most contradictions and the most objections at that time in this home, in the National Assembly, caused the introduction of then a completely new member of 14a, which essentially completely prohibits any contact, i.e. any contact between professional members of the military and those civil society organisations that is directly involved, whether directly or indirectly dealing with defence and security issues. When they were added the same associations from an external association that are also dealing with defence and security issues, then we came up with the number of associations that are not absolutely and even slightly negligible, it was even quite warning, I don't think there was enough attention to that kind of thing. This ban, which is imperative, is still contained in the still existing Law on the Army, its valid Article 14a, which, with these proposed amendments and amendments and changes, I would add in a pretty good direction, but on the other hand, I am in only one part, and of course such an amendment had not been legally justified before, and in addition, such an amendment was both constitutional and not only legally unfounded, but it was also constitutional, but more than that it was far retrograde, it brought us back to some of the sad and unfortunate 90s, when citizens' associations were, at the very least, marked as state enemies number one, and thus the enemies of the entire system, or security sector. Article 14 of the still applicable Law on the military of professional military personnel as the current draft law applies, I would say in a perfectly correct and justified manner and harmonisation, i.e. the full termological introduction of new concepts corresponding to the current structure, i.e. the state of Serbia, is envisaged to delete the term and replace it with the term "professional member of the army". All in order to make a ban wider, it includes belonging to a particular political party, which will refer to all professional members of the military, therefore, and professional military persons, but also to those civilian persons, who are at the service of the Serbian Army and precisely, such a member has already denied the right to political membership to a concrete political party. However, what the Serbian Constitution predicted at that time, as we did not change it in the meantime, does not limit absolutely the right for anyone to participate in the activities of the citizens' association, thus not members of the Serbian Army. I have already said, I am glad that such an existing solution is changed, when it comes to this controversial member, and certainly represents a shift, which is new to say that a professional member of the army can, with the previous consent of the defence minister, approve participation in associations, etc. I'm not going to read the whole proposed article so I don't take up anyone's time. What's a fact, is that this is exactly the kind of proposal that has taken the most of my attention, so that's exactly what I've spent most of my time doing, since one full legal absurd, removes one paradox, I dare say, one complete nonsense that for some reason is, I've stayed all this time in the current bill, which has made it impossible for military members to take part in the activities of domestic associations, and that the absurd is even greater, has allowed them to participate and to be members of a professional foreign association. The truth is, I have to notice that this last one hasn't been changed by any changes or additions we're discussing today. This proposed formulation, at least to me personally, points to the fact that it is now a discretionary assessment of the defence minister, whether or not it will give some member of the army that consent, so I have one question in this regard, which personally presents a misunderstanding to me. That is, what will depend on giving such consent, which the assumptions must be fulfilled, in order for such consent to be obtained and thus restricting the possibility of selectivity that is potentially possible. Of course, as a layman, I'm already asking these questions, but based on some of the conclusions that I've come to, after talking to the distinguished security and defence professors, but also with some members of the army, and I think it's possible that even now, and the proposed member is causing some kind of problems in practice. I'm more of an attitude and, of course, it's my own personal court. I'll allow myself to make a mistake, but it was meant to go in the direction of a complete erasure of this Article 14a. If you're asking me why and how I came to such a conclusion, then I could primarily say in this place that the basis of the democratic civilian control of the security sector besides, of course, all other entities, I mean parliamentary control by the executive and internal control, judicial verification, rests precisely on the public's supervisory role, absolutely all of us, and of course civil society. Therefore, for the reasons set out above, I am of the view that Article 14 should be completely deleted. Where certain amendments were necessary, this was done, and Article 38 of this proposal proposed amending and supplementing Article 90, following the necessity and harmonisation of the provisions of the two laws which are in force in our country, the Law on the Army and the Law on Foreign Affairs, in respect of salaries, additions, fees and other remuneration of officials in diplomatic and consular representations, including specific military services. What is a newspaper and which merits attention and I think that normisation was certainly necessary in this respect both to the defence minister and to the defence ministry at all, concerns the proposal of a new Article 90, and this proposal regulates the status of professional members of the Serbian Army, referred to abroad, in cases which were not covered, of the existing Article 90a, concerns the implementation of obligations undertaken by the concluded agreements. I think that such a solution and the introduction of this new member of the 90th represents more than the necessary reality of the imposed solution that it is now and legally norms, since in practice there is a shift in relation to that practice so far, which is that the things that reality itself confirms are being resolved in a more controversial, ad hoc way, by adopting sublegal acts, i.e. that certain things affecting the armies of the Republic of Serbia are regulated by regulations and are now being done in a more systematic way. At last, such a question is legally normal. It is also good that the amendments to Article 91 are made to certain persons, who are taxed in this newly proposed member of this proposal to amend and supplement the Military Law, which is a soldier-teacher, cadet of military institutions and persons at the second professional training for officers and sub-offices, the defence minister determines other fees in addition to those already well-known. Starting right from European standards, a republican body responsible for statistics affairs no longer publishes data on average monthly earnings per employee in the economy of the Republic of Serbia, and that is also a good solution. I hope that Article 70 of this proposed law will be fully respected, and that, in that sense, the rules for the enforcement of this law will indeed be passed within that time limit set out in the very text of the bill and in its reasoning, so within 90 days of the date of entry into force, because whenever the regulation of certain issues, of course, I have a certain skeptic that no matter what draft law is to be made, when a deadline is left for the adoption of sublegal acts, there is always a doubt, and the best situation is where also sublegal acts are passed, and also the rarest when they are already fully prepared immediately after the entry into force of a certain draft law. It is certainly the intensity of the motions and of this bill, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, the harmonisation of valid solutions with experience in the practical application of the Law on the Serbian Army and the removal of all the problems that are causing, primarily in practice, and then in interpreting the provisions and how the Proposer states in the reasons for the adoption of this law, the removal of perceived inaccuracies, and I would add also the elimination of contradictions, contradictions, inadequacies, gaps, so if you want in certain places and the duality of the provisions, which have been quite abundant in the last amendments and additions of the Vojsca Act. I will use this time that stands for me as the author of the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group to point to the fact that such changes and additions are a reflection of reality, and that this same reality is depicted, no matter how it is, since in the assessment of our general reality I will not engage. The social aspect seems to me to be crucial when we talk about the Serbian Army, because it sublimes and restores reputation, but also, in addition to restoring reputation, and restoring trust, restoring the attractiveness of the military call, or military profession, and that is already a certain time and a few years ago visible, which is certainly generally desirable and something like that should be commended. We've had a rather dark past not so long ago, I dare say even the darkest years of our army. This mentioned social dimension of the army can never and never in any country be achieved without public support, because it is the public that perceivs or as part of the system, which, I say, in the last few years the situation has been quite improved and it needs to be made public, or as a state in the country, and what the fact it was in the already mentioned darkest years right after our army. By reading certain military works of different authors, I apologize to this time, I don't know the author, so I can't say his name, but I'm going to paraphrase a sentence that I somewhat remembered, and it's about like this -- that the reform swing in Serbia started after the five-octobaric changes, that it then reached the army in 2003, but that it had dramatically weakened since the spring of 2004, in a complete absence, in a complete lack of political articulation and even internal readiness for change. I mean, this sentence really painted something that belonged to the past. Namely, let's remember the end of 2004, let's remember 2005 and 2006. At that time in military facilities across Serbia, you know, at least so many soldiers were killed as if we were at war, as if there were no peacetime opportunities in the country of Serbia. Remember the murdered Guardists Dragan Jakovljevic, Drazen Milovanovic, killed at the military facility "Karas" on Topcider on October 5th 2004. Remember the soldier who was killed in Leskovac. Remember the soldiers who were killed in Bor and in many other barracks of those years and all young soldiers who in fact wanted to respond to a military call, to serve this country honestly and honorably, but not to this state, were completely victims of a war policy, according to my court the most incompetent government in history with an epithet known as uninformed, and which in peacetime conditions actually turned into hiding war crimes perpetrators, which in truth at those years of that government was obviously the most significant state business. Since I'm away from this topic, I won't talk much. Since our parliamentary group has also submitted several amendments, of course, we always submit amendments to improve the legal texts, we will discuss this in detail in the debate in detail. In the end, I just want to say in the context of the soldiers mentioned, I don't think the Serbian Army should ever forget them and never forget them. She should be proud to have such honest and honest young people in her ranks. If I think of such an army and forget, there will always be someone who will be there to remind me of such a thing. Of course, in the day to vote, the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club will support and vote for the proposed amendments and additions and the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army of the Republic of Serbia in the first row because they reflect the reality and needs of our situation in the military, and on the other hand, it can be concluded that they represent, to a good extent, one technical harmonisation and thus complete completion with already valid laws that are in force in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20718	Thank you, Miss Batic. Mr. Djordje Kosanić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20719	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, are before us today two draft laws on defence and Serbia's Army. At the very beginning, I will say that certainly the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed legislation. We will support them because their adoption ensures the effective functioning of the Serbia Army primarily, as well as a unique and efficient defence system. At the very beginning, I will say that in time, the Serb soldier was always respected and respected, even by his opponents, and the entire military strategy of Serbia, as military countries in the last two centuries, was based solely on self-defense. Today certainly Serbia as a country that is militaryly neutral and, on the other hand, which has associates in both the east and the west, gentlemen, should have a strong army, an army that has strong morals and develop military potentials and a military industry. I'll remind you that in the former Yugoslavia, which at the height of its power exported military equipment and military weapons in the amount of, you probably haven't heard, of as much as four and a half billion dollars. Now what I'm saying is, I just can't do this without saying, about last year and the military parade, Minister, it's a great honor for what we saw. At one point, we all felt proud. We've seen new weapons, technology that we have and the achievements of our experts. But I have to say, here it remains regrettable, looking at all this, that perhaps in some past time we've given up some wartime and military equipment too soon. When I say that, I'll just make some examples. Like, tank T-55. We've easily given up a large number of these weapons. I think he's still in use today in a large number of countries, and on the other hand, he's in use even in a large army of the Russian Federation which, you'll agree with me, has the most modern tanks of today. On the other hand, I'm going to mention another example. It's an easy-to-use anti-aircraft defense system called the Two-M Arrow. For those who don't know, it's used to fight low-flying planes and helicopters, and in its composition, there are over 60 countries in the world today, if I'm not mistaken. On the other hand, he showed his good characteristics in Vietnam, over 70 aircraft were shot down. But what matters to me here is that in some past time, the Yugoslav Army and its successors, the Serbia-Montenegro Army and the Serbian Army, later had over a thousand of these systems. Unfortunately, we don't have any today. I just want to say that it remains regrettable that we may have rejected some other systems too soon. Returning to the very proposal for a law on defence and the Serbian Army, I would like to say that the adoption of these laws is a legislative matter. It was simply that there was no other way to change this law, but by passing a new law. Amendments and additions to the two laws should provide basic reform processes in the defence system and the Serbian Army. I'll just remind you that the last changes, as far as this goes, took place in 2009. We had, to say, a lack of clarity and there were a lot of problems in their application. It should also be said that some amendments to these two laws have occurred because it was necessary to comply with the other regulations adopted, such as the Law on Public Property, the Law on Air Traffic and the Law on Inland Navigation. So, some things had to be done because our laws often refer to general regulations. What's the paper in the new law? I'll just get some papers, so I don't go into the details. First, the adoption of military defences as a special institution dealing with the protection of the ministry's property and legal interests, both defences and Serbia's armies. In addition, the proposed law provides for training of citizens, which was once in practice, but what is important, what should be said here is that relying on a professional army alone does not allow itself a much more developed country than Serbia. What we're introducing now will lead to a more efficient functioning of the defense system. Then, the Serbian air force will be called the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defence in the future. The change of this kind of army will allow for its continuity and tradition. These changes satisfied former active fliers, whose support was on the side of the old name, which was changed, if I am not mistaken, in 2004. Also, these laws will for the first time define the work of members of the Army during pregnancy and during maternity periods. What's with the paper? During that period, they will not be relieved of their duties, but their function will be frozen and they will do their job uninterrupted upon arrival. The paper also says that these changes prohibit participation in political parties of civilians and all employees of Serbia's military, not as before, only professional soldiers and persons. Most importantly, the powers of the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence and the General Staff have been specified. Finally, I will say that these laws are certainly a major step forward and the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20720	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20721	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Army of Serbia, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to address the two laws that are under public debate today, i.e. at a future vote. These are the Law of People's Defense and the Law of the Army. As for these two laws, which have been prepared for quite a long time and which have passed public discussions and preparations in working groups, the basic task of the amendments that have been made is to address the perceived shortcomings in the practical application of these legislations, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to bring the necessary alignment with the changes made in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which relate to the matter governed by these two laws. Namely, these texts, which are proposed to us today, are the result of analysis and preparation of working groups and they are to give us today to discuss them in principle and in particular. As far as the Defence Act is concerned, it brings first and foremost new definitions of terms and the harmonisation of terms used in this law for the uniform use and removal of certain inaccuracies observed in the work so far, i.e. in the application of the current rules. Then, the powers of the President of the Republic, the Government, the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Army and the General Staff of Serbia are specified, also in line with the powers laid down in other laws, whether they are following or supporting the Law on Defence, for example, the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other forces in multinational operations, etc. The proposed legislative changes are closer to regulating powers for the adoption of sublegal regulations. This is what we have closer defined in Article 16. The bill, to enforce this law, which was not precisely regulated in valid, existing legal matter and which is why some sublaws could not be passed. Then, here he pays great attention to inspection surveillance in the area of defense. A whole series of members who regulate this matter, in particular inspection tasks, will be introduced, to be carried out by the defence inspectorate as an authority of the administration as part of the Ministry of Defence. It is very important that this law also complies with the Law on the Budgetary System, the Law on Public Property, which has been passed in the meantime, and finally the Law on Public Procurement that we have recently changed and adopted. Also, defence planning documents, such as strategic-doctrinary documents, development planning documents and power use documents, are established, and each of them shall be defined in particular which documents enter into their composition. Also, the institute is being introduced, so to speak, a medium-term plan and a defence system development programme as a very important prerequisite in the development policy of the defence system. As I have already noted, the powers of the President of the Republic are being extended, such as giving consent to the drafts of all basic development planning documents and other basic strategic-doctrinal documents. Also, the government's competences are related to this matter, such as the adoption of an evaluation of military and not military challenges, risks, threats, the adoption of action plans for implementation of strategies, etc. More specifically, responsibilities in the area of planning and construction of military facilities, a common civil-military air traffic management system, an area of domestic waterway traffic, and with regard to the specificities arising from such a type of traffic and the fact that it is a military traffic regime, of course, always for the needs and parts of the Ministry of Defence. It also complies with these provisions, i.e. the provisions of this law with laws governing similar matter, such as the Law on Planning and Construction, the Air Traffic Act and the Internal Navigation Act. In addition, special duties of the Ministry and other state authorities shall be regulated in the process of preparing and implementing defence plans in the operations and activities carried out in relation to their responsibilities. Then, in Article 107, as a particularly significant newspaper, businesses of protection and representation of the property and interests of the Republic of Serbia in respect of assets used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army are being introduced into the military defence institute, taking into account the scope and specificity of the property, i.e. the specificity of the military organisation as such, military activities, military services, as well as the existing practice of parallel legal practice that exists in other countries. In this regard, I would only point out that it is proposed that military defence be a special organisational unit of the Ministry of Defence that will take legal action and legal means to achieve and protect the property interests of the Republic of Serbia in terms of the funds used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, and for the purposes of defence and security. This solution is proposed in the light of Article 2. The Law on Defence, which we adopted last year in 2014, which stipulates that special legislation will regulate the affairs of the defence of property interests and rights of the Republic of Serbia in the proceedings which have the rights and obligations of the Republic of Serbia in relation to the work of the Ministry of Defence, military units and military institutions which are organised by the Ministry of Defence and Military Affairs. This has proved to be one good newspaper, the establishment of military defences, and on the line is parallel to the legal practices of states that also have similar institutions for the affairs of representation of property interests conducted by the authorities of the Ministry of Defence. Such institutions are found in the region, Macedonia, Croatia, Greece, Italy, Turkey, Romania, and, of course, outside the region. As the next paper, passed by this law, the logistics support provided for by this law, which gives the government the authority to establish military institutions with the status of a legal person who can provide services outside the defence ministry and the Serbian Army under market conditions. The obligations of citizens in Article 28 are also foreseen by giving citizens, i.e. the obligation to carry out military labour and material obligations and obligations to participate in civil protection, as well as the obligations to participate, which is the paper, in training for defence purposes, and in accordance with the law and decisions of the competent authorities. As one of the major changes, I would like to quote an amendment supplementing the law, which concerns security measures for military facilities and areas in which these facilities are located, as regards physical and technical security, security protection, how these measures are determined and how these measures are carried out. The next paper this law adopts is to regulate the way of execution, the way of execution, the excuse, the research of importance for defence and especially for natural and legal persons in the affairs of research, which are linked to the basic activity of the Serbian Army, or the Ministry of Defence. These researches can have special importance for the development of the defence system, for specific measures to protect the country's secret information on defence and security. The matter of defence planning is arranged, by establishing the responsibilities of legal persons of importance for defence and by going forward, to meet new solutions. It also provides for measures related to the protection of classified information. As regards these new measures for the protection of classified information, security measures are taken in the organisation, implementation of military exercises, the way in which secret information is defined in defence and security, the prohibition of access and recording of certain military facilities, which we have so far, but in the use of new nomenclature techniques, then the prohibition of construction in the areas of these facilities, the prohibition of construction in the border belt, the introduction of data on military facilities into cartographic publications in order to respect the confidentiality of data, etc. All these proposed solutions should remove the lack of legislative regulation of this matter, which has been governed by earlier regulations, and some of these rules have ceased to apply in the meantime. As for the second law on the agenda today, the Law on the Army, here, the amendments apply to the regulation of substances that have not been regulated or very framed by law, so this new Law on the Army is more regulated or regulated by new institutes that have not been regulated so far. For example, it is about military legislation, identification cards, possibilities to refer to work abroad on the basis of the implementation of obligations undertaken by the conclusion of international contracts, etc. There is also a particularly important point of matter to be addressed, to be agreed with the needs of the military service, the organisation of the Serbian Army, the specific military service and service under difficult circumstances, the powers of the defence minister, the head of the Serbian Army's general staff in command, the management of Serbia's Army, the conditions for admission to professional military service, the resolution of service conditions, the termination of service as needed, salaries, cash compensation, the reception of civilian persons, etc. In this regard, I would like to refer a suggestion to parliament, and it concerns the authority now given by the defence minister under the new draft law. It seems to me as a professor of the right that these powers are very broad, they also have elements of discretionary, which, of course, in these circumstances that exist are sometimes very necessary and necessary solutions. But on the other hand, you yourself know that over-expanded discretionary powers in themselves always hide a single dose of caution, not to say danger. I would particularly apostrophe, for example, Article 6 where it is said that professional members of the Serbian Army instead of the ban are allowed to participate, with the prior consent of the defence minister, in the activities of the association, or Article 7, which clearly regulates a specific military service under difficult circumstances and determines the authority of the defence minister to appoint jobs with the consent of the government, etc., or Article 8 again, a similar syntax of the authority of the defence minister in the commanding and management of Serbia is a strong act, so he is authorised to bring acts that are governed by the Serbian Army. I think it's very wide-ranging. It would be added by Article 14a, which counterpart Batic has already mentioned. So, I just think maybe we should introduce some objectivity parameters into this, in my opinion, quite broad powers of the defence minister. Furthermore, regarding the introduction of a special expert exam to be conducted by civilians at the service in the Serbian Army, it seems to me to be a quite good solution. The conditions to be provided to persons, the qualification degree to be able to participate and which are necessary for their work, so that they cannot be obtained only through state examinations within the profession, but that those persons must also have additional education. Additional conditions must be met in order to be able to successfully carry out tasks and tasks at their posts in the military, or in defence affairs. It is proposed to establish the right to extended insurance and compensation, meaning one improvement in the equal status of persons employed in defence affairs in the Ministry of Defence and in all other relevant institutions, for example because of the termination of employment of a spouse, a transferred officer, or a sub-office who ceases working relationship indefinitely, etc., that I do not now enter these details. But I think one very good, one positive, social shift in the status resolution of equal, the relationship of persons employed in defence-related jobs and the country's army. All these existing solutions, which have been proposed by one law and another, have in fact been tasked with, as I said at the outset, removing shortcomings, making the necessary alignments, filling out legal gaps where they existed and improving the system of the military, or the defence system. Finally, to say that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of both laws and the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army in the day set for the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20722	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20723	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I would like to answer both Mrs. Batic and Mrs. Besarovic on this issue concerning Article 6 and Article 14a. This is what we wanted to make closer to the conditions of the participation of professional members of the military in the work of different associations and, of course, under closer sublaws to regulate the basis, and will depend on their expertise, of course, competence and what is most important in the Serbian Army, which is that the Serbian Army professional service will also have to give its opinion whether members of the Serbian Army can participate in these associations or not. Of course, the consent of the defence minister is the last act that approves the participation of members of the Serbian Army in these associations and, of course, it must be seen in the professional service not to conflict with the rules of military service i.e. if it is not sanctioned by the Law on the Army of Serbia and regulations in military discipline, that is, Article 149 point 26. if such participation would injure the principles of impartiality or political neutrality or represent the expression and representation of certain political parties in that context is that member of Law 14a. What you need to know, and you said about article 6 in relation to article 14a. Yes, the professional military service is based, above all on the principle of single-age and subordination, so a professional member of the Serbian Army cannot participate in any activity outside the service without the knowledge of his superior elders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20724	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20725	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, members of the Ministry of Defence, military members, fellow MPs, we have today amended and supplemented two important laws, and we all agree that after more than five years, it is time to amend and amend the Law on Defence and the Army, given that in the meantime, some laws that have been adopted that have virtually amended or left inconclusive. I think it's a good thing we have these two laws before us today. What I failed to hear today from the minister, nor to conclude from what it says under these two laws, is why have these two laws been passed in the National Assembly by emergency procedure? Unless it is, and apparently it is the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, that practically all laws, regardless of their content, come to the Assembly by emergency procedure, are debated without being able to conduct some public debate on them and that MPs are brought to the conclusion that something must be adopted as proposed, without being able to have a quality effect on changes and changes or to hear that there are other solutions. I am particularly saying this because the fact that these changes are the fruit of the public debate that was conducted in 2014. I'm aware of that, and that's why I didn't understand why it was an emergency after all this? The Law on Defence does not state at all why an emergency procedure is necessary, while the Law on the Army says that there is a member of the 192nd existing law that ceases to apply on 1 January 2015, in fact as of 31 December 2014. Today is as far as I know, January 26, 2015. So this member of the law has not been important for 26 days and what is often asked of us here as a question when we criticise the laws that are being passed on a day, two, three before some deadline should expire - what will happen if these changes are not adopted, then today I ask the question – what happened on January 1st why this law was to be passed by January 1st and what damage has occurred in these 26, 27, 28, how long will it be until this law is passed? We haven't heard any of it from the minister, but now, as usual, we have an emergency procedure in law making again, and so do these two essential laws. Most of the amendments and additions to this law are considered good and we will support these changes, of course, with several suggestions that we have made through the amendments. That these laws are not ideal or best possible, says the government's own procedure, which, which is not said here, has given itself five amendments to the amendments and additions to the Military Act on 20 January. So on December 15th last year, the law was passed, and then the government realized a little more than a month later that she had written something wrong in that Military Act, so she gave us amendments. So he's saying it again about how unserious it is when laws are passed by emergency procedure and how much it doesn't make sense. To make it much better to do as the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly had predicted, that the laws would come in accordance with the regular procedure, that they could be discussed, that public hearings would be organised, and only then would they enter the congregation. But, well, we have what we have today, and I want to look back at some things that I don't think are good at. Although the minister explained that it is not good for him to remain a member of the 14th in the law, which says that members of the military and ministry are now unable to participate in some co-operation with the non-governmental sector, i.e. that the minister gives consent, because this leaves the possibility of arbitration of the minister to give someone away, especially if there is a member of the law allowing members of the military and the ministry to co-operate with foreign NGOs and foreign organisations, so it is not clear why it is limited to domestic ones. We also believe that it is necessary to further define a restriction on the rights of military persons and members of the ministry to their political activity. We believe that political activity should not be allowed, but we think that there is another way of their participation in the social life of a community that should not be subject to the ban or approval of a minister. We also believe that an existing member of 63. The Army law should remain. We do not understand that the reason for eradicating certain points is the fact that this has not occurred so far in practice. We think it should remain an option, it says, that doing a duty in a legal person, without the approval of a competent authority, establishing companies, not passing management rights, and all of this can lead to a potential conflict of interest, that it should remain in the law, regardless of what has happened so far in practice. He may appear, and then there will be a problem that there is no such restriction in the law. We also believe that the term - air force and antiaircraft defense, should stand. We do not agree to introduce an appointment - and a military air force. We think that Serbia's history has been so burdened over the past 20 years and that pacification in every possible place is something that will contribute to a better future for citizens of Serbia and our children. We believe that the term - the air force of war, should not be introduced as a more appropriate term for both today's moment and the future that we want for our country and our children to remain a term - the air force. The Defense Act introduces an important newspaper. It is the defence inspectorate and the jurisdiction of the defence inspectorate and we support it, but we believe that the defence inspector should be allowed by law to address in certain cases the competent committee of the Serbian Parliament, as we have the case for the inspector, who controls the work of the VBA and VOA, to address the relevant committee of the Assembly in certain situations. We have foreseen our amendment to introduce this possibility, as well as to introduce the possibility that once a year, not the possibility, but the obligation for the Defence Inspectorate to submit a report once a year to the committee responsible. We believe that democratic civilian control of the military is a very important segment of our society and the security of all of us. We believe that, unfortunately, what is currently foreseen by the legislation is not being implemented until the end and that it would be better if the laws introduced the possibility of a greater involvement of the National Assembly as a central place where the representatives of the citizens are sitting, all of us, because that is the case and that more is being done and insisting on it, would probably not have had a situation that has been happening in the last few days, where we have a conflict of the Minister of Defence with a single Constitution defined state institution, the institution of the Protector of Citizens, where we use extremely inappropriate words and accusations by the Minister on the report and objections given by the Citizens' Protector in accordance with its powers. If there were more democratic and civil control of the work of the military and military security services, if all the mechanisms of control had been used by this Assembly, the Security Service Control Committee, were likely to have been called up by now and asked to investigate everything in the Citizens' Protector's report. Also, the defence minister, I believe, should have more respect for the Assembly, so I would like to inform you that he was not on the Defence and Home Affairs Committee since July of last year and he did not give us a three-month report for the second or fourth quarter of 2014. Which is why he avoids doing his duty - I don't know. Did he want to avoid talking on the board about all those issues that were interesting for citizens in the past six months? I don't know, and I don't know if the minister's gonna say any of that today, but either way, the place for it is the board of directors. That the committee in charge was discussing, e.g. about everything that happened at the end of September on the day when there was an organized parade of pride in Belgrade, probably not in January to have a controversy about it, but rather wait. I agree in one part that the court should determine everyone's responsibility, but there are issues that are not for the court. For example, questions -- who ordered members of the army to be next to the prime minister's brother and brother, the mayor of Belgrade, who signed this order, on what basis and were there any abuses? Of course, when the minister will not respect parliament, when there is no quality democratic civilian control, then we have a discussion in the media, then we have accusations that go to some personal level, are completely inappropriate to a democratic dialogue, and therefore I call on the minister, first to accept our amendments, because we think that they will improve the proposed drafts of the law and allow us to make these amendments and amendments to the law, and then to respect the laws that we adopt today, or adopt in two or three days, when there will already be a vote, but also those legislative provisions that are not being amended and which are in force now, which mean that he, as minister, has certain obligations to meet the parliament of the Republic of Serbia which he chose for that function, not the main committee or presidency of his party, and that he has the obligation to strengthen democratic and civilian control of the Army, because this is a prerequisite for further development of Serbia as an important segment of our society. I hope that today's discussion and solutions that will be adopted will contribute to the further development of Serbia's Army, to be a segment of society with which RS can be proud, which, above all, by fulfilling the international obligations that the Republic of Serbia has undertaken in previous years and by participating in many international missions, over 500 members participate and risk their lives every day to increase, above all, the work and the rise of this reputation in the future, but I repeat, the precondition for this is further democratic and stronger democratic and civilian control of the work of the Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20726	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Bratislav Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20727	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I absolutely respect this assembly, all the MPs in it, absolutely respect the Committee, which you're talking about that I wasn't present, so, the Department of Defense has, on everything that is and when it was called to the Security Service Control Committee, always been present. I wasn't there last time because I was on an official trip. All the reports that were asked of us, we have always and in time taught this congregation. The public debate, when this law, as far as both laws are concerned, went past last year and were only downloaded due to a lack of time for the Assembly to discuss them at the end of 2014. What happened to us was this very discontinuity of Article 192, and then there was a major outflow of members of the Serbian Army at the end of 2014, in December. If we had adopted this law then, we would have secured a peaceful outflow of personnel. As for the amendments the government submitted, I'm asking you, and they're here, it's just a legal-technical order that's changed in that, so it's not like the government saw anything wrong, so it's been changing. Please, if we're talking about it, we're not using artificial political traps, we're talking specifically, with papers. The Defense Inspectorate has existed so far. It is not being introduced as a new institute in Serbia's Army, but so far, according to the old law, its recommendations, its findings were not applicable. They ordered, there was no responsibility for this unless the inspectorate's decisions were implemented. It is by this law that we introduce a defence inspectorate to each other, that his recommendations must be clearly defined and implemented in the units they have controlled. There's been a lot of speculation in the public about what a defense inspector is, and what a defense inspector is. The defence inspector is an independent body set up by the Serbian government to control the legality of military security and military intelligence agencies and the Ministry of Defence, and the Defence Inspectorate is another body, please. I'm telling you, all the reports that were asked of us, we are without any problems, and we will always, of course, follow the Constitution, above all, and the law of the Republic of Serbia will always be handed over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20728	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Filipovski, before I give you my word, just to ask Dr. Dragoljub Micunović, on what basis did you answer? Mr. Micunović, on what basis did you answer? You're in the system, you signed up. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: The system is not running.) No, Mr. Sutanovac, the system is working well right now. Perhaps Mr. Micunovic accidentally pressed. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20729	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, welcome today's decision that, beside you, the Secretary of State, at this debate in parliament on amendments and additions to the law on defence and the Serbian Army attends almost an entire military summit. I think it's for every commendation, that it should be a practice in the future. As for the law on defence and military, amending and supplementing the law on defence and the military, I think the two basic objectives for the proposed changes are. The first is the more efficient functioning of the Army, and the second is to specify certain provisions that exist under the existing law, they are not. On this occasion, I would like to tell you that the NS Parliamentary Group in the voting day will support both amendments and additions to the military and defence laws. At the beginning of my presentation, on behalf of the NS Parliamentary Group, on the amendments and additions to both of these laws, I would like to point out, because of the citizens of Serbia, the research of a respectable internet portal – Global Firepower, which takes more than 50 different factors into account when ranking the world's armies to measure the strength of each army individually. The RS Army ranks 60th among the 106 countries in the world, whose armies have even earned the attention of being focused on this research. Considering the fact that we've been since 2008. in the economic crisis and that the Ministry of Defence has had a decrease in the budget because of it, I don't think we should be unhappy with this place and that, in my opinion, it gives some hope and optimism that things will improve in the future. If we make a comparison only with our closest environment, the Serbian Army, for example, is better ranked than three countries in an environment that are members of the EU. These are Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovenia, while, for example, the armies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania are not focused at all, are not on the list. Only Croatia, Romania and Greece are slightly better ranked than we are. Also, I think it is very important that, despite the fact that the military budget is increasing on a percentage year-on-year, for this year it amounts to some 63 billion dinars, I think things in the Serbian Army have improved significantly, resulting in a better internal organisation. In this sense, I will only list a few basic parameters: budget spending is now 99.7%, while earlier it was lower by about 12%, as well as oil and oil supplies, as well as food reserves is 70%, which is much more than before. It's also working on supplying new quality uniforms, while the number of hours of attack planes has been raised from two to 40 hours a year. These are, of course, relatively modest results, but given the overall economic and financial situation in the country, they are not negligible and show that in the military and the Ministry of Defence it started with household treatment, which, of course, is commendable. When we look at what happens every day in our relatively close environment, I think the role of the Army is even more important. The latest terrorist act in Paris and the wars that take place in Syria, Iraq, Libya and Ukraine tell us that we have a great unknown about the further development of events in the world and this makes us focus on further strengthening the overall defence capacities of society in general, thus also Serbia's armies. We don't just have these external risks, we have internal risks. The floods last year in May showed great engagement of the Republika Srpska Army, because it was the first to come to help, which is somehow a tradition in our society. Thus, even this segment in the overall role of the military must not be ignored when the means for modernising it and operational functioning are determined. I think our comparative advantage with respect to the armies of countries in the environment and the fact that we have preserved our dedicated industry, which, thanks to our long-standing experience and good references, should represent, not only the logistics of our military, but also one of the most important elements in fixing our foreign trade balance. As for the proposed amendments and additions to the law, I think a good new solution is in Article 104. The Defence Act, which stipulates that under the terms of the prescribed law, the Ministry of Defence has public-private partnerships, can conclude public-private partnerships, because these long-term agreements on establishing co-operation with private partners can be of great importance for defence, not only for financing but also for construction, reconstruction, maintenance of military facilities, as well as for providing services based on adopted programmes and projects for the development of the defence system. A positive shift in this law is, in my opinion, a precise surveillance system. It is particularly important to introduce a explicit obligation to oversee material and financial business, as well as to use dedicated and legal resources of users in the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. According to the current solution, the obligation to inspect material financial operations within the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army is imposed only indirectly in Article 18. Defense law. The powers and duties of inspectors, as well as other persons authorised to carry out inspection tasks, are now more precisely regulated. It is important that they are explicitly given the authority to review both general and individual acts, records and other documentation, then, to review business premises, facilities, devices, objects, goods and to take statements and, where appropriate, written statements from managers and competent officials. Also, a new member of the 17a of this law stresses independence in the work of inspectors and authorised persons within the limits established by the law. The Defence Inspectorate, on top of all that, reports the Minister of Defence on the occurrences of a violation of independence, as well as the illegal influence on the work of the inspectors and other persons authorised to carry out inspection tasks. As a member of the Women's Parliamentary Network in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say that I am very glad that some new solutions in the Law on the Serbian Army are intended to improve equal and every other position of women, whether they are actively engaged in the professional army, and all of us are more and more in this segment, whether they are wives of professional officers and sub-offices. Thus, for example, a new member of 72b is prescribed that the spouse of the transferred officer, i.e. a sub-officer, has the right to pension and disability insurance, as well as to compensation for the termination of employment for a maximum period of six years in the event that there is no possibility of employment in the new environment, and of course provided that his previous working relationship has ceased indefinitely as a result of the transfer of his spouse. Also, a new provision in article 75 says that a professional military person, who is prevented from performing his duty because of pregnancy, maternity leave, child care or special care of a child, is not relieved of his duties and has every right under the general rules of employment. In the same sense, Article 112 of the Law is complemented, so that now a professional member of the army who is working on a fixed period of time extends this period until the expiry of the right to leave during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for the care of the child and leave for the care of the child. At the end of this presentation, with the notice that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support both these amendments and the additions to the law, I wanted to ask you if this year it will be possible for Serbia to get the first wife of the generals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20730	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go, Mr. Gas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20731	Mrs. Filipovski, first of all, thank you for your kind words. You have confirmed only what we in the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence have repeatedly claimed, that gender equality in the Serbian Army is at a very high level and that more and more members of the Serbian Army are in the ranks of the army. I'd just like one more thing about participation in associations to clear up. So far, according to the old law, professional members of the Serbian Army could not be members of any of the domestic or foreign associations whose work is part of defence issues. According to our proposal, they will be able to be members of these associations, but provided that sublaws prescribe exactly what it is they need to meet to be able to participate in the work of these associations. I think it is clear to the citizens of Serbia, you and everyone why we want to maintain this discretionary right, because there are many associations that do not deal with their work here just to do something, here, but to be able to collect information that is important to other foreign services. Anyway, thank you again for your kind words. As far as the general's wife is concerned, you know that it is the rules of the Serbian Army, that all conditions must be met and that the General Staff should be the one who proposes the defence minister and the defence minister to the President of the Republic, in order to reach an indication. Before that, you must satisfy all those conditions that stand before and for a certain period of time in the rank of the colonel and move to the post of general. Of course, honestly, I'd like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20732	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20733	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Lady and gentlemen of the Department of Defense, I think it's a shame that we're adopting these laws in the time of a major affair that shakes both the Ministry of Defense and the Archives and that it's a pity that it's not solved in the way the law prescribes and that it allows, as you would say in the constitutional category, Omudsman to do his job adequately. I would remind you that, as you said, the defence laws and the military were adopted in 2009, that in 2011, it was necessary to edit certain parts that were not functional and that at the end of 2011, a group was formed to analyse which amendments and amendments of the law should be done and what is to be found in the Serbian Assembly. What I think is very bad, is that there has not been a change in strategic documents, defence strategies and the National Security Strategy, because I think we lost one pace and we're going to have to change them because, finally, the security environment, both in the region and in the world, has changed completely since 2009, and the question is whether Serbia today has certain non-wary challenges that are not defined in the National Security Strategy, and definitely exist. We've been witnessing events in Paris since a few weeks ago. I think in a more serious way we should access the analysis of these so-called. non-war, or asymmetric threats. It's one of the things that, unfortunately, in your changes and additions is not precise. So, if we say that these laws treat military and non-war threats, i.e. asymmetric threats, the question arises who will adopt strategies on combating terrorism, who makes drafts, and who adopts, the fight against organised crime or corruption, given that this also belongs to the so-called "Corruption". asymmetric threats, or non-war threats, if we know that the National Defence Strategy worked by the Ministry of Defence and it is adopted by the Serbian Parliament? Also, there is one thing that is not well, according to us, done, and it concerns a situation in which, under Article 2(4), the defence of the Republic of Serbia is conducted independently or in co-operation with other countries within the national security system institution. Why am I saying that this is not appropriate, or why do I think that time has shown that this has to be done much more seriously? Well, simply, we had a situation last year, during May, a catastrophic situation caused by weather troubles, but also a disastrously bad situation in coordinating all the elements of the system that should function within the state of emergency. Unfortunately, we had a situation that the supreme, to say, not the commander, but the operational commander of our army, the Chief of General Staff is in command of the protection of one city or one bed, which can't be the case, never in the world has ever been the case, because the question is who commanded the defense in some other municipalities and cities, and which is why we came to the situation that we have only one general who is worthy, and I don't think that's true, that he is in command of defence in such a situation. What I think is not adequately proposed, the question arises as to who prescribes the Serbian Army's readiness measures and who prescribes the way and procedure of implementing the Serbian Army's mobilization. It's something that's missing from the law that's still in force and that needs to be changed. The question is also raised – which is why a special accent is put on financial business, i.e. financial service and material finance business, so it is unclear why the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence states that the Ministry is doing tasks relating to education and organising only financial services. What about the other departments? Which is why only financial services are derived from the context and why they are given primate and why there are no other services, such as technical, intelligent, or I don't already know which. Also, the legislator, i.e. the amendment, predicted that the organisation, improvement and information system in the area of material and financial operations would be potential. The question arises – and what about other information systems? So there are information systems concerning military health, the famous KAIS for military personnel, the Vojevir for mandatory defence, General Lackovic knows it well. Why does this law not only improve these information systems, but only material-financed business, and is that an impact in fact some particular parts of the defence system that are interested in finance and material business, this others ignore? Because we had the opportunity to hear on the Defence and Security Committee that essence and the most important thing is financial business in the defense system. I would understand that in a situation where these finances work in an adequate way, I would understand that in a situation where we don't have a budget reduction, in which we don't have a wage reduction for all the people who are sitting next to you right now, especially for officers, wages are cut for the first time by not knowing when in the defense system. I know you're bragging about something that's really a big success, that after two rebalancings you have a 99% budget. I have to say that when we adopt the rebalance of the rebalancing, and again you have no 100% execution, then it's really more than degutant to brag about it. However, I think there are a number of other things that we need to stress, and we, as the Democratic Party, will support this law if, I stress, there is a adoption of our amendments. Our amendments concern several issues, some fifteen or a little more amendments. First of all, I want to say that I am in part supporting my colleague Đurisic – the issue of the military air force is probably the issue of the emotions that our officers have been carrying from a long time ago. It's not a question of Serbian tradition, because then we'd go to the Royal Air Force, etc. The question is, if we had a Navy, then why don't the fleet be a war fleet, if we already have that kind of emotion? And the question is, if we know we have a war army, or a peacetime army, which part of the army is that war, why don't we have a war army? So that's something I think could have been done in some other way. It's no problem for you to modernise the system and establish a new tradition. They could have been Air Force, as they exist somewhere in the world, etc. On the other hand, in Article 5, you introduce one thing, which, frankly, experts I have talked to consider unconstitutional, which is, to put it very simply, forbidden professional members of the Serbian Army membership in political organisations. When I say "professional members of the Serbian Army", we don't mean officers, officers and soldiers, but military deputies, who now, practically, as civilians working in the defence system, are discriminated against by other parts of Serbia's citizens, and are discriminated especially against the state officials who work with the Ministry of Defence who are often in the same office, who, by law, can be members of political organisations, and they can't. We think it's in dissent with the Constitution, and I think it was much better defined in the past law, or a professional military person can't be a member of any party, nor can he perform political agitation, and that's something that, in our opinion, was appropriate. You're reintroducing naval acts in one species that is no longer a sight, which is a brigade, thanks to the work of pontony units from the mainland army, I think it's completely dysfunctional. At the same time, we know that the rank of a senior officer does not exist in these naval acts. I think it's something that's absurd because I don't know what positions past the river flotillas are going to be assigned acts, i.e. what positions in the ministry or general staff will be given the rank of Admiral, Vice, Rear Admiral or Commodore. It's something that, according to us, should remain as it is and I don't think that's modernization. On the contrary, I don't think it contributes practically to anything. What the question is, is, in Article 6, a colleague who is a law professor, I am sorry she didn't notice it, so here is the possibility that military police, due to disciplinary responsibility, will be able to bring in a professional member of Serbia's Army. I quote "driving." First of all, I don't know what legal-terminological it means. Secondly, I'm curious -- where did you see that because of discipline, it applies anywhere, in any law, someone brings, brings, arrests or arrests? So, if the chairman of Becic makes a disciplinary mistake here, or I, we are warned, punishment is imposed, but no one brings us in, brings us in or something like that. And how will that be? Will it look like this communal, as we saw yesterday in Belgrade, when handcuffs are placed on an officer who comes to a process that is disciplinary and which can be conducted without his presence and to give the measure without his presence? So, I don't think those officers, I suppose, who wrote this bill, the amendments and the additions, have adequately considered this matter and I think that this article should be deleted. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I would like to appeal to you to have the understanding that the defence system is being modernised for a long period of time and that it is time for the people who run the Ministry, specifically you, and part of Parliament to be modernised. You know, when an MP in the Serbian Parliament notes that we've given up the tank T-55, I expect you, as an expert, to be here for six months now, to say that we haven't given it up, but time has run over that tank T-55, as has been run over by some other cars or other means, that it's no longer used here as an excuse for ignorance, because you're the one who needs to know. So we have even more than we need the 84 tanks, and we have in the remont reserve, and we have the T-55 tanks, which nobody wants to buy. So the question is, why are you keeping it quiet, and do you think that this is how you bring Parliament and those MPs who spoke here into the idea that someone was destroying it because it's a perspective weapon? You know, about, it'd be like using a cell phone that was made in 1991 in the 21st century in the second decade. Also, we heard one thing that caused the mockery of an officer sitting next to you, and I'm sorry that the fellow MP isn't here, which is that the Arrow-2M crashed 70 enemy aircraft. Then General Gordic would add that Kub brought down 150, not 220. So, we've destroyed more with Arrow-2M aircraft abroad than they've been brought down in all the wars that have been fought in the last 20 or 30 years. So, I expect you to react to that, not to laugh now, to tell the MP - I'm sorry, I understand your intensity and your idea, to talk about something you obviously know little about, but let me explain, no plane has been crashed with Arrow-2M, none. Isn't that right, Mr. General? Yeah, I know. Even though Drecun, on those shows, crashed those planes every day, but I don't think anybody's serious, it was more like a thought. On the issue of co-operation with the NGO sector, I think it's a good thing you've changed a member of the law that's changing. I think it's perfectly right that members of the defense system have the opportunity to participate in the work of the NGO sector, but I also think that it's a pretty superficial thing and that it should be done, if not otherwise by means of a sublegal act, to make it clear to everyone, not to be free will of any other minister whether or not it will be approved to participate in the work of some NGO. I think it's simply inappropriate for the military to have the freedom to decide for themselves, and I also think it's inappropriate that we don't have any concrete knowledge of how it's going to be decided, because it leads to the possibility that you, someone else, the third, abuses the fifth, say, for some of your particular interests of the military, so it allows them to take part somewhere, somewhere not to participate. I'm saying this to protect you too, Mr. Minister, but the whole system. I think it's one of the things to be precise. If this law does not specify the way to be precise, I expect it to be in clear sublaws. These amendments and additions to the Army Act, first of all, unfortunately, in certain members, will, through the amendments, also demonstrate to you, are in collapsing with the Emergency Act. So, unfortunately, the whole system has been put in a bad position in some part, and I think you should have initiated that compared to the Emergency Law, compared to the strategic elements in the Serbian Parliament, and that the whole system is being modernised, and not that we are coming into collage. I remind you that even the representatives of your party on the Committee on Defence and Security have spoken precisely about civil protection that is not incorporated in an adequate manner and which now has a certain dualism that is bad for the entire defence system. Thank you, Mr. Minister, if you can answer some questions I'd be happy to hear from you, if not, we'll have a chance to still have a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20734	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Bratislav Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20735	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's always a great pleasure to speak to you, Mr. Sutanovac. Especially you, I don't know why. It would be good if this law was passed before that affair, as you say. You're making an affair. I've already said that once, and I believe that my boss, Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, would say the same thing, I'm not asking for an apology for me and I don't expect an apology from who's making an artificial affair, but I expect an apology from you personally because you spent five years at the head of the Department of Defense. An apology, not to me, not to the Prime Minister, but to all the honorary officers of the VBA you spent five years with, getting paid for being in that place and you were supposed to go out and say, no, that's impossible what you're talking about. Someone just said, "Citizen's Protector's Report." And where's the report? What report is that? Have either of you seen him? Did we get it in the army as a report? Never. We've repeated it many times, we've absolutely adhered to the Constitution and the laws of this country, the rules of law in force. At the post of secretary of the ministry came a man who has been a senior military prosecutor for over 20 years, a type of lawyer. I know everything in the Serbian Army started with you, and military education and military health and everything else started with you. And thank you for making it, here, that I may now inherit you in this place, which we are talking about. You say – so you passed the law in 2009 that officers cannot participate in NGOs and parties. It's your law. We have now extended, expanded that no one in the Ministry of Defense can be a member of any political organisation. There's no reason we'd fall for that before the Constitutional Court. No one can be a member and a member of the Serbian Army to be a member of any political party just to avoid partying and parties to control Serbia's military. I explained a little before when participation in various centres, such as Euro-Atlantic, Evoro, Euroon, orientations and associations, why it has to go through the entire Serbian Army system so that someone can participate in the work of such NGOs. No part of this law has been passed without the consent of the Assembly Committees of the Republic of Serbia, none that is not in line with European regulations. You had a controversy with the secretary of state on the board, you, last time it comes to finance - why are we introducing, no, we're not taking down other parts of the ministry, but they've already introduced it, it's our obligation to introduce financial control through the system sectors, not just financial resolution. I don't want to get into controversy over rebalances and everything. No, because we covered the debts we had left before 2012 with that and part of that budget that Vladdon brought here, which you're talking funnyly about, is just subsidies to farmers over six billion that remained from the period before 2012. Yes, we've made farmers more money and better budgeting we can cover the subsidies you promised, and you didn't meet them and you didn't give them. As far as the Department of Defense is concerned, and I expect from you, you've been in this chair for five years, where I'm sitting, to tell you how much more money the military has won in 2015 than it has been six years ago. Here, you here and how much participation in GDP is now. One thing you're right, the curative differences, yes, but the dinar ones. We have over three billion more in 2015 because for the first time we separated the SoVO Fund from the Ministry of Defence budget. For the first time, it's an independent category, so far it's been in the overall budget. That's what I expect you to say. I understand that this is hard for you because these are good things for the Army of Serbia. I understand how difficult it is for you, and when someone says it, it needs to be lifted, it doesn't need a tank T54, it doesn't need much. I also know how difficult it is for you to return these names to the units. I can only read you one interview of the man who shot down the F117, which he recently gave. I'll read it to you later. And these are requests coming from the military, from the system. We also asked the system how she felt about it. How about retirement? About article 110 under the new law. How does he feel about joining a political party? We've asked the system for the first time and these officers here who, I'll agree with you, have been very hard to live because since 2008, you haven't raised their wages. You're not. Very hard, very hard, but they dedicated their lives to this uniform. Since they were fourteen years old, they've been in that uniform, ready to always put themselves for this coat of arms and this flag they wear on their uniform. One thing I also won't forgive you and I won't allow it. A little while ago, you insulted the Chief of Staff, what he's looking for in Capca. The Chief of Staff needs and needs and will always fight because it is his personal position, not only the commands he has received for every life, every citizen of Serbia, wherever and in whatever territory, no matter what danger he may be threatened. Which doesn't mean that reduction is the defence capacity of the country. I understand your personal animosities to the Chief of Staff. I understand the texts that go through certain newspapers, your yellow and I know about them, but the Chief of General Staff has been appointed in your time and you see for yourself that we are showing you that there is no party membership in those positions in Serbia's Army. There is no movement of the generals, because they are not for SNS, their characteristics, their knowledge and their quality are seen. As long as I'm the first among the equals, I'll always stop and protect them. You can insult me just before you insult me and that speaks of you, Mr. Sutanovac, not of me. So I tell you, I expect from you, and my question to you, can the VBA listen to anyone on its own? Do you mind? (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "Yes." He can't. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "Yes." )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20736	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20737	No comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20738	Mr. Bozovic, don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac, on what grounds? (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, can I have a word? The minister misread me, asked me to apologize, etc.) Do you think the conditions have been met for me to give you a replica? Mr. Markovic, take your word for it, Mr. Nikolic, and you're throwing... There's a drop of MPs, but he doesn't understand. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20739	Mr. Minister, this shouldn't be yours and my debate about who's a better minister, because there's no dilemma. Don't have a dilemma. There's an officer sitting in front of you, as far as I can see, a tier, and if, by any chance, the VBA has a cell phone machine for secret control of phone conversations, can he handle phone calls, and I'm telling you that he has that machine? I can only apologize to the citizens of Serbia for inheriting an orderly system, not you, but Mr. Vukic, who said it was the best system in the country and the fact, is that you have reason to be dissatisfied, because what your predecessors, Mr. Rodic and Vukic left you, is far worse and worse than they inherited, except that you do not see whose responsibility is there. The Ombudsman's report to be sent to the Department of Defense? Why would it be sent to the Department of Defense? Why should a report by the Ombudsman we have chosen in parliament be sent, the defence ministry is before parliament, a complete misunderstanding of the role of the minister, i.e. the Ombudsman. Mr. Minister, I wasn't talking about tank T54, because I don't know there's such a tank, that's what you just said, tank T54, you'll see it in stenographic notes. The second thing, you should know, in 2007, the system owed 2.7 billion dinars, that Mr. Vukic inherited a debt of zero. So, in those five, six years, the debt went down to zero with 2.7 billion dinars, which if the euro was 75, let's say the order of size or 35 or 40 million euros...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20740	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20741	Don't interrupt me in half a sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20742	I must warn you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20743	The third thing, when you talk about the level of the budget and compare it to GDP, it will certainly be bigger, because GDP is devastated under your authority, so in all areas... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20744	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20745	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we had one sentence – why would Mr. Protector of the Citizens have to deliver information to the Inspector General? The inspector general is, in order for the public to know that the citizens of Serbia would know, get a warrant to carry out the controls, say said in the media and where there is said to be certain evidence and only asked that if possible, I have this letter here and I will show it to the public of Serbia, to deliver these evidence that it could enter VBA control. So none of us wanted to, nor did he say that the Civilian's duty was to deliver any document, but since there are doubts, and there is no report, there is no act to prove it, the Inspector General asked, very kindly, as it should, that he could carry out the control of the work of the VBA. Now I'm going to remind you, since you reminded me that he can, since you say he can control, the device you're talking to me about, Mr. Sutanovac, and I'm always ready to bring in and the journalists' representatives bought it during your term of office and bought it for JO2, and that the VBA had no idea that it was bought, for the knowledge of it, and there is a neat documentation, they asked for that device to be brought along with the manufacturer, with all the mobile operators, the possibility of being able to. Who wanted to listen to Serbian citizens? Me or you? Who bought the device? Me or you? The device has been denied any communication and any listening to mobile phone that works on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and is responsible for Serbia's hard-core citizens. Just thanks to the people of the VBA, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20746	I thank Minister Gasic. Mr. Sutanovac, unfortunately, you can't get the word now, because Mrs. Gordana Komic reported after the injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20747	I would like to remind you that during the previous presentation of Minister Gasic, you have failed to apply members of the Rules of Procedure who oblige you to take care of the order at the session, Article 27, which implies that the rights of all participants at the sitting are the same and that, if, quite rightly, you warn the Members of Parliament not to address each other directly or each other and that they do not gain, that Minister Gasic is, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure in the same position as any other participant of this session and as any other MP, such as any Minister, such as any Prime Minister, such as the Prime Minister, such as those persons who would invite or the President of the Assembly to attend, and may attend, such as auditors, Citizens' Commissioner, Commissioner for Equality or any other person who addresses the National Assembly. I fully understand, if you have difficulty applying the Rules of Procedure to all the participants of the session, and that is why there is a right of the MP to report and to point out to you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, from the fact that the Rules of Procedure apply to Members of Parliament, and not to the Ministers, can be only common damages and nothing more, and I do not think that you are doing a favor by doing it, believing that he is not able to justify what he wants to say or that he considers that he can treat the MPs directly, which is not allowed by any other member of the People's Parliament. I would also ask you, since in the meantime, there have been attempts by some MPs to order me to put down the red book, that if you don't hear it, remind them that it can't, or to order it to be quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20748	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. You want to say now that Mr. Gasic threw as Mr. Markovic, Mr. Bozovic and Mr. Nikolic? I didn't notice the moment I warned Mr. Gasic was throwing away, so I don't understand what you were talking about. I see you don't need any further explanation. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (No) Thank you. The word has its people's MP, the head of the SNS parliamentary group... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I am mentioned by name and last name. ) Mr. Sutanovac, when you lead the congregation, you can determine, answer, take your word and do whatever you want to do. As chairman, I must respect the Rules of Procedure. At your presentation, and Mrs. Komic had the advantage, just because she reported to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic answered the line. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: on my exhibit? You don't understand anything, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Minister, at the replica, and Mr. Babic reported to your presentation. Mr. Minister has a right to the Rules of Procedure, and only then is Mr. Babic. In the meantime, Mrs. Comic, according to the Rules of Procedure, reported, and she, according to the Rules of Procedure, received her word. Now the word is received by Mr. Babic, because I estimated he had the right to reply, because you mentioned the party, you mentioned the party president and everything else. After that, when Mr. Babic is finished, I, as chairman, will assess whether you have the right to replicate Mr. Gasic's exposure. Here you go, Mr. Babic. Sign up again, so I can give you time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20749	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gasic, I am grateful to you for these explanations when and for what reasons are purchased and equipped with VBA listening systems, but it is symptomatic to report immediately to the Rules of Procedure and the reason why you should be silent, whenever the facts and truths are spoken about the Ministry of Defense, because, my God, ministers do not come to the Assembly or when they come to the Assembly they should not speak. As far as the launch is concerned, too many things have been said here to manipulate the public. The Manchester National Assembly, where he was elected, sends reports of work, of annual work. I'll remind those who deliberately overlooked something like that, that by 2013, every report by the 1992 National Assembly that came to the National Assembly had been only served to cramp in some archives. The former regime has not even discussed any report by the National Assembly. Was it not appropriate for him to say, or not, I don't know, or disrespect, or incomprehension? By 2013 no 1992 report had been discussed in the National Assembly. We have nothing to fear. We respect Simeon, whatever his name is, Sasa Jankovic, Zoran Babic, Bratislav Gasic or Dragan Sutanovac. We respect what it means in our society. I will remind you that in 2014 94% of all the suggestions of the Simeon state authorities at different levels, although there is no mechanism that would force them to do such a thing, accept suggestions and make changes in their work. Now, that's understanding the meaning of the Manchester, that's respect for the meaning of the Manchester, not what you've been doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20750	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20751	One more sentence, please. The fact that the Ministry of Defence was much better by 2012 seems to me to be like when Bojan Pajtic comes out and criticises his labour law, which he has passed, and does not bear the consequences and resigns as prime minister of the AP Vojvodina government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20752	The word has an authorised representative, Konstantin Arsenovic. Mr. Sutanovac, you've already got one line. The minister answered your line, so you have no more rights. In a positive context. [[I'm sorry, I was looking for a replica. Now I've been mentioned by Mr. Babic.)]] I'm sure it's not your name. He listed several last names and mentioned yours, but not in a negative context. I cannot put your last name in context and other last names, such as Mr. Gasic and others, in a negative context. Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: He mentioned the party president, and I am an authorised representative. ) The word has authorised representative Konstantin Arsenović, I already gave it to him, and you will get it afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20753	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, I have a desire first and foremost to express my satisfaction in the reputation and trust that the Army enjoys in our people. I congratulate you on that. Also, I would like to express my satisfaction at a professional parade and a self-absorbed campaign, related to removing extraordinary opportunities due to elemental disasters. There the army has shown that with its people, solving problems, above all, are the fateful problems of our citizens. When it comes to these two laws, at first I have to point out, it seems to me, and I feel as if in some way these two laws were being identified. What I'm saying is that the Defense Act is a roof law that regulates the obligations and tasks of all the structures of a country, including ours, and that the Military Act is governed by this law. In that sense, we should not identify these two laws. The military as a defence system or part of a defence system is the most important institution of the defence system and certainly deserves special attention in this sense, but it is very important that in the overall defence system we understand that other structures play a very important role in our society, from ordinary citizens, through working organizations, through other ministries, local self-government, etc. This law clearly shows what these are obligations and roles. When it comes to these amendments and the additions to the law, I think they were mostly necessary. Both of these laws aim to define both the offices of the tasks and the competences of all the entities in our society, clearly, each in its area and its jurisdiction, in order to achieve the ultimate goal, which is to deter the attacks and to counter voluntary and reluctant threats and to protect Serbia's independence and sovereignty. The defence of freedom and independence is the right and obligation of every citizen, and that is the lofty goal, unfortunately, very expensive, which is paid at certain times and lives, to what is most valuable to man. But when freedom is lost, then it is realized how valuable it is and very important to a nation. I believe both laws create legal assumptions that the defence system is organised, arranged and able to achieve its objectives. No law is so good that it can't be better or so bad that it can't be any worse, but the validity of every law depends primarily on us, on those who are obliged to implement them and to implement their intended obligations. From the preparations and training carried out, much will depend on the resilience of our defense system. Of course, the material factor is one of the essential preconditions for achieving these objectives. Unfortunately, we have to realize that in this present situation, at least 10 years ago, that factor has not gone hand in hand and hence we can have certain objections, or, rather speaking, I regret why we are not at this level or that level. But the objective situation is that, and we simply have to adapt, to do within the limits of what we have as much as we can to make the system work as possible. I have to tell you that the organization of every system is very important. I was impressed when our citizens responded to go and help solve the problems caused by the floods in Obrenovac, Šapac, etc. A large number of young people responded. I also have to tell you, knowing that it's a human gesture of all our citizens, but I've also had anxiety, and I've been afraid of the potential consequences, because who knows the system, knows it was a disorganized move after all. Fortunately, it all ended well, but if it had been, God forbid, some other consequences, then it would have been an extremely problematic question. I would like to point out in particular here, as did the minister, that this law gives special importance to military production. Military production as a system of every country is very important for the state. I think it's a good definition, not just because there's a certain independence in providing certain weapons and military equipment, but because it's one driving force for the overall development of the economy. It is, above all, well, the people who were in the military system earlier in Yugoslavia, which meant the production of weapons of military equipment, starting with tanks, artillery weapons, planes, etc. It was one driving force, and above all it affects the modernisation, adoption of new systems, new technologies, new knowledge, etc., so as many armies as the system and as necessary evil, let me say, since we live in the world as it is, that the problem of security, security and freedom is always under question. I'd be luckiest if we didn't have to have an army, that means we'd have an ideal civil society in the world at all. However, it is a necessary evil. That's why I think in this respect, when it's already the way it is, then we need to be aware that we need to bring our defense system to the level we want, which we want to ensure as much security as possible. In the end, we do so through the development of military production and the overall economy in our country. I could actually say and put an end to it here, but I do need to comment on some things in both law and law, for the simple reason that I think and want, they're well-intentioned, some of them I've given amendments, whether you accept them or not. What's more problematic for me, I'm going to say it in particular, but I just want to point out for the simple reason that in some future amendment and the addition of the law, we simply have that in mind. I think, first of all, that some of the definitions, first of all in the Defense Act, don't get me, but to use the word "horny, broad," are burdened by even unnecessary words, and I think they could have defined themselves much simpler. At the very least, they didn't have to be made up of one sentence. They could have been from two sentences. It's like the definition of a facility, a military warehouse, and so on. On the other hand, the issue of civil defense seems to me that civil defense has been given too much importance, or I see it that way. I have to tell you, I just don't see that civil defense can realize it, at least in the way I see it. So I'm just going to read part of this bill, for the simple reason that you have in mind, maybe I'm wrong, but it's said – the civil defence of the Republic of Serbia, which includes a set of measures and activities, etc., provides success... Be careful, it should ensure the successful functioning of state authorities, AP authorities, local self-government units, companies and other legal entities, protection and rescue, the provision of living and working conditions for citizens and meeting the need for emergency and military defence forces. I'm not sure, or you mean, if you mean civil defense as a total system, where both government and state authorities are involved, then fine. I see civil defense a little differently, as an organization that performs dedicated tasks in that previous system she had. Maybe that's why it's such a big misunderstanding. In any case, I cite it as a need to think. In a chapter defining the defence ministry's competences, in addition, it is provided for the Ministry of Defence to determine the training and management programme and the planning and implementation of plans for training of citizens through competent territorial authorities. And that's okay, I have no objection. However, what I lack, at least I have failed to make any provision regarding the training of the military, the military, the citizens. That's where you hinted, but what do I mean? I think it should, the army consists of a peace and war army. In one system, the military is taught in a special way, through various exercises, etc. I think it would be directed in one such indication that the obligation of the Ministry of Defence to organise, arrange, edit, etc. You know we've suspended military service. That's where it gets the trouble of recruiting military units in the first place. This voluntary service of the army, I don't think it's enough to fill the war units, and for how many years, we've been losing generations that are incapable of waging war. Train one artilleryman, one gunman, one tanker, etc. It is a process that requires not only time, requires and renews knowledge, etc. I think it would be good if in this - the defence minister's jurisdiction had been regulated. If you are aware of the 5th law, Articles 47 and 48 say that Serbian citizens have the right and obligation to carry out military and material obligations and that it is the right and duty of citizens to prepare and train for participation in defence, it is well defined. I have nothing against this definition. But I wonder what about these people who didn't serve the army? Where's their right? In what way will they fulfill their right and obligation? When it comes to the Army Act, I think it's Article 3, where the military's visions are defined, and Article 12 defines acts. We're predicting naval acts, and we don't have eyesight as a navy in the army. It doesn't make sense to me that you have acts in the military for a vision that doesn't exist. If you wanted to do that, then maybe that type of river unit should have been installed as a form of organization in the military. They don't show up anywhere, they don't show up in the Army Act, they don't show up on defense. Then, I have a remark, I think it's too high, in Article 4. In addition, the law on the army is said to be a member of the Serbian Army in service is required to act in accordance with the Constitution, the law, other regulations and acts of command under the rules of the profession, impartially and partyly neutrally. In my opinion, this word “partyly neutral ” is excessive, unnecessary. I just don't see any reason why we're making this possible. If we have arranged that members of the army cannot be party-organized, in addition, if it is obliged to comply with laws, norms, etc., then in itself, the logic is that it is party neutral. Is the occasion, by this present, that policy force this word to be inserted like this, probably the reason, but I think it's an extra word and that it should simply be left out. What I think will be a big problem, Mr. Minister, is Article 44, which regulates the retirement of officers and officers. I gave the amendment, though. I know that the way I gave it, it can't be accepted, I'm aware of that. I gave it more for a reason, and I will explain it in more detail, which is, compared to the provisions that you gave here with the provisions of the Retirement System Act, the opposite. And worst of all, Mr. Minister, we will have future pensioners, who are retired, in the situation that they will essentially be punished. I don't believe it. The Military Act and the Retirement Act must be harmonised, they must respect. I'm afraid the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which determines pensions, will not comply with the Military Act, because it is contrary. On the other hand, there's one serious problem. The law now extends the working age to 65 years. Those who leave earlier are now 60 years for professional military personnel, will have to be subject to criminal provisions, say, if they leave at 50 years, by 10 years, and by 0.34% a month. So, please, in order not to put this problem into a situation, I've had enough, believe me, ever since I've been in the Assembly, constantly defending the interests of military pensioners because of the various gaps that have been made in the previous system, I think I've even become boring, to see this article seriously. I'm aware he's responding to the army. All I'm saying is that future pensioners will have a problem and it has to be harmonised. In that sense, I ask you to make an effort and resolve this problem. In my opinion, it would be normal for you, Mr. Minister, to simply return the military pensioners to the previous system of the PIO Fund and then there will be no more problems, then the Law on the Army will be respected, there will be no disagreements, there will be no misunderstandings, etc. By the way, I have to tell you, there have been a lot of problems in the PIO Fund system when it comes to military pensioners. Since I've already mentioned military pensioners, Mr. Minister, I'm going to end this, I'm going to support, not just me, but the whole parliamentary group, both of these laws, but the situation has been imposed today, and I have to ask you, I've asked about that debt, you know that, but there's another problem. A group of people who organized and protested is now received...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20754	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20755	... by the secretary of state, but it bypasses the Association of Military Pensioners, as a legitimate body representing military pensioners. Please, in those conversations, I don't mind you seeing these people, but also including the Association of Military Pensioners. I have information that they've received a call, but even though they've been asked to be involved, no one's calling them. Please bear in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20756	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20757	Once again, let me say that we will uphold both of these laws and I want you to preserve this reputation that the army has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20758	The word has a minister in the government, Mr. Bratislav Gasic. How come I didn't get the word? Mr. Sutanovac, please wait. The minister has an advantage. You'll get your word when the minister's finished. (National MP Dragan Sutanovac throws out of place. Mr. Sutanovac, read a little Rules of Procedure, I've already asked you to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20759	Mr. Arsenović, I thank you for your kind words. Few people know that you are retired general of the Serbian Army and that's why you treat this law this way and thank you for that. When it comes to acts, you know that in time, the Serbian Army had to accept NATO standards and introduce advances in service and all acts according to NATO standards. It was then that we had the rank of Brigadier General, General Major, Lieutenant General, and then we went back to the General, which is General Dikovic today. We took down the colonel general. We took down a general of the army, which should be normal, but some of the others didn't, and we accepted that. You know we've lost the rank of first class captain. When it comes to the river fleet, we have a lot of officers who have finished the military naval academy, and we need a career to lead, because they need to move forward with their rank at some point, and that's why we're introducing this category and these acts, because these people have the right to do so. We can't just stop their progress. I have to be honest with you, and you know it well, many people don't like what you said. Many do not like it, and therefore attacks on Serbia's Army and the Ministry of Defence go as they go, which is why the Serbian Army began to raise its head, because certain circles had orders to destroy Serbia's army, to make it civil protection by 2016, so individuals flew on aircraft on aircraft, to get tasks, without the knowledge of ambassadors, without the knowledge of the military envoy, without the knowledge of the escorts, because they needed to destroy Serbia's military. That's why the attacks go after the VBA and everyone else. There were attacks over the military parade, because they thought it was all over, that it was all destroyed. When you ask a question for military pensioners, you know it's not the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction, but we wanted to help, and these are the members of the Serbian Army, and we are talking about them today with maximum respect, as if they were part of our system. You know we've had meetings with all military associations, and especially with an association that hasn't been formally registered yet, they don't have their representatives, but they come once, the second time, where we've asked them to organise themselves and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the prime minister has ordered that a working group be formed by the finance minister, the minister of labour and social policy and someone from the Ministry of Defence, whether I or the Secretary of State, and that we have meetings with them all the time to find a solution, because it takes a very long time and it's huge money, and I'm going to tell you that 50% of these funds, and that's over 20 billion at this point, with 40,000 lawsuit requests, goes to court costs and legal services. Of course, some answer to take that kind of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget and, of course, will always warm up that story. Whether it will come to our pensioners, we would first want to get to them and they would be more pleased that someone had promised them at some point, and he did not keep and did not implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20760	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. (Constantin Arsenović, from the post: Minister mentioned me. Mr. Arsenović, you have no chance of a replica. Here, I'll give you my word just to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20761	Mr. Minister, I don't have a replica, but you just didn't answer my question. When it comes to meetings with the Association of Pensioners, I have asked you to include the Association in these meetings, in these talks. That's not on right now. It's just a supplement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20762	I thank Mr. Arsenovic. I turned on the microphone just to hear what you're saying, because I can't hear you, you're far away. Here you are, Mr. Sutanovac, a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure, the party's president has been mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20763	Mr. Becic, if you'll excuse me, I've been looking for a replica and a minister. He mentioned me by name and last name, Mr. Babic mentioned the party. I ask you, since you seem unaware, we have over 20 amendments, that it may last indefinitely, if this is how you conduct the session and comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20764	Are you threatening me, Mr. Shutanovac?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20765	No, I asked you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20766	Mr. Sutanovac, you may also have 520 amendments. You cannot threaten the chairman of the National Assembly. That's why I'm giving you a warning, Mr. Sutanovac. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20767	Excuse me, why did you give me a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20768	Because of the threat you referred to the chairman of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20769	What sentence did I threaten you with?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20770	In a sentence that you have 20 amendments and that you will block the session of the Assembly if we continue to lead in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20771	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20772	It's true, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20773	We can see it in a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20774	If you say it's not true, then I'm withdrawing my notice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20775	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20776	That's right, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20777	We can take a look at the stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20778	We won't convince Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20779	I can see there's a lot of anxiety. You've taken all my time now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20780	You have the right to a replica. You've won Mr. Babic's presentation. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20781	This is where I was asked to apologize to the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army, General Dikovic. I can apologize to him for the rank of both the apartment and the promotion, but no one humiliated him like, at the time, the Serbian government who set him up to defend a rash in a Serbian town, and at the same time the question arises – who defended Obrenovac, Palanka, Svilajnac, etc.? The fact is, Mr. Minister, that the procurement was done at some point in my time, started before me, but today at the Department of Defense with a set of stories about purchases. You know, they talk once upon a time, we used to get something, because if it's not like that, tell me, what's been purchased since 2012, and what's actually been shown more recently in the parade since 2012. Here, you have a chance. One more thing, Mr. Arsenović, I'm sorry you came out, and I'd like to congratulate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20782	Mr. Sutanovac, you didn't get a line on Mr. Arsenović's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20783	I've only got 15 seconds left to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20784	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20785	So, I would like to congratulate the Serbian Army on its reputation. In my day you were the most respected institution in the Republic of Serbia, today you are the fourth. First, they say, the prime minister, so the government and that poor government, so the Serbian Orthodox Church, so the Serbian Army, and that's what the defence minister says, is proud of that. It's something you all need to worry about together.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20786	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20787	I apologize to the Honorable Chairman, Article 107. - insulting the dignity of Parliament and the entire people. Where does someone get the right to humiliate a whole nation in this way if they trust someone? If the people say they trust the prime minister the most, then I'm sorry, that's the right of that people. Whether they will believe in the army, it is again the right of that people, but in such a way, it is offensive to the entire people, it is truly scandalous and you were obliged to warn the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20788	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. You're right, but I didn't want to give you another warning, so we have time. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20789	The replica of the replica, although the previous speaker, and I don't mean Mr. Djukanovic, won a replica of mine and what I said, in no single word, did he not answer us when Bojan Pajtic resigned from all those criticisms he had made to his Labour Act, which is non-European, non-civilisational, against employees in Serbia, which allowed 400,000 people, between 2008 and 2012, to be out of work? When he was going to carry out the conconsequences of the same ones he asked for, because he thought it was about the new Labour Act for which we received support, not only the International Community, but also the people in Serbia, because the unemployment rate finally stopped, but also decreased. What bothered me, which is that someone was belittled, and in those days and hours, as well as thousands and thousands, members of the Serbian Army, as well as thousands of volunteers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I was alone with Mr. Dikovic, on the walls of Sapca, and it is not one bed. These are the plights of both silos and Cevrentia, where Serbian military members defended and defended a large city in Serbia, defended the walls of 25km long, and indeed there were no members of the Serbian Army at that time, that there was no firm commanding hand of Mr. Dikovic, I am not sure, with such authority of the town of Sapac and the unpreparedness of local self-government, which would have been from Capca. It is an honor to defend, not only those plights, to defend the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the lives of the citizens of Sapac, and to congratulate both members of the Serbian Army and Mr. Dikovic himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20790	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Professor Dr. Janko Veselinović, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20791	Yes, Your Honored Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure of Rule 106, which clearly states - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Mr. Babic is half...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20792	Mr. Veselinović will continue, but only, do you know on what basis Mr. Babic answered? So, he wasn't speaking in the agenda, he was speaking in replication of Mr. Sutanovec's exposure. You can at least say something in the replica, Mr. Veselinovic. Go on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20793	Mr. Chairman, so Article 106 is very clear. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. This guy's replica wouldn't come up with speakers talking about the agenda point being discussed. When we from the opposition say and explain our proposals, amendments, etc. You warn us, fine us, take away our word, and do so regularly, and there are no MPs who have been warned or fined in this sitting since you are the chairman, and every day you punish the MPs of the opposition, and there is no less insult on this side, or we move within the Rules of Procedure, they do not move. What does the government of Vojvodina have to do with the percentage now, and I don't know what the previous speaker was talking about with the Serbian Army? We'll see, when I speak today, when I explain my part of the exhibit, will you allow me to speak and explain in the way I think of my views.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20794	Mr. Veselinović, I know yours and I see your need to defend the government of Vojvodina, and I also don't know what that has to do with you, the government of Vojvodina, but well, you have the right to defend the government of Vojvodina. But now you challenge the MP that in the replica, what you have asked for many times for you, you challenge the MP to say in the replica what he thinks is wrong, that he is mentioned, that he is mentioned in a negative context, you are now contesting the MP's position, just because he is an MP of the position. Surely you will also have the opportunity and the right to have the right to reply, to speak and to explain why you have applied for the line, and it is normal in what you say that the discussion on the agenda has to discuss the agenda, but Mr Babic did not speak about the agenda but was given the right to reply. So I don't understand your calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you also used as some kind of replica. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. How did I do the injury again, explaining to you why I didn’t feel that I had hurt? (Janko Veselinović, from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't play with the Assembly like this, Mr. Veselinović. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20795	I'm sorry you didn't give a word to Ambassador Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20796	Ms. Papuga, I only respect the Rules of Procedure and there is no possibility that, based on the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman, someone will again be called to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20797	Okay. It's your right. The Honorable Chairman, the exiting minister, representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs, today when we are discussing the topic of the Army, it is important to stress that the future of the Serbian state and its armies should be put into shape by the new world reality that surrounds us, and all in line with the country's definitions. According to the Social Democrats' League MPs, Serbia's military neutrality, although it also sounds nice to say positively about the idea by a large number of Serbian and Serbian citizens, is not sustainable. Mostly for economic reasons. In order for Serbia to be militaryly neutral, the budget allocated to the military would have to be dramatically higher, and that is not possible in this situation. A sufficient number of armed soldiers, all the tribes of the army in full composition, and with all the necessary equipment cost a lot more than we can pay at this time. Take, for example, the problems we have regarding the financing of our air force. By including Serbia in some military alliance, the efficiency of our army would increase and costs would be reduced. It is already a question for another debate and for making a political decision -- whether Serbia should approach NATO and how. Last year, we all witnessed that during the period when the elementary disasters hit Serbia, the military proved to be the most stable and vital part of society, whose role was irreplaceable in situations that required a special type of knowledge and skills when it was necessary to help citizens. Of course, we also saw certain shortcomings and chaos in the organization and realization on the ground. Thus, these proposed amendments and additions to the Military Law represent a logical set of events to improve this security sector, thus putting a requirement to edit this area by modern and stable society at the top of the criteria for NATO and EU accession. In my presentation, I will specifically refer to those amendments in the Military Law, which should be implemented in the near future through greater operationality and overall organisational readiness and the Serbian Army's readiness. Especially given the new security risks. In addition to the amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army, it is possible to function better and carry out its tasks, some of the newspapers that should bring this legal solution are military legislation and how it would look and what it would contain - the possibility of working abroad, commanding and after the expiry of the professional service, and the work in dangerous places is accurate. The paper is that there will be no more need to pass professional tests to work in the military service, but will be sufficient to pass a state exam. I would especially refer to article 35. Proposal for a bill, which proposes to amend Articles 75, 2nd and 3rd, which will for the first time legally define the work of members of the Army during pregnancy and during the maternity period. This amendment, above all, has conditioned the need to comply with the provisions of the general rules on work and is explicitly stated which persons are not relieved of duties, and in order to protect a professional military person during pregnancy, maternity leave, child care or special care of the child. The change predicts that members of the army will not be relieved of their duties, but that their function will be frozen during their absence. This segment is of paramount importance and equal participation of women and men in public and political life is one of the conditions of democracy. With this amendment, the legislator has equated the position of women and men in the military, as well as the possibility of their equal career progress. The fact is even more important if 19.5% of women are represented by the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. Although this percentage is individually viewed, still well below European standards, however, the paper in the law encourages women to opt for jobs in this area that were traditionally considered male affairs. We would like to welcome the amendment brought by Article 5. Proposal for a law imposing an amendment in Article 14(2). The change says that the ban on political parties applies to all professional members of the RS Army, both professional military persons and civilian persons in the Service of the Army. This is a good way to depolitize the Army. The military as a state body has responsibility only to the state and as such must be neutral to the political and political people in state functions. In the Army, expertise must be above individual and personal interests. The military profession must be autonomous compared to political developments in society. The draft law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, adopts reforms of the defence system which constitute a complex business that provides for an inseparable part of the reform of the entire society. To date, a lot of work has been done to improve the entire security sector in RS. As a result, I can conclude that these amendments and additions to the Law on Defence of Reform are not at the very beginning, but are an upgrade and extension of already existing normative acts and that is good. Amendments to the Law on Defence regulates the defence system of Serbia, the jurisdiction of state authorities and the Serbian Army in defence, rights and duties of state authorities, autonomous provinces, units of local self-government, citizens, companies and other legal entities. The most important newspaper concerns the organisation of the military's defence in order to protect the assets of the Serbian Army. Article 107a says military defence is a special organisation of the defence ministry that takes legal action and legal means to achieve and protect property rights and the interests of the RS. Furthermore, Article 17 b clarifies more precisely the powers of the military defence. Many countries have a special military judiciary. However, there is no military defence as a special authority to represent the state before the court in private legal relations stemming from the work of military state authorities. In America where a highly developed military judiciary with special military courts and prosecutors, i.e. military judicial services, is represented by the state before courts and other competent bodies in all legal relations, including the relationship with the work of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces is carried out exclusively by the State's Attorney General. This military judicial service in the area of private legal relations has been authorised only to conclude outside judicial alignment, while the state's representation before the court is strictly reserved for the state's defence. In Italy, which also has a long tradition of the military judiciary on special military prosecutors and courts, there is no military defence, but the state's representation and relations with the defence ministry and the military also performs the state's defence. Among the commendable provisions in the amendments to the Defence Act, the strengthening of the defence inspectorate as an internal control mechanism is also set out. In particular, it is worth the attention of introducing an explicit obligation to monitor material and financial operations, as well as of the dedicated and legal use of the resources of users in the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, which so far has been the case only indirectly. It is important to stress that as part of inspection supervision, it is also envisaged that general and individual acts, records and other documentation should be reviewed, then business premises, facilities, facilities, arrangements, etc. The powers shall be further extended to the possibility of taking statements and, where appropriate, written statements from the managers and competent officials. By amending the law, inspectors and authorized persons would also have the right to set an appropriate deadline for the submission of data reports and acts and other documentation. A new Article 17 is introduced, which highlights independence in the work of inspectors and inspectors and authorised persons within the limits established by law and other regulations. In addition, the Defence Inspectorate shall report on the occurrences of a significant violation of independence and illegal influence on the radio spectrum and other persons authorised for the tasks of inspectors' supervision. The Social Democrats' face supports amendments relating to Article 14. In 2009, as early as the adoption of the amendments and additions to the Military Act, a failure was made where a new member of the 14th said – a professional member of the Serbian Army is not allowed to participate in the activities of the association that achieves the following objectives – reform of the education system and the military, harmonisation of the rules, etc. This position of the legislator was not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where a member of 141 says that the Serbian Army is under democratic control, further, adopted by Article 14, and was not in synergy with the Law on the Serbian Army, which states that democratic and civilian control of the Serbian Army is being carried out by the National Assembly, the Civilian Protector and other state authorities in accordance with their respective competences and citizens and the public, as well as the 14 members, and it is clear in this case that the military control by the citizens has failed. Now, with this amendment and the addition of the Law, this member has somewhat eased the involvement of professional soldiers with civil society organisations, which deal directly or indirectly with defence and security issues, as well as with associations dealing with European integration. The legislator now says that a professional soldier of the Serbian Army can, with the previous consent of the defence minister, be granted participation in civil society meetings dealing with security issues, but also at association meetings dealing with European integration. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina will support these changes and additions if we accept the amendments we have made to these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20798	Thank you, Miss Papua. The word has an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, MP Vanja Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20799	Thank you. Dear President, State Secretary Mr. Djordjevic, the honored guests of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are present today, before us, the MPs, today, two extremely important laws, i.e. amendments and additions to the laws forming a system of national security in the country. These are the draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Defence, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Army. It can be concluded from these two draft laws that the government and the Ministry of Defence want, based on analysis and monitoring of the situation and the current application of the law and the perceived problems in the implementation of the defence plan, to address shortcomings, to resolve legal problems, to eliminate legal gaps. Although at the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs itself, as well as in the present part of the session, there have been questions that are not related to these points of the agenda, or these laws that are on the agenda today, my discussion will be focused solely on the essences of the amendments and the addition of these two acts. Analyzing all changes along with people who are expert in these areas, with people who deal with national security, professors, analysts, former military elders, the SPS Parliamentary Group has decided to fully support both of these proposals in the voting day, together with amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence in a different, more complete way defines the most important concepts in the national security system. First of all, we have a new definition of the defense system, then military defenses and civil defenses. New concepts have also been introduced which have not been defined by law, which are important for the functioning of the defence system of the state, which are military facilities and military warehouses. The law provides for a long-term plan for the development of the defence system, as well as for the current law, but this law regulates both the medium-term plan and the programme and the development of the defence system, which has not been regulated by the existing law. The law regulates and defines some low-level documents that have not been defined by law, possibly by some other acts, which are doctrined low-level documents that are passed at the operational level of command, based on the Serbian Army doctrine. Article 2 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act introduces another, in my opinion, extremely important and significant concept, i.e. document, which is a standard of defence of the Republic of Serbia, which defines the specific needs of defence and which contains, as it states in this article, technical specifications or criteria which ensure that materials, products, processes or services meet the purposes. For a moment he would stay with this member and ask Mr. Minister – has this area been regulated so far, how has it been regulated? If it has not been regulated, does this mean that there were materials, products, services that did not correspond to purpose? Does this mean that taxpayers' money was spent on something that was not necessary, or does that mean that there was abuse? We know that some cases ended in court. Another question goes through my head, which is -- if we had this provision in the law earlier, would it happen that the Serbian Army is renting satellites, and, figuratively speaking, there is no satellite antenna at that point? In this sense, I would like to mention and commend another segment, which is a newspaper in the Law on the Budgetary System, which is extremely important and related to this topic requiring the introduction of a financial service and thus has been resolved by many of the many affairs that existed in the past, i.e. in 2012, such as "Tales", "Tadiran" and "Megalink". Also, this law extends some of the powers of the President of the Republic, then the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law also extends the powers of the Ministry of Defence and in a different way is defined and systematised. I would mention, like the other MPs, inspection surveillance in the area of defence that has been modestly regulated so far. This law extends new powers to the Ministry of Defence, allowing the inspector to work more quality and control the implementation of law enforcement and other acts that are important for Serbia's defence and military. The bill introduces a new Article 17a which provides for independence in the work of authorised inspectors or other authorised persons, which has not existed in the current law. An important law in Article 21 provides for air traffic management for defence purposes, but not for internal waterways, so this bill was regulated by that area. As Serbia has several international waterways, regulation of the area raises the level of national security to one higher level. I would particularly point out the introduction of a new member of 23a, which introduces records of the victims and missing persons in armed conflicts and thus completes the archives of the Ministry of Defence, as these data are kept permanently. I have to admit, that's my opinion, that the only defense ministry is that it can collect this information in one place, because it's the only one I think it owns entirely. I believe it is our duty to the persons who have suffered in these areas in the last wars, so in the areas of the former SFRY. I would also mention a new chapter, chapter 9a of this bill, which introduces military defence as a special organisational unit of the Ministry of Defence, which includes legal actions, legal means, in order to achieve and protect the property rights and interests of the Republic of Serbia in terms of funds used by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. I believe this solution is more effective, more economical in protecting the ministry's assets and interests by the ministry itself, which is the possibility of host management of the ministry. At the end of the discussion on this law, I would like to point out as a good solution that the activities of the logistics support of the Republic of Serbia military provide for the possibility for certain military institutions to acquire legal personality status, which would work for the needs of the defence system and the military, and in the part of the free capacity market, thus ensuring a significant disbursement of budget costs for financing the beneficiaries of the budget that can operate on the market. When it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Army, it is good that the organisation of the Serbian Army is more clearly specified, as well as the competences of certain organisational units. This is how Article 3 is done. The Serbian Army's bill according to structure shares visions, genders and services, and generations and services on species and specialities. In addition, a significant change is the return of the name "war air", which continues tradition and returns full importance to this kind of army, which has great importance in defending the airspace of each and every country. Then, more specifically, a specific military service and service under difficult conditions are defined. In addition to a general provision defining a specific military service, which is regulated by the existing law, these include specific services, which are air, parachute and diving services in Serbia's military. The Minister of Defence remains in this Law that determines jobs, jobs and formations in the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, which carry out a specific military service, i.e. a service under difficult conditions, but this time, which is a change in this Act, with the consent of the Government. One significant change refers to Article 14a, which almost all MPs mentioned here, and represents a major step forward when it comes to the involvement of professional soldiers in the activities of individual associations. The law improves co-operation in the civil sector through the possibility of enabling professional soldiers to participate in non-governmental organisations' programmes, with the prior consent of the minister. By erasing the words "not allowed", which are deleted by these laws, this article represents a step in the democratisation of society. When the words "not allowed" are deleted wherever they are, this represents significant progress in the democratisation of a society. Then, the proposal for the Military Act introduces new acts in river units, which are: a lieutenant, a corvette lieutenant, a regatta lieutenant, a corvette captain, a frigate captain, a captain of a military ship, a commodore, a counter-admiral, a vice-admiral and an admiral. In this way, it is given to the importance of members of a part of the army who may have been neglected in the past, and they are significant because of the specificity of the service they perform. The Vojsca bill allows for keeping records of professional military persons and persons serving in the Serbian Army, in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. This law systematics what data the military can collect, guard and use. Then, in a much more detailed way than so far, Article 51, which refers to military legitimacy, has been defined. It is arranged who has the right to military identification, its appearance, the way of application, as well as the data that these IDs may contain. I would point out as a good solution that legitimacy will also be made by the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. the Institute for the Making of Coins and Coins. Why is that good? First of all, because this institution is in charge of making personal documents of citizens, passports, ID cards, traffic and driver's licenses and, as I always say, no counterfeits of these documents have been recorded so far, so I suppose there will be no falsifications for military purposes, which raises the level of security of these documents to the highest level. Also, I would like to point out Article 30, which changes Article 66, where the military mention of the medals and military monuments of officers is also produced by the National Bank of Serbia, i.e. the Institute for the Making of Coins and Coins. That's extremely significant, because I think the officers deserve to have those medals for a long time. For us Socialists, or for the Socialist Party of Serbia, it is particularly important to have a provision that regulates the status of spouses of a relocated officer, i.e. a sub-officer whose employment relationship has ceased due to the transfer of spouses. It is foreseen that in the event of interruption of a working relationship to indefinitely the spouse has the right to pension and disability insurance, as well as the compensation of the assembly of termination of employment. In the end, I would also welcome a new solution that does not relieve a professional person, in the case of pregnancy or maternity leave, child care or special care of a child, and has all the rights provided for by the Labour Act. This is another step forward when it comes to gender equality in the defence system. In this regard, I would also mention Article 112, where the same provision is applied to persons who have contracted a working relationship for a certain period of time, which provides for the extension of the contract until the expiry of the right to leave during pregnancy and maternity leave. Noting that the two draft laws will also be discussed by my fellow MPs, members of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, once again as the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, would stress that we in the voting day will fully support these two draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law, as well as amendments submitted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20800	Thank you, Mr. Vukic. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go, Mr. Gas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20801	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Vukic, the existing law so far has not defined SORS, the Standard of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, but has been in practice applying the documents created in a previous period, which is JNA, which was called the National Defence Standards, and so now we define for the first time. As for the specific technical military regulations that you were just talking about, there was no, I can't be dishonest, abuse in the previous period, but now we're just defining and regulating legally how it should be, that it doesn't have to be a wider spectrum, as it used to be. As for the making of the legislation that goes to the National Bank, of course it's the safest way, but I would keep my right when the opposition MPs are here to answer you for the medal and for the rest, why is that given to the National Bank? Exactly because of these abuses that were in the previous period. Please let me answer your question afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20802	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20803	Thank you, Your Honor. Before I begin to expose the law itself, I must say that today the minister here has told us a frightening fact, which is that someone had previously purchased a listening system for the Military Security Agency, and no one seemed to have any idea. I didn't even notice that the Citizens' Protector ever said anything about it, like he's trying to do a lot today. I am pleased that you, Minister, have said that this system has been removed and is not being used, which is good, but I can suspect that someone then in the earlier period and how they used that system to listen to citizens, and yet I say, "The Guardian of Citizens didn't even say that then." What concerns me here, and here I agree with you, Mr. Minister, today's attacks on the Military Security Agency, above all, and therefore to the Ministry of Defence itself and the Army in general, are to be calculated deeply to degrade the military as an institution, in which the people believe. Because, you know, if you spill information like that somewhere that VBA is listening to unions, then people are wondering -- wait, we live here in the military junta? What's this about? Is someone doing this on purpose, without any single evidence spilling that information, and then we have to argue about it? It's usually done, I think, because the VBA has just begun to do its job in this country and to protect intelligence and counterintelligence in this country, and above all, the military. I have some things to congratulate them on. Since I'm also a member of the Security Control Committee, we have a chance to get some of their reports, but these are things that aren't for the public. I congratulate them on their work. Just keep them moving on, and these attacks can only strengthen them. As far as the laws are concerned, and I must congratulate you, because you see as the Ministry of Global Movement and thus define the defence system and the defence of the Republic of Serbia at all, it is far different from how it has been defined so far. It seems very important to me that you point out that the Serbian Army is serving to protect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia, or the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, which we have not had in the Law of Defence so far. Why? Well, you know, and last night something happened that changes both the world and Europe a lot, whether we want to admit it or not. In one of our friendly states, there has been a rather strong change and we have to take care of it. We can't be blind and silent about what's happening right now in the whole world, and the fact is that all the countries are doing more and more to protect themselves, rather than doing so much for that kind of global protection. If we're going to be a whole army, as was the case so far, to narrow down to fight terrorism, I think it's very wrong. Of course she has to get involved in that fight, but, excuse me, she has to protect herself above all this country, which is what we're paying for. I think this definition of the defence system that you have given here, and in general the defence of the Republic of Serbia, is something that is a major improvement in the law itself. Also, it's a very important thing that you've defined who the subjects of defense are. It's a very important thing, because we haven't had it precisely defined so far. Defence system entities are primarily citizens, state authorities, autonomous province authorities, local self-government bodies, companies, which is very important, other legal persons, entrepreneurs and the Serbian Army. So the whole state is in a system of protecting territorial integrity and everything you've listed here, which is very important. What I'm interested in here seems to me that the military defense itself is much better defined than in the earlier period, where we saw that it was all somehow a global fight against terrorism, and today the military defense, as you have defined here, is part of the defence of the Republic of Serbia, which includes a set of measures and activities aimed at preparing for the defence and defence of the Republic of Serbia through the use of the Serbian Army. So the point is to protect the state first. That's what's important. But as far as civil defense is concerned, it's very nice that this is in the law and I support it absolutely. But to do this, you have to have some basic training for citizens, especially while they're at school. I'm talking about kids who go to elementary school or high school. I'm curious to know if it's planned, since I see the possibility of the Ministry of Defense being given here, i.e. You as a minister, to question how civil defenses will take place in the future, how it will be expressed, or whether this case may be introduced in schools, as alternative or whatever. I think our students should still go through initial civil defense training, if we even define citizens as people who are subject to the defense system. So they still have to have some elemental knowledge. After all, we saw that it was necessary through these floods, where there really wasn't an army, the question is to organize ourselves. I can only congratulate the Serbian Army for helping the people and thank General Dikovic and for his commanding in Sapac and all the people who have, of course, responded, but in order to be organized, I think it would really have to go through some kind of training. Also, I need to highlight the doctrine that you have prescribed here, the Serbian Army doctrine and all these lower documents. Why? Because we haven't had any planning until now. Actually, we did, but that was really bad, in the military. You now have and introduce a system of one-year, medium-term planning and even some long-term planning, you have to see what global movements will be like and what our environment will be, which is very important. By the way, I believe that this army and how could it, since we have civil and military co-operation here, would cooperate with certain of our scientific institutes, especially those that monitor these global movements. It seems to me that our country has very little cooperation with the scientific institutes in this country and they're writing some chambers, and it's collecting dust, unfortunately, and no one's using it. I think that we should also connect, as a state, since we pay for it anyway, the state should be much more connected to these institutes, and thus the military would, of course, have, along with what it is following, and what help from state scientific institutes. What came to my eye, that's, of course, the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense and as far as inspection supervision is concerned, this is great that the jurisdiction of the inspection is being extended and what the inspection is finally going to deliver, I'm talking about military inspection, which is being delivered somewhere, and it's going to be able to order someone somewhere and ban some further work, which is very good, so far it couldn't, and I think there's some order in the defense system itself. What I would especially congratulate you on and what is good is that you have introduced the Law on Defence, which is the protection of military institutions, in terms of card records and any pictures of military facilities, etc., it is good that this is no longer possible and that you can be held accountable for it. We've had a situation so far that some of our military facilities, even military resources, have been on hand. This law is now again, and it is good that it is banned again, it will not be possible for anyone on the cards to draw military land or military facilities, but, of course, that and how to defend himself by this law and whoever does so will also be wrong about this law and will have to answer. On that point, I really absolutely support it. As far as the Army Act itself is concerned, there are very good definitions. First of all, the Serbia Army itself, how is it organised? The way it was so far, it wasn't good. It's good that it changes. Serbia's army will be organised in the future at a strategic, operational and tactical level, which you clearly define there. God, it'll be like peacetime and wartime, which is a big change. I don't mind the name of the Air Force, I think it's an adequate name and it should be a military air force and anti-aircraft defense because we pilots in the military don't train to do lupping and to participate in some aeromitinsts, I don't mind, they practice there, it's very nice, but, excuse me, they're first of all schooled not to give God, in the event of a war conflict, act as a military air force and anti-air defense. I was very pleased to see "Strezy" here on our military parade, but it was all kind of more for the audience, and yet these pilots are schooling and doing something to defend the country first of all. So, the very term "war air", I wouldn't even mind if you introduced this "war river fleet", I think that would be far more appropriate. As for the introduction of the military defense, I fully support it. Personally, if you ask me, I'd like to introduce a military court and a military prosecutor's office. Unfortunately, I know I'm in the minority today and I wouldn't accept it, but maybe sometimes in the future we could introduce something like that, I wouldn't mind. In any case, these are good changes and additions, and this should be supported, first of all, because it introduces order into the military and into the defence system itself. Full support for something like this. I can only congratulate you and all SNS deputies will vote for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20804	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20805	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament continue to work. The word has the first National MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20806	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, respected ministers from the ministry, respected MPs, certainly is one of the country's basic functions to ensure the defence and security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in peace, wartime and emergency situations. For this reason, it is good that we are discussing the additions and amendments to the Law on the Serbian Army and the Defence Act today. The SDS parliamentary group supports those solutions set out in the draft laws to ensure the uniform and efficient functioning of the defence system. There are certain segments that can be repaired and improved in this law. I'll try to make sure in a short while, how long it allows me to explain first of all the things that we see that could be fixed in this law. First of all, here, considering that a very important issue is certainly the internal legal control system. For this reason, we welcome the essence of the changes proposed by which the Defence Inspectorate reports about the observed irregularities and illegalities, so we welcome the principle of independence on the work of inspectors. There are several shortcomings here. It's possible the minister is disrupting the inspector's independence. Of course, in order not only would we doubt all of this for that reason we ask that it be prescribed that the inspector obeys not only the orders of the Minister i.e. Not only does the minister not only inform the Minister but he also informs the National Assembly. For this reason, the parliamentary group submitted an amendment requesting that the inspector inform the assembly, i.e. The competent committee shall, at least once a year, during the calendar year, because such a solution already exists and has been established in the case of a military inspector-general. So we don't see any reason for this kind of solution not to be in this law. In order to make the law more effective, we believe that the change and part regarding logistics support is necessary, and for this reason we think that in some ways a member of the 45th is a problem where an amendment that regulates the logistics support of the military is proposed. In view of the 3rd member mentioned, it is predicted that logistics support can only be provided by military institutions functionally related to the Ministry of Defence. We believe that in some of the defined areas it is not necessary to narrow down the choice exclusively to military institutions, and here above all, I am referring to transportation. Security of transport for members of the Army. Some actions should not at all be in the work of an army such as hunting and forest work. It's just that we don't see the need for it to stand in this law. For this reason, we have also submitted an amendment and I believe Mr. Minister, that you will read this very carefully and that you will accept our suggestions and suggestions made in this amendment. As for the amendment and addition of the Military Act and when it comes to the draft of the bill, several proposed changes have been singled out, but it has also been noted that the legislator failed to propose some necessary changes. Here were the words, about the union engagement of members of the army and the administration before the beginning of this session we received a letter from the Serbian Army union where they sent us, but unfortunately too late to propose certain amendments to the proposed law. It's just that here you can see from this memo that when this law was done that it was very little consulted or not a little consulted union of the Serbian Army, which I think is very bad. I'm telling you, we consider this law to be a disenfranchised union engagement of members of the Serbian Army. One of the failures refers to Article 14 which regulates the right to political and trade union engagement of professional military personnel. The amendments to the law in this article suggest changes in the name of a professional military person that we absolutely accept. It is called a professional member of the military which is in the spirit of professionalizing this service by moving to professional times. On the other hand, Article 14 allows trade union action to deprive them of their reach and prevent some trade union issues. The unions are not allowed to flimsy their equipment with military equipment by handling it. I remind you that such a member or position has already been regulated in the Law on the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. on the Law on the Police in Article 134 where it allows the right to trade unions in a legally established manner. So, and that's where the practice showed, you remember everyone, that, unfortunately, a few years ago, the police hadn't been defined, that they had a protest, that they had suggestions, suggestions, and that, in some ways, it was a fruit. That is why we believe that there should also be such resistance in the military or such a kind of suggestion and suggestion. On the other hand, I believe that the union has first to discuss the management of organisational units, but that it does not have the right to reconsider command, because the relationship of employees to management is a union issue that can be resolved much more effectively by mediation through unions than by the elders who are subordinated because if the subordinated regrets the leadership of the elder, I fear that it will not be accepted in some way. I'll remind you of a similar case that happened in 2011 when we had a VOA intelligence officer complaining of just one similar example. In the end, I will say that as far as the SDS is concerned, whether or not we will vote in favour of this law depends on the adoption of our amendments. You will see that we have worked really hard to improve this law with these amendments. So, in no way did we want to politicise or anything but simply improve and improve this law that will work well in the future for the Serbian Army, as well as for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20807	The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20808	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Bogdanovic, I think you have made a substitute for what is the inspectorate and what are its responsibilities and what is one of the components of the Ministry of Defence and what is the inspector general who is obliged to hand over the report to the National Assembly, and the inspectorate is controlling within the Ministry of Defence of Law and the conduct of members of the Serbian Army in the units and his report is within the Ministry of Defence which is handed over to the National Assembly. So you have two concepts, two terms, and I'm afraid that it can't go with each other. As for transport, we're not registered for transport. That is why this provision is put in place so that we can use the resources of others. As far as the union is concerned, no union in the Serbian Army has any representativeness. When this law was drawn up, we took positive experiences from countries in the environment, EU countries and this member of the law that is before you today is prescribed from the French military law, from "a" to "s". What you're saying is that you have an example of a military intelligence officer that came to you from the Guardians as information, since he controlled it a few years ago, so I know where it came from. You shouldn't have said it, but I'm telling you. You should have also said that the army then acted according to the law and the Constitution and as the conclusion came then, on the basis of that complaint. As far as the union is concerned, we haven't lifted the unions. They have the right to organise, but all of these officers here can tell you that then, the transfer and any further actions that the service rules impose in the military, the way you ask us to do it, would be simply impossible. Because then you'd have complaints every time you need someone to send in a pre-command or every time you need someone to send in a certain task to say, I won't even complain to my union leader, who would come in the next day and file certain reports. So it was done absolutely in accordance with European legislation. I say we overwrited it and I can read you how many countries in our environment, in Europe, there are no unions organized in its law at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20809	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, distinguished guests from the ministry and the Serbian Army, I can say that I, as well as the MPs of the SNS, will vote in favour of these amendments and additions to the military and defence laws, because these are good proposals. We hear from the opposition, too, that most of these proposals are justified, that they are good, so that the Ministry of Defence can be satisfied and should only be praised for what it has done so far and what it has done to these changes. The only thing I can say is I'm sorry we didn't get to do it in December when it was necessary, but here, we end up now, a month later. Some other things have got in our way, but it's important for the military and our entire defense system to make this better. Many changes are consistent with other regulations and bring various changes, we've already talked about it here. I'm just gonna name a couple. For example, to further regulate issues relating to the specific military service and service under difficult conditions, which is important, as well as to health care, which I think is very important, remember the law that we passed on to these companies for physical and technical security, private agencies for the provision of property and persons, where we introduced mandatory licensing, i.e. Health check-up once a year. Here, in the proposal for the Military Act, it is now specified that, besides health care, a person who is admitted to the professional military service, he has a psycho-physical capacity, i.e. that she is too, which is also very important. That didn't say in the previous bill. It said that only health care is needed for someone to be a professional member of the Serbian Army. Sometimes as a member of the Air Force and anti-aircraft defense, I am now running in reserve, and I agree with this change in law, which is that instead of "aircraft and anti-aircraft defence" it says: "war air and anti-aircraft defence". So, someone who was a member of those units and when we defended our country from the aggression and bombing of the NATO Pact, which was not legal, I can say that it was something that was our tradition and it shouldn't have been interrupted. It was supposed to be that name. It's my pleasure, and I know a lot of officers I've heard from and seen some military pensioners agreeing that this name should be returned and that it should be an integral part of the law. I also want to say something like the head of our parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, as regards the work of the ministry and the Serbian Army. As far as Serbia is concerned, there is indeed a lot of things done and Serbia is one of the countries that is a member of the Partnership for Peace, as a military neutral state, there are others, I will give an example that this case is also with Sweden, Finland, Austria, Switzerland, that Serbia really cooperates with the highest and receives all the praises, and its military and our defence systems, wherever I appear and whoever I talk to. Serbia also made PARP, i.e. the periodic process of reviewing and assessing work, which should facilitate our defence system reforms and contribute to achieving the highest operational standards of our armed forces, as well as the individual partnership action plan, or IPAP, which is the highest form of co-operation with NATO through the Partnership for Peace, and does not involve membership, because many often replace it, or these. He envisions regular cycles of dialogue with the NATO Pact in four groups of issues, political-security, military-defense, administrative and public diplomacy issues, scientific co-operation and emergency planning. When I list all of this, you'll see how much it takes and how well we work together with the world and with that military alliance on that matter, of course, but also with everyone else. I say, we should always follow the experiences of those who are very successful in this, like Austria or Sweden, because they are good examples of the military and the defence system that cooperate within the Partnership for Peace. I'm not going to express here, because I want to give support to Serbia's military and the Ministry of Defence for the future. I will not express regret here for some earlier times, for some earlier technique and equipment, because the fact that the Serbian Army is technically in a technical sense, let's say that there is a problem, that it is not at the level at which it should be and who deserves and who needs our defence system, who needs what and what the military deserves, and also our officers with the knowledge they have, and what weapons and equipment they need. We have to invest, and we have to figure it out because of everything that's going on in the world right now. We've heard examples here, not military threats, because there's a lot going on in the world. We also had this "Arab Spring", we also have a situation in Ukraine, we have an extremely great danger who understands it or not, a great danger from what is called the Islamic State and what is turning, which must be turned towards our security and security of our citizens. That is why it is necessary, among other things, that as part of the defence system and the Serbian Army be better equipped and ready to respond to these challenges. Our military must be better equipped and therefore our military should, no matter what, be difficult times, but our defence system deserves to be defined through budgets in the future and I appeal to all MPs to perform this way, more funds for the Army of Serbia. These countries I was talking about have this level of 2% of GDP to stand out for the military. I think it's a minimum, given that we previously cut off some other systems, but it's not fair when we all know and when we're talking here, if it's something we're proud of, then it's our defence system and the Serbian Army. That's what Serbian citizens show through all the polls. I know that at this level, we have an organised health system, an education system, a judiciary, that we would already be at the level at which the defence system or the army of the Republic of Serbia is organized, we could already be a member of the EU as a very developed state, but there are no other systems at that level, and that's just because these people are patriots, which are thriftful, which are professional, which they know and have brought to that level of the system. They need further help, because it's for the benefit of our citizens. If we have a safe country, if we're in a safe environment, by cooperating with everyone else, then we can also develop the economy safely, because that's what businessmen look at, among other things, when deciding where they're going to invest and where they're going to have a safer environment so they can make profits, make profits, work, make products that work. Therefore, I would urge everyone to support these two draft laws, amends and complements, because they are well done and to support Serbia's Army and our defence system, because they deserve it and to pay attention to that in the future, in order to equip the Serbian Army in a technical sense better than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20811	The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20812	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable fellow MPs, I truly understand the need to pass new laws from a package of military laws, especially for the reasons that I believe that this will eliminate the problems and shortcomings identified in the course of the monitoring, the implementation of the already applicable law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence. What I can say as my personal position is that it is done through the necessary harmonisation of the legal system, i.e. the change of the legal system in the Republic of Serbia, which came into force after the adoption of the previous, therefore, law on defence. I also believe that one of the very important reasons for the adoption of this law is to remove the multiple regulation of the same or similar competences, which is very important, but I also think that this law also well covers the fact that more competencies that are repeated in several laws that regulate the area of defence, thus offices, and all of this together contributes to the more efficient functioning of the defence system. However, I will also list a few moments where I think a very important shift has been made in relation to the previous law. I'll name the next one. Only the adoption of laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence can we say that today has absolutely legal basis. I would like to remind you that Article 7 of item 2 of the 1st indent is a defined annual plan for the use of Serbia's military and other defence forces in multinational operations. When the previous law was passed, therefore the applicable law on defence, it was disputed that this plan was just founded in strategic documents. At that time, the legislator called for the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for the Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Strategic Defence Review of the Republic of Serbia. However, what is very important is that these strategic documents were in the congregation procedure and what is very important is that even the draft strategic review was not available to the public. Unlike the way things were done at the time, there are already adopted strategic documents today, so this law has absolute legal basis. The second moment, which is also very important, is one big problem in this previous current Military Act, is Article 14a. That grudge ever since it was brought out multiple times. It is a member who prohibits professional members of the military from participating in associations dealing with defence issues. This member of the defence ministry at the time has just manifested incarceration towards civil society. Similarly, such a solution is, which is very important, contrary to the principles of democratic civil society. Worse still, the member was also controversial because he opposed Article 141. A constitution that prescribes that the Serbian Army is under democratic civilian control. But contrary to the Military Act, more specifically Article 29. The law on the military, which also says about democratic civilian control, which prescribes that the subject of this control is, among other things, citizens, and thus their associations. I will remind you that this law was passed by the former government in 2009. Article 6 of the new law proposes that the amendments in article 14a allow professional members of the Serbian Army, instead of a ban, with the agreement of the minister, to actively participate in associations where exactly the topic of defence is, that is, where significant defence objectives are achieved and our country's army. This enables the principle of democratic civilian control over the military, but also presents the absolute openness of the Ministry of Defence to civil society. It is precisely one direct response to the unargumented attacks of the Protectors against the military, the minister, the VOA. Speaking of VOA, I can't help but mention exactly what was said a little while ago, which is buying listening equipment at the time of the previous government. So my question is addressed directly to the defence minister and this is something that is not only a question of me as a national MP, but something that certainly interests the citizens of Serbia, which is – were then the opposition leaders tapped during the period of the former government, who was tapped, who was then listened to by the minister, or the authorities, and why was the equipment bought without the knowledge and consent of our competent services that decided on it? Please, first of all, in order to inform the public of your citizens, give us an answer to that question and, in a detailed investigation, establish what this is really about. My personal response and the response of the SNS parliamentary group are certainly that we are changing the law so that everything we do is even more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20813	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20814	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable Minister, I must say, I have a serious nervous condition. First of all, there are a dozen generals in front of me, Colonel, and I must say that, remembering my service to the army, I have serious nervousness, but I have no fear. I have more fear than a minister, given the words he said these days, which were quite difficult. I hope that today there will be no words as difficult as those of the Citizens' Protector. Minister, you did not answer the question of why an emergency procedure, what was the point of the law in the field of military and defence, in the area of the state's work, which is not passed overnight, is the law in the area. So, it is not common for modern democracies, if we want to be, to be laws in the field of defence and to be brought to the military by emergency procedure. I know you don't want to be behind ministers from other resistors. However, this area, ministers, is very sensitive, you can see that these days it's come out of some track, which means a well-organized state, that the military has somehow, or service some, been pretty out of control. That's what it looks like, Minister. I'm gonna say a few things I don't have a lot of time for. The first matter concerns the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic when it comes to the Defence Act. This is where some of the president's powers are being expanded, and we may have been able to interpret more in detail that we had the opportunity to take a closer look at the law. However, I don't know, Minister, why you didn't propose an amendment and a Article 17. Army law? The member also holds some responsibilities from the president of the Republic, and they were very current when it comes to the military parade. The letter you signed and sent me an answer to my parliamentary question from December 1, 2014, when you speak about who ordered the maintenance of the military parade four days before Belgrade was released, the President of the Republic said. It might be a good idea for this member to be precise, and perhaps we have found that, let's say, the President of the Republic cannot move past the terms and conditions and laws and beyond the calendars, church, military, any calendars, to limit that possibility to the president, if he is already guilty. The next part of the answer is for you, you haven't given an answer, Minister, how much the Army parade cost. You're something around, like a rainstorm around Kragujevac, you didn't say what it cost, whether a million dollars, 10 million dollars, 50 million dollars. All we know is that that's where the ministers rained instead of doing some serious state affairs. However, my colleague Bogdanovic told us that military unions wrote to us, and of course, we regret that you have cut your salaries with military faces. We also have great regrets because you've reduced your pensions to military pensioners. You say here in article 90 that you are changing, says – a professional military person deployed outside the Serbian Army is paid and former members are told that soldiers are paid. What pay? Can he live off that salary, Minister? Can military faces get an apartment, can they make it during their working days? Minister, you say I can, and no apartment is built during your government, no apartment has been acquired by any military person. Before that, it was much better in the area. That's why we ask you, Minister, what are you going to do to make the army work? The people who work there should have some adequate compensation. These are the people who went to school, graduated from heavy school. These are no private colleges, no masters who were acquired at private colleges. I'm sure there aren't any people like that around here. These are the people who warmed up the chair well to become who they are and to wear these medals. The other day I'm walking with the New Sad and I see an ad – we're selling medals. You know where the state came from when people sell their medals. You know where a soldier or an officer came from or someone who's been in some war, so he sells medals. Dear Minister, we will if you accept some amendments to support this law, because we believe it is a certain shift, but it does not solve key issues. It doesn't solve the position of a soldier, an officer. This is where you end some rights. I don't know if anyone mentioned it today when it comes to retirement. So far, all the people who retire, and soldiers, military faces, have had some severance. Now it's over. It's only for those people who go into disability pensions. I don't know, I haven't seen that objection or objection in the union, but that's true. There are some more questions about the name, the term. Air Force, we don't think it's appropriate. Why didn't you go to the military air force appointment, so it would be different, say, from the civilian air force, and it wouldn't be associated with getting ready for, God forbid, some kind of war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20815	Time. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20816	Mr. Chairman, Article 106(1). I'm not going to ask to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I think the previous speaker spoke about everything else, and at least or almost nothing about the laws proposed. He talked about church calendars, parades, salaries, private colleges, selling medals. I haven't read anywhere, and I've carefully read both the bill and the other bill, and I haven't found anything and any connection between church calendars and the sale of medals or any distinctions with the proposed laws. Article 106(1) has been injured. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, you could have reminded Mr. Veselinovic that he didn't mind when Mr. Tadic was both the president of the state and the president of the DS and the Prime Minister of everything and everything. Then he was applauded by the commander-in-chief and I don't know everything. At the time, he was also in favor of the Constitution and the president of the state and the president of the political party, and now it bothers him that a man who was directly elected in the elections, who is the president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, gets broad powers. This type of inconsistency is also a disturbance of democratic relations, but also the dignity of the National Assembly, so that Article 106(1) and Article 107 are injured. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20817	Mr Babić, as chairman, I cannot deny what you said, but you will have to understand, Mr Veselinovic expressed a dose of fear at the beginning of the speech for the chairman and for the presence of so many officers and ministers. I was afraid a man might get stressed, and that's why I tolerated him. You'll understand. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: I respect. Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20818	Mr. Chairman, when you sit behind me and I have a dose of fear, as a former retired general. Don't be afraid, Mr. Veselinovic, Serbian citizens can be carefree. The army of Serbia, officers, the honorary officers of the Serbian Army, carry out their tasks in accordance with the Constitution, legal powers, so neither you nor anyone else should be afraid of the Serbian Army. I know that the time and existence of the Serbian Army begins from 2006, 2007 and 2008. Before that there was nothing, 170 and a few years of military education fell into the water, but since 2008 it's been going and it's okay. However, you must know that in 2014, we finished the building on Bežianjska hair, which began in the 1990s to be built for military faces, and that's where we divided 82 apartments. During 2015, it will be completed, it is number 29, building on Bežianski hair, military faces know it well. In 2015, we expect to finish an additional 150 apartments on Bežianjska Kosa. For your information, the military defences we are introducing and returning were, as were the military courts that were shut down at the time, extremely so that it could sell out the assets of the Serbian Army in the way it was done in that period until 2012, so that certain pastures could be given, to build buildings, to make a variety of things, and that's why we're bringing it back now. When it comes to severance, you're a folk MP and you've seen the reaction of every officer next to me, what you've said is absolutely not true. The severances remain as they were before. Don't just bring in any confusion, because that's not true. Of course we take care of the social status of our members. You asked for the urgency of the procedure. I explained to your colleagues that this law was already in the congregation procedure. Because of the lack of time, we failed to enter the congregation debate before New Year’s Eve. You've finished your session, and that's why we transferred him for this appointment. But, you know, as I said earlier, Article 192 at that point resulted in a large number of members of the Serbian Army, a high rank, coming with a request to use the law, because there was a question when this law would enter, when it would be transferred to 110, when they would be able to retire again and use the conditions for retirement at that time. Because of this continuity and the career management of members of the Serbian Army, we have now asked that this law be adopted as soon as possible, so that we do not have this discontinuity, and I have just explained it. You said something, too, that, knowing you, you didn't go with you -- the service got out of control. Yeah, but which control did the service fall off? It was ripped off that you can no longer manage it when it comes to checking the satellite affair, when it comes to arresting those who are taking money for bribes and buying funds at the Military Academy. She ripped off for those who bought radar without the consent of the Army's professional services. The service was cut off so that information could no longer be obtained from the individuals who were in the service. She didn't break off the law. She didn't break away from civilian control, from the civilian control of the VBA. No, but she ripped herself off in this second part, because she started, you just heard, one of you MPs said she was doing her job. What has been defended for years has begun to do its job, where someone can no longer take over your weapons and ammunition warehouse, as it happened in 2011. That's where the service broke off, and that's why it needs to be attacked. Even individuals sitting in this hall asked for foreign control elements on certain forums to come and deal with the control of the VBA service, to come from NATO, to come from the EU, to come from some NGOs that are very interested in controlling the work of the VBA. You read my letter answering your parliamentary question, how the procedure is, and how you wanted to read it, and how you ordered the start of the military parade, as well as our proposal, which we made, to be on 16 October, to the President of the Republic then. I didn't answer how much the military parade cost exactly. I told you it's absolutely not a secret information, that we're simply discussing the Army, and here are just people who are in charge of those safe havens in the Serbian Army. What it means and whether our military parade costs... If you can help us, thank you. I'd like you to help us with that. Is it because the Army ate in Belgrade on that day or those days the cost of a military parade, because we had to give those meals down in Vranj, we had to give it to Zrenjanin, we had to give it to other places? Is it because we spent the fuel and time on our pilots the cost of a parade because they didn't do their training in March of the month, which they had to have to have in order to have a certain number of hours of crashes and pilots and helicopters, fighter air pilots and everything else we have? We didn't have, unfortunately, the battery, because someone wanted to destroy it all. We have a problem with Krusik batteries, which was sold and privatized in 2012, which supplied the military with this. Is the cost of the parade that we've been practicing machines a step away? We had to do that both in Vranje and Nis and Kruševec and everywhere. It's just a dilemma we have, and I'd like you to help me, but every item in the Serbian Army is registered and available to the public. In our final account, everything will be shown. It will be shown that compared to some period before 2012 we have saved only on a trip to the country and abroad 500 million dinars. Only on those two items have we saved 500 million dinars. It will be written that for the first time we came to the 75th filling of the oil-derived war and peace-doping reserves, in 15 years it did not happen, that for the first time we came to 70% of our war- and peace-doping food reserves. Also, it wasn't anywhere. So don't worry. The army of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence does not want to hide any details from the public. We're always public and transparent, but we just have a problem showing this, nothing else. When you say medals, selling some medals, I'm sorry, but I think it's before they're museum exhibits. I just had a question from the SPS -- why do we have to do medals, medals and everything else in the National Bank? Just so there's no abuse in making those same ones so we can have a record. Mr. Chairman, as the general knows, and these people next to me, who wear their breasts medals, how important it is, and not to do it as in the previous period, and then you can get one such distinction from a former defence minister who writes his name and name. That's why we let the People's Bank work, so it doesn't come to this kind of thing. That's the answer for the SPS gentlemen. I think I've answered most of your questions, Mr. Veselinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20819	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, on what basis are you answering? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. He mentioned me several times. Mr. Minister answered your questions. He didn't mention you in a negative context. You think you're in a negative context? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20820	Thank you, Chairman. So, Minister, don't change the thesis. I didn't say I was afraid of officers. That's very important. I said I had a porch of them, remembering my military days of service in the army, the honorable service in the army. I think that's what all the officers who were here could hear. That's what I said to the chairman, too, that I'm nervous, and I said I'm afraid of you, or I'm afraid of you, in view of your weekly appearance towards some other independent regulatory bodies, so I figured you'd treat me the same way as the MP. I have to admit, I did a lot better than Mr. Jankovic. Veselinovic went better than Jankovic. Jankovic is on your mind, so you called me Jankovic. I know it wasn't a bad idea, and he's probably, in a way, a nightmare. I didn't mean anything by it when I talked about days and months and military parades. But I only wanted one question, and in that sense, it is my answer when it comes to what you said several times - you broke off control. I want to know how much the military parade cost. I want to know. If you say you can't tell us, then it's already another problem. I want to know as a MP whether members of some intelligence service or members of the unit attacked the gendarme in the security of Brother Alexander Vukic? I want to know. Come to the board [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20821	Mr. Veselinović, please. You know very well by the Rules of Procedure when it comes to questions, you can direct questions, the competent ministry will answer. Now you've had the opportunity to replicate Mr. Minister's exposure, you yourself said that you mentioned in a negative context what we saw was not true, because you said now that you know that when the lapus around your name, it was not malicious, so I don't think you have a chance of a replica anymore. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Let me finish. You've just finished Mr. Veselinovic. Word is that according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20822	I must be the chairman, to direct you, regardless of this reaction, but after one minute and fifty seconds of exposure by my colleagues, the criticism, I think that you have injured Article 27 and not for the first time today. I've been silent a number of times, but this is a principle debate, this is a Rules of Procedure against which I voted as a MP, but it is valid. You know who suggested it. This is a principle debate, MPs say, if they ask any questions, they get an answer from the minister. What happens next? So that's how we can, and the other MPs are waiting, we have five hours of debate. You give everyone a line, they'll extend it to those ten hours we didn't vote for, you know? On the other hand, I absolutely don't see any reason why you let Mr. Veslinović speak, plus what you came, when he started, you didn't chair but Mr. Konstadinović chaired... Anyway, Arsenovic, I'm sorry, General. Anyway, I don't see why. The minister explained, and the whole time it was already one remark from Mr. Babic, it wasn't about the laws at all, as it is now. He's interested, I don't know this, I don't know that, the price, the protector, etc. He has a day to ask questions, he can ask a question in writing, he has committees where he can ask questions and get answers. Now it's part of the agenda of the Defense Act and the Military Act. Modifications and additions. And that's it. And please take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20823	Thank you. The word, according to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, has the MP Balsa Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20824	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Becic, you have violated Article 108, and therefore, Article 107. Here's what I'm going to do. So - on the agenda of the National Assembly is taken care of by the president or chair, in his absence, by the National Assembly. I cannot believe that you can allow the MP of the positioning majority to give you a lecture on how and how you should lead the National Assembly without reacting and even giving that MP a round of applause from his colleagues. So, if you're under the pressure of the ruling majority, please ask for a five-minute break so that at least the heads of parliament can meet and solve this problem all the way. But someone here to suggest whether you have the right to give a replica or not, then here we are talking about democratic procedures or some established customs that exist in parliamentary societies, as apparently this MP thinks Serbia is not. I truly believe that you will be able to defend yourself against such attacks by individual MPs, who here in front of all the public here tell you whether you have the right to give a replica or not. It is your right to determine, but he suggests you don't. Because he's in a hurry because we've been discussing his opinion for five hours on very irrelevant matters. In our opinion, on very important matters, matters concerning the security of citizens, above all, of course of the Republic of Serbia, and in that sense, I ask you to remind those who do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20825	Mr. Bozovic, it is my duty to respond to your appeal to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Shormaz told me that Mr. Veselinovic took advantage of the possibility, since I was out of the O.R. and kept my promise that in his speech he would not talk about the subject. And that's exactly what Mr. Shormaz explained to me through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that Mr. Veselinovic did, that he still fulfilled the promise he made in the afternoon debate, that when it comes to the order of speakers that he would not talk about the subject. I had to listen to Mr. Shormaz, to conclude for the sake of the quality and seriousness of the debate he is, unfortunately, right and that I will try to continue to argue that I will instruct speakers to talk about the subject. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. Mr. Bratislava Gasic, Minister of Government. Here you go. You're giving up? Thank you. Mr. Sutanovac, you answered. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20826	Very explicitly as a former minister. The minister held as he said...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20827	Mr. Sutanovac, please, before you continue. I listened carefully to what Mr. Gasic said, he didn't mention your name for a moment. He mentioned the former minister. I asked myself to give me that medal to look at, but here I see a name and a last name, believe me I can't read. If you've recognized yourself on that, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20828	Mr. Becic, thank you, because it's my idea to raise this debate to a slightly higher level. There's an Ordnance Act by which the President of the Republic assigns the Ordnance. What you're holding in your hand, Mr. Vienna, is called a chip. What Mr. Gasic doesn't know so he calls it the Order is the fascination with a chip that I'm sure Mr. Shormaz also has. You've been given some foreign army officer, I assume, and that's something that's common for those countries that don't have the money to make some big presentations. You understand, so this medallion was made, which is the name of the defence minister, because that defence minister didn't share rich gifts, he didn't buy what the Ministry couldn't buy, and that's the only reason. Otherwise, Mr. Becic, as you know, it's neither medal nor medal, none of it is. You should warn Mr. Minister when he's talking, and you've been in parliament for 20 years, the laws concerning the medal have been passed, in this House, so you can say, Mr. Minister, you're disabling both parliament and the public, this is one token. It costs as little as the one in the car park. It is the fascination of individuals, but it is not that it is not serious, but it is unserious that the defence minister is taking it out and waving it. Please put it on camera to see what it looks like. If there was any chance he could hang himself, hang around his neck or something, he wouldn't. I see you've found yourself now in wonder, but believe me, what I'm telling you is the only truth and all the officers sitting here, here, General Zrnić, have you had a chance to get that from your foreign colleagues? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20829	Before I give my word to Mr. Gasic, you're trying a little bit of Mr. Sutanovac to insult the intelligence of the MPs. First of all, this can't be the moon park chip, so here I am consulting with Mr. General. He never confirmed it was a chip. This is something that can be like a gift or in some way could be a tribute to a guest in the international community, since it is in English. Here's what the public can tell if it's a chip from the park's moon. The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20830	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I honestly didn't want to talk, and I just wanted it to be on one higher level of debate today about these two important laws for the Department of Defense. I had a question from the SPS parliamentary group - why are we giving the banknote-making office to do medals? Just to prevent this kind of abuse, someone from the Department of Defense's budget spends money on chips for a park moon.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20831	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20832	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Honorable Officers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased, Mr. Chairman, that you have decided to return to what is the point of this agenda. Today, we have an extremely important proposal for legislation, a bill and amendments to the Law on the Serbian Army and a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence. What I would like to point out immediately at the start of my presentation in the principle debate is that I strongly support these bill proposals, as well as all other efforts by the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army to handle this very important area in the best way. For Serbia, this area is even more important by the fact that it refers to that sphere that we can be proud of, especially when we look at the sphere from the corner of tradition and history. I don't think we should particularly and specifically mention how many times in history we've had the opportunity to be proud of this particular Serb army and this particular Serb soldier. Only in the past 2014 was the year when we marked the 100th anniversary of the Great War, the 100th anniversary of the First World War, when we marked the 100th anniversary of the two great battles, the Colubary Battles and the Church Battles in which Serbia showed everyone and explained what the defence capacity of a country really meant, which means and what it means to defend the country and defend and finally, what it is moral and honor of a Serb officer and a Serb soldier. I support the adoption of these amendments from the law because I believe that this will eliminate both the shortcomings and all the shortcomings that have been observed so far, because these proposals are more precisely defined, i.e. by many concepts related to Serbia's Army and the Ministry of Defence, and all in order to improve, more functional and efficient functioning of Serbia's Army, the ministry, as well as the entire defence system of our country. I cannot help but look back and not point out as a special part of the Law on Defence relating to the establishment of military defence as a special organisational unit of the ministry that will be able to represent the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army in front of courts and other state bodies, as well as to take all legal actions and means to protect Serbia's property rights and interests, as well as the funds of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army necessary for defence and security. That's something I think is good. It's something I think is the most significant newspaper this bill introduces. When it comes to the proposal of the Military Act, I support all those proposed amendments, that is, everything that this bill defines. The military, organisation, composition and principles of service in the military, specific military service and service under difficult conditions, then commanding and handling Serbia's Army, then part of which is governed by acts in the Serbian Army, symbols and markings of the military, then military holidays, names of units and institutions, religious service and everything else. I think that in an adequate way it is arranged and an area that includes responsibility for the damage caused, democratic and civilian control, the public of work and everything else. I find it appropriate to point out the return of some traditional names. In fact, it is called the Air Force, as well as the return of naval acts to officers of the river flotilla that I personally consider to be more appropriate and adequate than the present proposal. I can't help but think about one topic that was raised today during the debate, and it concerns a listening device at the VBA, or the Military Security Agency, and I want to ask some questions, which is, since it was purchased during the former regime, I would like to know and ask - does the minister or any of the representatives of the ministry have any knowledge of whether he was bought on the basis of any valid decisions, for example, based on the government's decision or was bought on the private wish of the then defence minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20833	Mr. Markovicu, the same goes for you as Mr. Veselinović. We have a day to ask questions. In that day you will ask a question and ask the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20834	I'm going back to the agenda. These are very important questions and I think we deserve answers, Mr. Chairman. At least as much as we deserve the answer to the question – how much did it cost to make this medal that you were talking about? At the very end, along with all the above-mentioned benefits that characterise these laws, I add that one personal court has shown the seriousness shown by the Serbian government in drawing up this text that it highly respects the military as an institution, its importance and its position in the state. With this relationship, Serbia's military primarily returns to the importance and roles of the state. For all these reasons, I would like to invite all MPs to support these laws that I think will bring the Army of Serbia back to the place it deserves and belongs to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20835	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. ) Mr. Shutanovac, the replica, but on what basis? (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: He said – I want to ask the former minister. I know, Mr. Sutavac, but you must understand because of the session of the Assembly and because of the seriousness of the debate, because of all the MPs, that not every time a former minister is mentioned that it is sufficient for you to base the line. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Ask if he refers to me.) Please, Mr. Sutanovac. You have five minutes at the end of the debate. Make a note of all the questions and please answer them then. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Ask if he refers to me.) ) Not every time someone says – former minister that you have the right and the basis for replication. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: if he thought of me...) ) Mr. Markovic, do you want to answer this question? He didn't hear the question. (Alexander Markovic, from the place: You found yourself called. ) National MP Jasmina Obradovic has a word. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20836	Article 108. Dear Chairman, I won't remind you of what this member's position is, but it's simply incomprehensible, let's just say, three times today I raised the Rules of Procedure and I didn't get a chance to say that it's unacceptable to bring some things out of the assembly pay phone to the public. They insult the intellect, I suppose, of all people here...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20837	Mrs. Obradovic, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20838	Allow me. ... while you lead the controversy with Mr. Sutanovec, who sits comfortably in the congregation bench with you debates.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20839	Mrs. Obradovic, you are now taking the risk of me giving you a warning. Mrs. Obradovic, you know very well that you can contact directly when the Rules of Procedure has been broken by the chairman. You didn't do it because Mr. Markovic used to say it. You also know very well that it is not enough to raise the Rules of Procedure, that is what I was saying to Mrs. Komic or anyone else in this room without you being in the system. So, you have to pick up the Rules of Procedure at the same time and sign up and look. (Jasmina Obradovic, from the place: I know so much, Mr. Chairman. That's how much you know. You haven't been in the system once today. You are now the first time and do not deceive the congregation. Also, if you had continued, you would have been warned, Mrs. Obradovic. (Jasmina Obradovic, from the place: I have no words. ) Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves in the voting day? (Jasmina Obradovic, from town: No. I thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20840	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Respected representatives of the ministry, respected representatives of the Serbian Army, it is evident that there are two very important and important legislative proposals ahead of us. Significant not only for the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia, I would say for the whole society in general. First of all, I would like to say that the Defence Act regulates the country's defence system, the jurisdiction of the state authorities and the Serbian Army in defence, the rights and duties of state authorities, units of local self-government, citizens, economic operators, entrepreneurs, and, of course, it deals with other issues related to defence. On the other hand, the Military Act in general regulates the position and competences of the Serbian Army, organisation, composition, principles of action, specificity of military service, command and management. Of course, he also edits acts and titles in Serbia's military, symbols and markings, democratic and civilian control and other issues that are also important and important for Serbia's Army. These two legislative proposals, therefore, and the Law on the Army and the Law on Defence, were already discussed, were adopted in 2007. The latest amendments and additions to the Military Act and amendments to the Defence Act were adopted at the end of October 2009. From the moment of adoption to today, therefore, the time behind us has shown that both legislative proposals are not clear enough and that there are a lot of problems in their application. It is quite logical that after one, I would say, comprehensive analysis, a very comprehensive and high-quality public debate, today we are speaking in the Republic Parliament on the subject of amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Amendments and the addition of the Law on the Serbian Army. Of course, a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club was already talking about it, Mr Vukic said the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club would support both legislative proposals in the voting day. In fact, by supporting these legislative proposals, we want to support clearly and precisely the defined objectives that are to be achieved by adopting these legislative proposals, which is to ensure an effective and uniform defence system, namely more effective commanding and handling Serbia's military and ensuring the effective functioning of Serbia's Army. We expect that the adoption of these legislative proposals will be more precisely defined solutions for certain areas, also defined areas that have not been covered by these legislative proposals so far, and that both laws will be in line with the other regulations of the Republic of Serbia. We also believe that these legislative proposals after adoption will provide basic reform processes in the defence area and the Serbian Army, i.e. to specify the obligations of all entities in the area of planning, the competence of state authorities in these areas and, of course, towards the professionalisation of the military. As I have already said, when it comes to the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, we believe that these changes will better and more precisely regulate jurisdiction in order to make the defence system work better. It's already been said about the newspaper that puts this bill in motion. Therefore, it is true that the powers of the President of the Republic have been specified as commander-in-chief, as well as the powers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the powers of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief of Staff. The powers of the defence inspectorate, precise powers, strengthened its role and position and functions in the defence system have also been extended, which is also very important. In the opinion of the Socialist Party of Serbia MP club, one of the most significant newspapers adopted by the legislative proposal is the return of the military defence as a special institution to carry out the property and legal protection of the Ministry of Defence and the military. The basic reason, and that has already been said, is certainly the special nature of these goods, but also the availability of the Serbian Army's standards. Of course, such institutions exist also in the armed forces and defence ministries and other states. In addition, changes also specify citizens' training for defence purposes. This solution, or this provision, existed earlier, and we believe it is going towards a better functioning of the defence system. Also, this proposal defines both the planning and construction of military facilities, the competence of drawing up defence plans in emergency or war situations. What we think is also important is that certain moves have been taken to increase security in military exercises. As for the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army, I have already said, we believe this proposal will allow for better functioning of the Serbian Army and the implementation of tasks set before the Serbian Army. I just want to point out some of the papers that this legislative proposal makes us move to the position of supporting this legislative proposal in the voting day. Therefore, the return of the name Air Force and anti-aircraft defence is envisioned to continue the tradition and continuity of this generation of the military. Given that Serbia has river units, it is also envisaged to return acts to members of the River Units, bearing in mind that they wear uniforms and acts of that kind. What we may also consider to be the most important newspaper when it comes to the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Military Act, is that for the first time the work of members of the Serbian Army has been resolved during pregnancy and during the maternity period. So they will not be relieved of their duties, but their functions will be frozen during their absence. Also, work on jobs with increased risk has been specified. Newspaper is the possibility of working abroad. We believe this is a positive solution, because this way the members of the Serbian Army will be active in representing and representing the military's interest, and we believe that it will influence, or gain new knowledge and learn about the parallel practice of other countries. This legislative proposal is heading towards one, I would say, full depolitisation of the Serbian Army, which we fully support. In fact, a ban on political parties is foreseen and applies to all professional members of the Serbian Army. Also, the adoption of this legislative proposal is aimed at ensuring an adequate personnel structure of employees on one side in the Serbian Army, and on the other hand it is taken into account the maintenance of the Serbian Army's operational capabilities. In order to ensure an adequate personnel structure of Serbian and defence personnel, the proposal defines the possibility that, if the service needs are requested, civil persons, without public competition, can be admitted by a professional soldier who has spent at least nine years without interruption in a working relationship. On the other hand, with the aim of maintaining the operational capabilities of the Serbian Army, and bearing in mind both the annual inflow and the outflow of staff, it is possible to allow the officer, or the officer, to retire from 50 years of his life and at least 20 years of employment in service as a professional person. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Military Law and defence are in our opinion operational and strategic and they certainly want to improve the defence system and Serbia's military. In the operational sense, the military will also be better organised, the command and execution system will be improved, and it will be easier for officers and soldiers themselves to carry out the tasks they have received. Clear conditions have been prescribed for all military personnel from the start of schooling until the end of their professional careers. We believe that all these changes will remove what I've already talked about, the perceived shortcomings, improve the efficiency and organisation of the military and the full realization of what the tasks are. I would remind myself that good military work is also recognised by Serbian citizens, who have full confidence in the military, and this on the other hand shows an increasing number of young people who apply, both for voluntary military service and for schooling, both secondary and academic. What I wanted to say at the very end, and I waited for you, Mr. Minister, to return, simply for the sake of the public, so that there would be no doubt, the authorized representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia was mentioned on a few occasions, as regards the National Bank of Serbia's money-making office. I want to be absolutely clear and absolutely precise to say that we, as a Parliament club, welcome such a solution and think that this is a really good solution, because it removes the possibility of any abuse. In this context, the authorised representative, Mr Vukic, also spoke. So, we are prepared, of course, to discuss the amendments in detail, but I will say once again that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club in the voting day will support both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20841	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20842	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected gentlemen from the Ministry of Defence, we are today in principle discussing amendments and additions to two system laws governing the area of defence, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and Amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army. It is about system laws, and hence the attention of MPs and speakers before me is aimed at improving the proposed legal text. I must say immediately that the proposed amendments to the amendments and additions of both laws are very solid. They contribute to the arrangement of the defence system in general and improve the functioning and organisation and work of the Serbian Army. I'm going to point out some extremely good solutions, and I'm going to point to some, I think, irregularities, failures or weaknesses that may be the subject of considering some new amendments and supplementing existing laws. In fact, Mr. Minister in Article 4a is said to be -- that the defence of the Republic of Serbia includes civil and military defence. It seems to me that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Defence are a fully regulated element of military defence, but I share my opinion and some of my colleagues that this other component of civil defence is not so well diluted in the proposed legal solutions. Otherwise, the problem has also surfaced irregularities in the entire civil protection structure, emergency situations and civil defences. It seems to me that the existing Emergency Act, the existing Civil Protection Act and the existing Defence Act need the Ministry of Defence to agree solutions together with other ministries, because we do not have a solution unless we develop that civil defence component. We used to have General People's Defence and Social Self-Protection, so they treated the concept with ridicule, and I argue that many solutions from this concept do not allude that all solutions should be accepted, because some solutions have run over time, but some solutions from this concept are also acceptable to the organisation of the defence system today in the Republic of Serbia. It is inadmissible, some comments to the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, on my remarks about this solution, say it is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Emergency of the Republic of Serbia's Ministry of Emergency. It is incomprehensible that one entire civil defense system is in the jurisdiction of one sector, one ministry, in this case, the MUP. Too serious. Not to be considered, to agree on existing laws as I said, on civil protection, on emergency situations and the Defence Act. We don't have a fail-safe unit here, we don't have a first aid unit, we don't have a unit to remove the effects of atomic, chemical, biological impact, and we don't have many other solutions in these proposed legal solutions. The proposed legislative solutions foresee the existence and medium-term plans for the development of the defence system in addition to the existing long-term development plan. That's very good for me. Article 7 provides that, in spite of the current existence of a plan of defence of the Republic of Serbia, there is also a plan for the use of the Serbian Army. This solution has missed some of the debaters before me as collateral, which is what it's really about. The current solutions included a defence plan for the Republic of Serbia, a plan for the use of the Serbian Army. If we provide some other legal entities, entrepreneurs, entities, local self-governments with a plan to defend the Republic of Serbia, they are although incompetent, uninvited to meet, to know automatically and the plan to use Serbia's military. This proposed solution, which is a very good copy of the defence plan of the Republic of Serbia, is being delivered to local self-governments in the case, rather than to autonomous provinces, and I welcome it, but to local self-governments who are building their own defence plan in the event of a direct war threat and a war situation which they are unable to get acquainted with the plan of using the Serbian Army. This satisfies some elemental data protection that represents a plan for the use of the Serbian Army, a state secret. It would be very unserious for such a plan to be made available to any local self-government, to any private enterprise or enterprises that carry out areas of particular importance for the defence of the country. The solutions in Article 11 have been very well regulated that the President of the Republic no longer regulates the internal order and rules of service in the military but is done by the defence minister and it has always been so. He is a controversial member of the 12th government's mandate in the defence system, which says, Article 1, that the government together with the president has submitted a proposal to the Assembly for the declaration of martial law and war. What if the government and the president don't have the same attitude as whether conditions are created to declare a direct war threat, an emergency or a war? Well, let's say that the president comes from a political option that he appreciates that conditions are not created to declare a direct war situation, and the government from another political option that he thinks conditions are created or vice versa. What will the Serbian Parliament do then, and how will the Serbian Parliament be defined? He must propose either the Government or the President of the Republic. It seems to me that in so far's solutions, it was that it was the President of the Republic who proposed it to the National Assembly, but even if we were to define that the Government was proposing and if we were to define that the President was absolutely whatever, but I can't do both because we're creating an opportunity for a misunderstanding and that the Assembly must be defined either for a proposal from the Government or for a proposal from the President of the Republic. In the proposed point 1a of Article 12. The government adopts an assessment of non-military and military challenges, risks and threats to the country's security on a proposal from the defence minister. Gentlemen, the Department of Defense is responsible for monitoring military challenges, risks and threats. How will the Ministry of Defence propose non-war, repeat, non-war challenges, risks and threats? That could at least be done by the National Security Council. Saying non-war threats are global warming, hunger, terrorism, not to say what these are all non-war threats. Is it competent for the Ministry of Defence to propose non-war challenges, risks and threats and for the government to adopt so proposed. I think the defence ministry is competent to propose military challenges, risks and threats faced by the Republic of Serbia. That is why it is necessary to formulate or to do so by the Bureau for the Coordination of Security Services or by me, the National Security Council proposes non-military security challenges, risks and threats faced by the Republic of Serbia. According to the proposed solutions, the government does not prescribe the organisation and operation of the Monitoring, Notification and Alert Service. My question – who's doing it now? Who is dealing with the problem of observation, intelligence and alarming in the Republic of Serbia? The amendment of Article 17 strengthens the role of the Defence Inspectorate, which is very good and one of the very positive solutions with which it seems to me, and the minister will probably explain this to the defence ministry colleagues to whom the Defence Inspectorate is subordinated, the president or the defence minister. All right, so it's the Secretary of Defense. Amendments to Article 62(1) provide that defence operations are to be carried out by legal entities, entrepreneurs of importance for the defence of the country. I hope that there is a register of organizations, entrepreneurs, legal entities that carry out the work of particular importance, and that's very good. But it seems to me that we've neglected other entrepreneurs and other faces. Every citizen, every entrepreneur, every legal person has some obligation to defend the country. We're just apostrophe here that those legal entities and those entrepreneurs who are doing the work of particular importance for the defence of the country, and I think we've neglected other entrepreneurs and I think everyone in this country has some obligation to defend the country. Now I will have a military, or association of citizens, or a member of 76 who prescribes an association of citizens with activities of importance for the defence of the country. Mr. Minister, I have to ask you this, on behalf of the organisation of the reserve military elders of the Republic of Serbia, and I have to ask you, because I believe that you and your colleagues from the Ministry of Defense are both aware, of the importance that all associations are not of equal importance for the defence of the country, at the very top is the importance of the organisation of reserve military elders, especially the solutions that we have so far had in terms of training and training and expertise and the reserve composition for the completion of war units. So far, reserve military elders' organisations have been on the budget of local self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is rare that local self-government has been planning funds in the funding budget for these organizations, so these organizations are facing serious problems. My proposal is that in the defence ministry's budget, funds are planned to finance the work of the reserve military elders of the Republic of Serbia, precisely because of the importance that the organisation has, it is not meaningful and it is instructed to treat as other associations to cultivate tradition, liberation wars, SUBNOR, which does not diminish the importance of these organisations as well. As far as the defense is concerned, the importance of this organization is top priority. A very good solution, Mr. Minister, in 83, you arrange that more APs for known reasons do not, based on the general plan of defense, make their plans, do local self-government, and that's a very good solution. And in the end, I'm still talking about the defense law, the extraordinary satisfaction that you've introduced the new Head of the IX, which is military defense. After the abolition of military courts and military prosecutors, about ten years ago, perhaps 2004, here are colleagues from the military judiciary, no one could protect military property and the rights of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. They did so in a defence that was unregulated, so that huge resources and huge immovableities were drained from other entities in this country, causing huge damage to the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. This orderly defence, as the amendment and addition of the current defence law gives assurance in the event that this law, and I believe it will be accepted, that military property through the military defence will be adequately protected. We've given military immovableities to some local self-governments, given to the MUP, the Gendarmeria, some judicial institutions, and we've said that alienation of excess military assets is planned to achieve two goals. First, to technologically strengthen our army and to provide housing for our members and hence there is not enough resources, because inadequate defence, we have represented military facilities in the past 10 years for indemnity, i.e. to give to other state bodies or entities. When it comes to the Law on the Army of Serbia, Mr. Minister, I was expecting, and it did not happen, and therefore I ask you to try to with colleagues from the Ministry in some subsequent attempt to amend and supplement the Law on the Serbian Army, try to change Article 2 that says – The Serbian Army is an organized armed force that defends the country from the armed threat to the outside and performs other missions and tasks in accordance with the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this provision also makes it difficult in the war of armed conflicts in Kosovo and Metohija and during the break-up of the SFRY, making it difficult to use the Army in the event of an armed rebellion, in the case of major terrorist acts, in the event of major riots, and you are witnessing that after the attack on the satirical list in Paris, the French government has mobilized 10,000 soldiers, to establish order and protect vital objects, or objects of vital importance for the functioning of the state. Can our Government adequately in Article 2. The Army Act, to order an army to, to say figuratively, internally use? It is therefore necessary to complete this Article 2 and to provide for the possibility of enlisting the army in the case of major armed initiatives, in the case of secessions, in the event that the Ministry of Security and other security forces cannot seduce order in the state, and we have had such situations in the near past in KIM, when many foreign factors have made an objection to the engagement of the military, because the possibility of its involvement in the repression of armed rebellion is not legally foreseen. A member of the 39th regulation, and that's a very good thing, in his capacity as a suboffice until 35th year, as an officer until 40th year, but this member of you who you're changing, which we finally have according to the legal arrangements today, is that soldiers extend work under contract until 45th year, right, Lackovic's life, and after 45th year, people go to the streets, even though they become top-notch experts in Serbia's military, when it comes to some critical specialities, such as rocket launcher operators, such as cannon gun gun gunners, such as tank drivers, like many other specialties that can accept top trained soldiers by contract, to stay, to be accepted permanently. You will, despite any other legal solution, which I will later present, Mr. Minister, remain remembered by these amendments and supplements that allow quality soldiers under contract to be accepted permanently in the labour relationship in Serbia and this is an exceptional shift of these amendments and additions to the Military Act. Secondly, as you will be remembered, and what has failed Mr. Sutanovac for five years at a time, members of the army will celebrate you for the proposed Article 72b, which provides that, if an active member, an active military person gets a transfer if necessary of service, a spouse or wife has the right to social and health care and monetary benefits for the next six years, since he remains unemployed. The biggest, ladies and gentlemen, victims of disintegration processes on the territory of the former SFRY are officers. Mixed marriages have fallen apart, but we have done nothing as a society to protect what is next to us, and we are now doing this to Article 72b, in a way, to protect the standard of our professional members of the Army. With this, Mr. Minister, a very good solution, you allow a man who receives a transfer, not at his own request, but, if necessary, for six years, a husband or a husband can have social and health insurance until they are able to find a new job. In so far's solutions, we've made a poor woman of our officers, and every transfer meant a complete mess in the family, a loss of work, children, wives, others and factually, we bring down, that is, this is what we are doing to our officers who are doing a very responsible and honorable job, which is preparing to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of this country. We've been having a little discussion in the break, Mr. Minister, although it sounds a little strange, and I agree with Mr. Sutanovac, that the military person may be a member of a foreign expert association, which I very much welcome, but domestic, only with the approval of the defence minister. Let's expand so that the foreigner can, with the Secretary of Defense's approval, even it out. And in the end, I'd like to, there was a controversy here, let's sell medals. My fellow officers here know how bloody every medal is achieved and how much work and effort it takes. However, the observation that in Novi Sad someone is selling medals, I believe they are children of those whom the former regime has led to a beggar stick, so to survive, they are forced to sell and medals at flea markets. As far as the creepy term "war" is concerned, in the general sense of demilitarisation of this society, we have gone so far to "ef" in this country that we must not and must not think that the Serbian Army serves to defend the sovereignty, territorial integrity, integrity of the country. So how's he gonna defend? Why does the Serbian Army serve rather than prepare to defend its country's sovereignty by means of all means, including weapons? So why are we running from the Air Force, gentlemen? We can call it military, that it's different from civilian, but since we've renamed it "shipmen" at Uzica and King's place at civilian airports, I'm afraid this Air Force won't have anywhere else to land, nor will it have infrastructure. As we slowly take away their airports, I'm afraid this Air Force will no longer have anywhere to land, nor will it have infrastructure. How easily we take away their airports, all we'll have is Nis Airport half and Batajnica Airport. We'll drop him off at an airport. Why didn't we predict that each of our civilian airports could be a military airport, as is the solution in other countries? It's a good thing you brought back the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defense. You might as well call it the Air Force, if it bothers anyone so much at war, we're not challenging. Thank God the army's not getting ready for war. We're just meant for peace missions and parades. Otherwise, the army must not prepare for war. I think it is the key role of every soldier to be prepared as if there will never be a war and be prepared as if there will be a war tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20843	Thank you. The word has a minister in the government, Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20844	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. General, you who have also spent your entire working life in the military, when you make remarks, are often justified and therefore I need to answer a few things. Article 50(3) shall apply to international organisations alike with the agreement of the defence minister. The answer to your question why the minister gives consent to organisations within the country and not to international ones. As for who gives the order to impose a war or emergency, when the National Assembly is unable to meet, the decision to declare war or emergency shall be made by the Joint President of the Assembly, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, Articles 200 and 201. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This law determines who submits a proposal to the National Assembly for the introduction of an emergency or war situation, so that we define and who is responsible for it. What you and I have commented on in the break, I will read to you from my opening presentation. With amendments and additions, we prescribe the powers of the authorities, commanding and handling Serbia's military to produce documents that degrades the Serbian Army doctrine, providing assistance to the military forces of security and the formation of common forces, and not only in the event of a threat to the border belt when we define an outside aggressor, but also in another part of the territory where security is threatened, and at the request of the security authority. Your third question was about associations. You are absolutely right, we are of great importance to all the organizations of the reserve military elders and a series of other military associations. You know, there's lots and lots of non-military ones, they've attached themselves to the Department of Defense, that we've had meetings with them, that we've accepted funding parts of their expenses, offices, phones, electricity, heating and everything else they have, but we just want to make one register of the association now and that they can be carefree that we... This is also prescribed in Article 37 of the new law, which says – criteria and procedure for the allocation of funds under Article 2 of this article is prescribed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Defence, so we will certainly take great care of the people who are very important to us for the functioning of the Serbian Army and for the security of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20845	I thank you, Minister Gasic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. Mr. Sutanovac, I'm going to turn on the microphone just to explain the basis of your report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20846	The basis of my report is in the presentation of MP Stojanovic, who said that Minister Gasic would be remembered as the historic personal defence ministry, and that I, Dragan Sutanovac, had not done three points by name and last name, so if you please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20847	If your name is mentioned, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20848	First of all, I don't know that it's some newspaper that military-faced spouses have health care. It's since it's sacred and memorable. Here, the officers are here - do your non-employees have health care, are they being treated in the military system? On the other hand, Mr. Stojanovic, you said that, behold, a translator is finally being introduced, so thanks to the possibility of abuses that were allegedly in the past, when something was assigned without compensation and so on. What does that look like? It looks like this. So an ex-four barracks is assigned. July" or "Stepa Stepanovic" in exchange for 21% of the built area plus the financing for paying the utility for the area that existed, and now the Ombudsman will sign the contract, if he has not already signed it, to replace the barracks in Zemun at a better location than on Vozdovac for 12% of the built area, so the apartments will be taken into "Stepi Stepanovic". If this is a new way of organizing and you support it, Mr. Stojanovic, I must tell you that you are extremely wrong. No local self-government has received a military facility for free, and this government has awarded the VTI building at the temple of St. Sava for free to the Ministry of Justice. So if you're talking about arguments, then tell me what's true and specify which municipality she got free of charge and which facility. Otherwise, the Property Directorate sells and replaces the property of all in Serbia, including the property at the disposal of the Serbian Army, or the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20849	Thank you. Right on line, MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20850	An argument has been asked for my previous claim that some objects have been given. There is a plan to alienate surplus military complexes – Master 1, 2 and 3. I used to take part in the development of the plan as a deputy commander of the land forces, which first offered to local self-government, if they were not interested, and they're interested in winning for free and then accessing the plan. The problem is when these military immovableities became state property, not military property, and that is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which does nothing to solve the problem of surplus military property. You're asking me where it's possible. Let's say the "Buban Heroes" barracks in Nis is a huge complex in the city center that is worth far more. Because DS was at that time in government in Nis was sold for a million and a half dinars. That's what all experts say financially that it's been given in debauchery. You also have the Supreme Cassation Court facility here where the former Defence Command of Belgrade is. Is it a gift? Is there an object donated to the gendarmes? Is it donated to the Ministry of this? If in your day the objects are so detached, that's my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20851	Thank you, Mr. Stojanovic. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20852	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The same way we're sitting in this room, it comes out on the Twitter profile of Mr. Former Minister, who's already arrived to make my coen with my character and let it go, so since I'm getting it from the press, they're asking me if the photo is an installation or whatever it is, so much for what you've got. It's already come out of here. The same way the information you hear now is coming out, even though I never expect the MP to... But I can expect such a thing from such people's MPs. First, to come out of the truth, the VTI building was given for a location from 32 to 36 of the justice ministry plus Timočka where the Fourth Municipal Court is. So it wasn't given without the money. When "Alexa Dundic" is concerned, the estimated value by the Tax Administration was 12m euros from the Republic Tax Administration. For built apartments, we received the same value, worth 12m euros, apartments in Novi Sad and Belgrade, which is 12%. When you mention "the Duke of Step" you forget that at that time the state was giving subsidies in contrast to the Republic's Directorate and that's a huge difference. My question for you - where's the money from the fever? Why did the money go to the airport of Ships and spend it in some building you built there, which is probably the joint investment with the Turks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20853	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. He asked me a question. Mr. Sutanovac, here you go, but you still have to tell me the basics, because it was about the former minister. So I have to make sure it's you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20854	Wait a second. So the minister said - answer my question, look at me and ask me. I don't know why you think there's another former minister here. He asked me personally, and Mr. Stojanovic mentioned me by name. Is it possible there's such a fear, people, here, that someone answers...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20855	Here you go. Before you get the word, just Mr. Gasic to complete his exposure to whether he meant you. Here you go, Mr. Gas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20856	One more question. The Supreme Military Court building in Statnička 29, given without compensation, without any conclusion from the government, the Ministry of Justice. Here, and let someone answer me why the property of the Serbian Army was given?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20857	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Now I'm sure you have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20858	It's no problem to analyze what's given. Just, Mr. Gasic, let's put it in the time frame in which we live, politically. So I ran the Ministry on May 15th, 2007. It is true that that was the first time the Serbian Army, after many years, had come to life. This facility you mention was assigned, was the Serbia-Montenegro Army, the Yugoslav Army, the JNA, what is it you people are throwing at you for, I don't understand? Ask the officers when they brought the marks of the Serbian Army? So, let me get back to the subject. That's right. And not only here, but also on Nemania Street, there was a building of the former military prosecutor's office, or whatever it was, which was destroyed, for some 800 apartments. It's never been realized. It was done at the time of the SPS government and the Serbian Radical Party. But let's put that back in the context of the time we live in. I wonder what it's like, you say - she estimated the tax administration, so 12% of the 12 million. You should've asked for 21%, because we would have been 12% the same on "Vojvod Stepi", so that would be 500 less apartments for members of the Serbian Army. A little while ago, you boast that last year you assigned the keys to 84 apartments. You shared in Stepa what has nothing to do with you objectively. We're talking about 500 apartments here today at a better location. Do you know what it was like before? That's what the VBA was investigating. Here, let Mr. Stojanovic speak. When it was 12% in Kumanovska, what were you doing as VBA? If it hadn't been for the VBA to break up now...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20859	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, don't address another MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20860	I said, let him say, I didn't tell him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20861	Please, you can't do it like that by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20862	I'm asking you to talk about real things. The real thing is 21%, the real thing is 12%. So, twice as much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20863	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20864	If you're going to convince us that the government was doing well then, just to finish the sentence, and subsidize the construction industry, it is. That government did it. Why isn't this government doing? What does the building minister not allow you to get 21% and be 500 more apartments for members of the Serbian Army?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20865	Thank you. This isn't one sentence. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20866	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a skilled replacement of thesis, a Twitter joke, I have to turn around and apologize to the citizens of Serbia. Mr. People's Parliament, this is about exchange of values. So it's not about postponing apartments, like it was the "Vojvod Stepi" procedure. So, at the same time, we get 12m euros in finished apartments in Belgrade and Novi Sad. There's absolutely no connection and parallel between those two things you're talking about. For your information, since Alexander Vukic's arrival as defence minister until 31 December 2014, the Serbian Army has divided 1,420 apartments. That's the result of two and a half years. Were they started at the time of Tito, Slobodan Milosevic, someone third in the period until 2000, we finished them. They're rightful, these people have come up with the rightful solutions and they've moved into their apartments. When they start, it doesn't matter. Of course, there are some more questions. I believe I will have space after such questions to ask, when it comes to "Serbian Bank", and we will also have an interesting discussion there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20867	Thank you. In the order of speakers, the word is made by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20868	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, honored guests, amendments and additions to the law send Serbian citizens three very bad messages. The first message is that these legal solutions do not improve the security system. Another message is to give wider authority to members of the military police against citizens, or civilians. The third message is that the ruling party's legal involvement in the defence system is possible, i.e. to strengthen what the Citizens' Protector said several days ago in one of the biggest affairs in Serbia so far, the "Tailing" affair that has so far been done by law and knowledge, or court order. I'll explain why. When it comes to the bill, where the security system is not being improved, the current state of political power is being maintained, the government is focusing on the defence minister, or the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the authority of the President of the Republic and the Chief of Staff is being reduced. Whether there are dissonant tones on the relation of the President of the Republic – the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is not the subject of our interest. In any case, we do not want this relationship to be set up in this way, that the collateral in this respect of the attachment and the struggle for the power of the citizens be collateral. Then, laws give greater authority to members of the military police towards citizens, or civilians, and shifts the focus from the intelligence and security system to the security aspect. So we're going from abroad to an internal enemy and opponent, or possibly a political opponent on a domestic scene. I'll remind you of what I said at the beginning. In the last few days, the Civilian Protector Mr. Sasa Jankovic received information that, without a court order, certain members of the military security services, or military police, were listening, monitoring, recording...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20869	Mr Bozovic, please, the MPs are right to invite you to talk about the subject. Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20870	This is exactly the topic of the agenda for the simple reason we're talking about a legal solution, or a bill of law that can make these things that I've now led to be mutilated. Please just let me finish. Otherwise, I can deliver my prepared notes to you in the future, so I can tell you in advance whether or not I can speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20871	Please don't. I'm just asking you to get closer to the subject. You know very well what the laws are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20872	The second offense to these changes and additions, I remind you, was the authority of members of the military police to civilian citizens. In that sense, the Citizens' Protector said that after the information has been published, it is not safe to talk about how many Serbian citizens today, unless the Citizens' Protector feels safe, too, cannot feel safe. Minister Gasic, present here, who otherwise proposed amending and supplementing the law, refused to co-operate, arguing that different legal standards were interpreted by the Citizens' Protectors and him personally. If so, then you say yourself that there is no legal certainty in the Republic of Serbia, which is a very bad message to the citizens of Serbia. My question, specifically, if it isn't, why are you hiding, so you didn't go to the Citizens' Protector with the necessary information he's asking the Ministry of Defense or the military security agencies? Otherwise, you will confirm that there is no legal certainty in Serbia. On the other hand, you bring a proposal to the Serbian Parliament, so that, in our deep confidence, we can legalise on a small door everything that has been the situation so far, and it speaks of the obvious abuses of the VOA, i.e. the rights of citizens. What happens in that case with legal certainty, with human rights, with the dignity of individuals? What happens to the right to privacy? If all this is threatened, then the foundations of democracy are threatened, and I think it is absolutely unnecessary for anyone from the government of the Republic of Serbia to do anything when it comes to the freedom of the citizens of Serbia. I think that in this way someone in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who gave you orders, orders, or perhaps you personally, or perhaps someone other than your knowledge, who is misleading you, is playing with the freedom of the citizens of Serbia. He who knows the history of his people, the history of the people in Serbia, then knows that freedom is the imperative of our citizens, that they have given a lot of history to fight for it and I don't think it can be ruled this way. Under number three, the laws allow possible interference of the ruling party in the defence system, above all, through members who allow civilian persons to be admitted into the army without competition, it is possible to make these amendments and additions to the law, or to make deals with private partners on a longer term in military infrastructure and logistics transactions. Today, there were words about it, and if you know it, and I think you're absolutely sure, not only as military minister, but also as vice president of Serbia's largest and largest party, which is now dependent on public opinion research. I think that these researches say what citizens don't know, which is that fear is a dominant feeling in the citizens of Serbia, fear of different things, among other things and of non-security, among other things, fear of war, among other things, and of those things that are being regulated by these changes and additions to the law. It can't be ruled in a way that citizens feel fear, and that someone is trying to mutilate party interests with these changes and additions. When it comes to the Army Act, specifically...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20873	I thank you for going back to the law, because if you continue your political speech to speak, I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20874	Political speech is not all in the interest of Serbian citizens. This law corrects certain illogicalities or interprets some new circumstances and practices created in recent years, and that is all we would vote for this law. Since there are other things that are visible, then I'll explain them. It is noted that certain powers are being reduced to the Chief of Staff in the area of proposing a military organisation, when it comes to the military, and certain powers in the affairs of the appointment of officers and officers in the military, in particular in Article 3. Also, in Article 3. The amendment, referred to as ‘aircraft and anti-aircraft defence’, thus the PSC, returns to the earlier term ‘war air and anti-aircraft defence’ by adding the word ‘war’. This change seems completely unnecessary and cosmetic to us and tells us of a demagogue urge to change certain names of very important things within the Serbian Army and certain parts of the Serbian Army, in order to highlight somewhere too much desire for some memories of old times. This change does not change the essence of things, but on the contrary, no single percentage improves the situation in the air which is more than critical. We find it unacceptable that the current government shows complete concern when it comes to the state of the air force, which is one of the basic resources of the defence, not to mention ensuring the safety of the airspace using hunting aircraft, whose planes, and you know it, are on the edge of the resources, and there are only a few. In Article 27, paragraphs 8 and 9, it is very controversial, and that is the same issue, extending the authority of the military police, as it concerns the security of citizens living in Serbia, and in cases where there is a suspicion that a civilian has committed a crime against Serbia's military. Who guarantees citizens whether he is an opposition leader, whether he is a member of an opposition political party, and whether he is an ordinary citizen of Serbia, that in this way and these solutions will allow someone to truly have the right to privacy and to their personal dignity? Nobody. From the earlier practice of such a provision, we find it very disputable and quite broad application can lead to enormous abuses. When it comes to the Defense Act, a more precise definition of the defence system is observed. Also, part of the president's jurisdiction is excluded and transferred to the government and the ministry, which is probably part of those dissonant tones that have been circulating Serbia for more than a year. In Article 9, when it comes to the Ministry of Defence Inspectorate and its responsibilities which are not put to an end, it is not clear what is the relationship of the defence minister himself, namely you, Mr Gasic, and the President of the Republic, who should in certain situations encourage, or order the inspector of the investigative action and then take certain steps. This is how everything is left to the Inspectorate, from the investigation to the application of what was found to be suspicious or incorrect. In Article 20, when it comes also to the Defence Act, it is not clear why the definition changes the name from "intelligence-security" to "security-intelligence jobs in the ministry" and why is this focus being shifted from intelligence to security? So, from foreign to foreign opponents, which also raises doubts that the democratic system of government in Serbia has been brought under question. If VOA members have the authority to listen to opposition leaders, then this whole thing will take a different direction. Article 45 on the conclusion of long-term agreements and the establishment of co-operation with private partners in activities of importance in construction, reconstruction and maintenance of military facilities also raises questions about possible abuses and possible corruption within the Republic of Serbia's Army. When it comes to the Military Act, you'll be remembered as the minister whose government was one of the biggest affairs, the listening affair. When it comes to the Law of Defence, you will also be remembered as a minister for whose time individual members, according to the Citizens' Protectors, the Army of the Republic of Serbia, or the Military Police, have protected certain corruption affairs and actions of individuals who, instead of prison, have retired. I think it's a recipe you're trying to make, but not threaten me, but listen to me...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20875	Mr Bozovicu, for the third time, I am asking you, because of you, I have a report on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that you return to the topic, that you do not communicate in such a way with the members of the Government, that you do not threaten the members of the Government. Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20876	You've taken me a long time, and I haven't threatened, but we've been speaking to Mr. Minister from the post, which is also unacceptable in this home. So the recipe for these changes and additions, which the ruling party is trying to get the government in Serbia, is not good from the point of view of human rights and democracy. They are at risk in Serbia, and that is the topic of the agenda. I don't think I can talk about it without talking about it, and otherwise you can take away my word and warn me, if you think democracy is a subject forbidden in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20877	No, democracy is just allowed in the Serbian Parliament, but democracy is not that you are violating the Rules of Procedure, that you speak out of the agenda. If you don't know, I'll read you what laws are on the agenda, and right now the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Army are on the agenda. So, Mr. Bozovic, if you want to keep talking about these laws, you can, if you want to keep talking about everything and everything and some written speech you have, you can read at some other point, not now. Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Do you want to continue on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20878	I want to continue and finish by saying that democracy is compromised, that you took two minutes for which I assume you will bring them back, that democracy is threatened, that human rights are at stake in Serbia, and I ask you, as chairman, to allow a democratic debate on laws that mean to citizens, given that fear...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20879	That's exactly what Mr. Bozovic, I want to make it possible to debate the laws that are on the agenda, not what you're talking about. I'm aware that you want to challenge, I'd better refrain from what I'm trying to say, but your intentions at this point are not well-intentioned when it comes to a session of the National Assembly of Important Laws that are on the agenda and we're going to continue on the agenda. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20880	Dear Chairman, I would like to advertise 106th and 107th, although 106th, you have warned a small-time speaker that he can only stick to the agenda points, but 107th is really more insulting to dignity and general and us in the Assembly and the entire public. You know, there's information here that there's some kind of listening affair. I'm asking you to spread that information to give us where the military security agency was listening to unions or political parties and to tell us concrete evidence, because we can't allow this anymore. There's paranoia here in society, and someone consciously does it to cause some fear that someone here is trying to impose on us as if it exists. We can't act like this anymore, because the credibility of the military is going down, the credibility of the VBA is going down, and the credibility of the entire society is going down in this way when some of this kind of falsified information is going public. I ask you to remind these MPs in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20881	I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. The MPs had the opportunity to see that I had used and applied, and several times I had sent and invited an MP who spoke, Mr Balša Bozovic, to talk about the subject, but I see that he wanted to read his speech, that what he was prepared to say and that he could not speak anything out of it. I thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has a minister in the government, Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20882	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a comment from my associates at one point when Mr Bozovic addressed was -- what text does he read this, what is he talking about, because this again she's talking about Pajtic's attack on his own law that he passed? So Mr. Bozovic attacked the same law that we are now changing. Article 27 reads – a new Article 6 is added to Article 53 after Article 5. It's a change. The fact that you attacked, you attacked your law. Powered officials of the military police are acting on the request of a military-disciplinary prosecutor and a president of a military-disciplinary court to bring professional members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, who are suspected of committing a disciplinary offense if they avoid a hearing on disciplinary reconnaissance or a major search before a military-disciplinary court. Position 6 so far becomes item 7. In the present position 7, which then becomes item 8 after point 3, point 3a is added, which is said to be – when there is a fundamental suspicion that they have committed a crime against the Serbian Army for which they are being prosecuted under official duty. In the present attitude 8, which becomes the position of the 9th word "civilian" is replaced by the word "civils", I do not understand you read your member and now enter here, but thank you Mr Bozovic. It will allow me to chair that I can finally tell the citizens of Serbia everything I've been silent for 10 days, but I need to protect all these Serb officers and once I can tell you everything that you're behind, because you want to make an affair, you want to clear up the space in front of Alexander Vukic, but it won't come your way. You want to reduce the security of the Prime Minister by doing so, and I'm going to show you all one document at a time. When it comes to Article 20, you do not deal with terms of what the VOA is and what its competences are, what is VBA and what are its competences. It says here in Article 20. - Security intelligence business is important for defence: security affairs, counterintelligence, intelligence business, military police operations carried out in accordance with special laws. Terminal security affairs are replaced by a term of security intelligence, which makes for a conceptual alignment with the VBA and VoA Act. They also specify security intelligence issues of importance for defence. What's the problem? Why are Serbian citizens at risk because we agree with the Law on VBA? You also attacked a party whose proud vice president, thank you for your kind words, that we are the greatest and we will be the greatest for many years. Reception without competition, civilians, has existed in Serbia's military since 2007, members 120 and 121. Serbia's Military Law, in certain formational places, and the procedure is governed by the government. The government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, has banned reception this way, as it was in the previous period. What interests you most, precisely the desire to clear the space, the desire to reduce the value of everything that the government of Alexander Vukic has done in the past ten months, not six, some slow time goes by, what to do, is a significant part of the Serbian Army. It is that she has set out to clean up all those crimes in the fight against corruption and crime, is to find the cameras of your financiers that were prepared where the Prime Minister should hold the meeting, is that she has arrested all those who took bribes and who wrote and damaged VMA, is that she has arrested those who bought the radar without the consent of all the services in the Serbian Army and is a number of other things she does. The Information Commissioner, Mr. Rodoljub Sabic, has just come out to ask the government, and that is another one, he will say – so that we are now attacking etc. They've already prepared a defense strategy, and now no one can ask us anything for God's sake, it's not true. Rodoljub Sabic came out with a skill, and here I am now getting a message to force the government of the defence minister to give the information he is looking for. My question to you is that I don't give anything that Rodoljub Sabic asked for in 2008 of the then defence minister? And that's when the Department of Defense gave everything that didn't penetrate the military's secret. When I went out and said, first let the citizens of Serbia know that I answer to Rodoljub Sabic for something the previous regime did not want to give him, and you warmly support him and you say -- he does not know that there is no military secret, and now I will read to you that there is a military secret. A military secret as a crime still exists in Serbia's legislation. I need to answer and answer, and they're gonna drag me through all sorts of yellow presses because I'm not giving anything he was in charge of giving the previous defence minister. If it wasn't a military secret, why didn't you give it up back in 2008? It refers to the number of aircraft and the number of attacks by the Republika Srpska Army pilot. I said - punish me, you didn't ask me for it, you asked for the previous minister, but I can't give it, because the next day I don't think I'm eternal in the minister's chair and the next day someone's gonna file a criminal report and I'm supposed to be responsible for issuing military secrets, I'm not going to let that happen. A lot of Serbia's military gave data that others have asked us to do, and it's been on the rails for the past 12 years. With regard to the statement made by the Commissioner for Public Information that military secrecy has been lifted, it should be borne in mind that the internal regulations of the Ministry of Defence and the military continue to prescribe military secrecy. Also, it should be borne in mind that the Criminal Law of Article 415 provides for a criminal act of military secrecy. A member of the Criminal Code said it was prescribed that military secrecy should be regarded as information that was highlighted by law and other regulations by military secret to the Serbian Ministry of Defence and internal regulations governing the secrecy of data and which remain in force. Also, what I keep mentioning is that this is a request from the Commissioner for Information eight years ago for the "Today" list -- how much it cost to fix the moments, what it was done at our moments, and how many moments ago we have and how many hours of Serbian Army pilots have an attack. Let's open it up then. Then we come to that situation Stojanovic said earlier – so nothing in this country is sacred anymore, so we can be open to everything. As for the Citizens' Protector, gentlemen, on the 26th of September, and I will deliberately raise every piece of paper so that the citizens of Serbia can see everything, see that we are not hiding anything from this place, and that they can leave this place together with the Citizens' Protector to do a check on the VBA and I guarantee that everything will be okay and in accordance with the law and the Constitution, but that doesn't suit them because they have another intention. He addressed the Ministry of Defence and the VBA, with a request, quote – Your Honor, Mr Cvetkovic, I would like to announce you in the spirit of co-operation and the Constitution and the law of regulated relations between the two state authorities to the preventive control of the visit to the VBA. He later talked about the system, the preventative of the Citizens' Protector. He knows neither preventive nor systemic control. He knows a control in which, in seven years' time, the Guardian of Citizens has never come to the VBA. They came individually at the request of individuals, but in the control of the Agency, which neatly delivered their reports and to the Security and Security Services Committee and had two days before that adopted a report on the Committee to the Assembly. Then some who later supported it should have said – so gentlemen, we adopted their report two days ago and visited VBA and control and did not establish any irregularities. So, he disabling himself with his story of the past ten days and the Assembly's Security Control Committee, where he says - the goal of the visit will be in the broadest sense the legality and regularity of carrying out the tasks of the VBA, which are important for achieving guaranteed rights and freedom of citizens. During the visit, special attention will be paid to specific procedures and measures taken on the basis of the orders of the Director of VBA or an official who has been authorised by the Director and point 2. – promotion of a member of the VBA. Prevention control will be implemented on Tuesday 25 November 2014 starting at 12.00 hours. The preparatory meeting will be organised on Friday 21 November 2014 at 12:00. That's a request we got two days before the pride parade was held. Two days. There's an incident going on. On 1.10th, the defence minister, on the basis of Article 18(1), orders - measures taken from his jurisdiction to examine the circumstances of determining the actual state of play under which the military police special purpose “Cobra” battalions in Belgrade were physically attacked in Belgrade on 28 September 2014 by members of the gendarmery, the MUP, during the performance of the task. The holder of the VBA military police department. Rok – right away. After examining the circumstances of point 2 and determining the actual situation under which the special purpose of the Cobra military police are physically attacked, propose the measures needed to prevent such events from taking place in the coming period, in order to carry out the tasks of a member of Serbia's military plan and securely. Also, Serbian citizens can see. On October 2nd, the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, number 54622014, by the Serbian Army and the General Staff of Serbia and the military police administration - a request to provide the necessary information. We need you to let us know whether military police or other services within the organisation of Serbia's Army have acted on events that are privileged persons, and according to news articles, two members of the Serbian Army have been injured and we are ordered to deliver all the documents we have to the public prosecutor. So the first basic public prosecutor's office in Belgrade. Here's the paper where the D.A. tells us to deliver all the documents in question. In 2014, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/74 The Protector of Citizens again addresses the cabinet of the Minister this time and tells us – we ask you to send us immediately, and no later than 15 days from the day of receipt, the full documentation as all relevant information you have obtained in connection with the event that took place at the time of holding the pride parade, in order to decide on the need to initiate the procedure from your jurisdiction. Convinced that we will achieve legal co-operation in the interest of effective... Here's a letter from the Trustee from the Third. The military security agency received from the defence minister on the basis of a request from the Citizens' Protectors also a memo and an order delivered in the Act of the Citizens' Protectors of both that and that date, with an application for the delivery of the entire documentation. The defence minister is familiar with the act in question and has ordered that the VBA draw up a draft letter of the Citizens' Protector to which he will state the following - that the Ministry of Defence has taken all measures in accordance with its responsibilities regarding the determination of the factual situation, that it is not possible at this time to submit the information as the official investigation is under way. It shall also quote legal provisions and that, after the actual situation has been established and the investigation has been completed, the data and material requested will be submitted to the Protector at his request. Here's also the memo that left the VBA's office. The military security agency corresponds 15.10.2014 to the Guardian of Citizens. He doesn't say at any time – we don't want to give you, but he says – VBA has examined your request for documentation and relevant information on the event that took place in Belgrade on September 28th at the corner of the street, both silently and quietly. Since no specific event has been mentioned in the instrument under the assumption that you are referring to a conflict between the officers and the military police who took place that day, I would like to inform you that the VBA and the Ministry of Defence have taken all the measures of their jurisdiction to determine the facts and circumstances of the event. In the light of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, Article 43(2) of point 1 for the determination of the facts and circumstances of that event, as well as the qualifications of the work, shall be responsible for the competent public prosecutor and shall be authorised to access the data to other authorities and persons. We are not in a position to comply with your request because this would injure the confidentiality of the investigation process that is under way, which is why we suggest you address the competent public prosecutor. That's the answer the VBA gave the Citizens' Protector. We didn't say - no, we don't want to. But we've got a pre-examination procedure going on. The next day, someone's gonna charge us with affecting our investigation. Insulted by receiving on January 12th 2015 Mr. Sasa Jankovic answers VBA – Mr. Cvetkovic, I would like to inform you that I am canceling a preventive check visit to the VBA agreed for November 25th. So he cancels the preventive, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. There's not a single claim we're talking about. I will not make a visit until the Agency re-establishs full respect for its laws of prescribed obligations in individual control procedures, without exception, which are interrupted by the illegal refusal of the Agency to provide this authority with information on the event that took place on the 28th. Then he writes to me where he says the ministry refused. VBA. It is also said that the Ministry of Defense kidnapped the footage and interrogated civilians. Here are the gentlemen, on 2 October 2014, the request of the Commercial Bank. We're not from any place, we're not from any place, we're not from any other place, we're from the law. I'll read the law we're referring to. We sent an official letter to the Commercial Bank and to the Alpha Bank nearby, but that is exactly the problem – what is seen in these videos. That's what other people are interested in. We have sent a letter in which we say - in order to take action from the jurisdiction of the VBA to shed light on the circumstances of the attack on the authorised officials of the military police on the day of that and in the immediate vicinity of your exposition pursuant to Article 286. Law on criminal proceedings "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" 72, 101, 121, 32 from 2013, 45 from 2013 and 55 from 2014, as well as Article 9. The law on VBA and VOA is required to have an authorised face to the official VBAdosts in electronic form of footage of outside cameras from your exposition for 28.9.2014 in a time period of 10 to 15 hours. The same minutes took over the officials of the Commercial Bank and a member of the Military Security Agency. Absolutely and everything is strictly in accordance with the law. No civilian person has been heard, or legitimateized by the Military Security Agency, but that's why the video shows who did it. Now, that's the problem, gentlemen of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia. That's a big problem for some now. Also, we, the Military Security Agency, send a letter to the Public Prosecutor, where we inform the Attorney General that we have a request from the Citizens' Guardian, who is asking us to deliver the information to him, and that we seek their consent under the law, as the law requires, to give us approval that we can deliver the documents to him, because he is the sole authority at this point of the public prosecutor. Before they find me this document, I'd like to show you the DA's office. The Alpha Bank also submits a letter requesting that the footage be delivered to us in accordance with the law and we also record that we have received that CD at this time interval. Here is the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office, and we address it on December 9th, where we say – the Defence Minister addressed the Citizens' Protector asking for information on the September 28th incident in Belgrade, which was attended by members of the gendarmes and military police. The Ministry of Defence refused to act on the request of the Citizens' Protector because he believes that this is the way to violate the provisions of Article 17(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, under which the Protector of Citizens is not authorised to control the work of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court, the courts and the Public Prosecutor. It is our opinion that the purpose of the provision as far ahead is such that the legislator considers that the reduction of data to third parties, and for the conduct of another procedure other than the criminal one, could have a prejudicial character in relation to the work of the judicial authorities, i.e. the competent public prosecutor, who has the original jurisdiction to conduct the criminal proceedings. For, in the sense of the provision laid down in Article 5(1), The law on criminal proceedings, I remind you, is the only criminal prosecutor to be prosecuted for his official duties as a public prosecutor. In that regard, criminal prosecution begins first with a public prosecutor's action or an authorised police officer on the basis of a public prosecutor's request. It has been taken in accordance with this law to check the underlying suspicion that a crime has been committed or that a person has committed a crime. In particular, we are informed by the First General Public Prosecutor's Office that the Public Prosecutor's Office has taken over the case and that the case is with him. We also address them with one letter explaining that the Guardian of Citizens is asking us to seek their consent to the materials. What are materials? These are the two videos we have and these are statements by three members of the military police, the special purpose "Cobra" of their statements made. It's all a little bit. The President of the Cassation Court and the President of the Cassation Court appear after that statement on TV and the letter where we tell him – Mr. President, without affecting the judiciary, give us the consent to give information to the Citizens' Protector, who are the subject of the trial and are at the Attorney General, if you already say we need something to give. We do absolutely according to the law and as the law requires. Then the theme spreads, and we say, "Yes, we listen to union leaders." The only time the Military Security Agency has had proceedings, no listening, because at this point, the Military Security Agency is not listening to anyone, it needs court decisions and co-operation with other security services, and the Military Security Agency has no instruments to listen to anyone, nor has it ever acted in that way without the court's decision and the court's approval, but the only time we have information that the operational president of the union has been done is in 2011. This information that's in my hands was given to the Minister of Defense at the time. Also, I have a written statement that came on behalf of the prime minister, saying that during the last strike in the flag of arms, some politicians were trying to force them to retake the weapons store. And that's a written statement I have here with me. Then it spread to the story about how, for God's sake, politicians are listening. I ordered the defence inspector, appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia, to request evidence from the Citizens' Protector and to carry out control of the Military Security Agency on the basis of this evidence. It is said, "Well, we are not the ones who should give you signs. All right, we were just asking you to give us a way. If you're already saying there's some evidence, give us proof of that, because you brought it to the public. There's been an analysis done, and of all that, I have the Inspector General's record, none of this has been determined. Also, replacement thesis. Then it was said -- the predecessor of the Prime Minister's predecessor, the predecessor set out, saw miracles, towards the home of the prime minister's parents, and there was also the prime minister's brother. Well? Strange wonders! Then he says, "I answered the phone when the former minister of justice was security, but I didn't want it to be public." Now, I'm going to say publicly, the former justice minister under the orders of the then secretary of defense was guarded until 23 December 2014. She had vehicles and was unlawfully given the Department of Defense's house for use for over five years. Then we come to the fact that he has no right to the former defence minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, to the "Cobra" security, because it is necessary to clear the space, it needs to be reduced. Are we wondering who we're all on the basis of the former government's decisions we're guarding right now? How many of them from the former government are we keeping at this point and how much does the Army of Serbia cost? Then it started, of course, a bunch of letters I got from the citizens, but I don't want to talk about it. Gentlemen, these are all data and documents showing that the Military Security Agency is acting solely in accordance with the Constitution and with the law-based decisions. You can see for yourself that all the actions we had at that moment were done in accordance with the law and handed over to the public prosecutor. It is said: the police have sent us documents, and the army will not. And what was sent down, and then it was, I will publish the documents, and they have published only the official notes which the gendarmes received, and you have sent it down. I didn't see any official documents here named "Citizens' Protectors" being rejected by the police. It is not disputed that all of what we have and what we have found in pre-examination stores, if allowed by a public prosecutor, we give to the Guardian of Citizens. There's no problem. I repeat again, from here, from this place, whenever, the control of the Military Security Agency can do to anyone who is legally authorized to do so. I'm absolutely sure all these officers are doing it in accordance with the law. But this is where the intention is different. The intention is to introduce an independent factor that will control the Military Security Agency. The intention is to stop the controls you've started, and the easiest way is this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20883	I thank Minister Gasic. Since we have multiple reports, let me see which MPs have been reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20884	I want ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament to address once more, of course, the honourable MPs, the respected defence minister here, the respected members and representatives of the Serbian Army and, of course, the respected chairman, Mr. Becic, who, in my court, has just once again violated the Rules of Procedure this time, members of 157, 150th and 108th Mr. Becic. These three members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated by the fact that our guest at the National Assembly of Defence Ministers, Mr Gasic, did not warn that he must not come to this National Assembly to strike a heavy blow against our institution and the institution of the Protector of Citizens, which lasted Mr Becic for nearly half an hour, Mr Becic. Instead of precisely answering the questions of the MPs, instead of being a member of the government of the Republic of Serbia to work in its sector, you allowed Mr. Becic, our guest at the National Assembly of the Defence Minister, to continue dealing with the institution of the Protector of Citizens. Mr. Bečiću, the National Assembly is a constitutional category, the Protector of Citizens is a constitutional category, my expectation was that in this 30-minute speech Mr. Gasic, when his speech was already about the actions of the Citizens' Protector, I apologize to Mr. Jankovic for everything I have told you in the past few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20885	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20886	Instead of apologizing, we had a civil defender's reckoning here in our National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20887	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You spoke exactly two minutes. I understand that you are a new MP, that you do not know the Rules of Procedure enough. I also have an understanding and something else, but if you had followed the Assembly's session a little more closely, you would see that before Mr Gasic spoke, another MP, who had something in his speech that I as chairman could conclude, harassing citizens. And it was very important that Mr. Gasic, exactly what you said answered the questions of the MPs, answered all the questions and if they had stayed unresponsible for me, I, as a citizen, would have come out as a citizen, also upset with Mr. Bozovic's speech. I am therefore very grateful to Mr Gasic, who has answered all the questions comprehensively, and I have explained, and I believe that all citizens, too, are very sure that what one of the previous speakers was saying is not true. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from place:Yes). Yeah. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, the head of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group Zoran Babic, a replica of Mr Bozovic's presentation. Injuring the Rules of Procedure, I apologize, Mr. Babice. He's got the advantage of hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising article 96, article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly called the defence minister a guest on the speech of the distinguished counterpart Pavicevic, who proposed the act. So, I believe that, in accordance with Article 96, Mr. Gasic is here to propose the acts that we are considering today and cannot possibly be a guest. Guests can be those who do not explain the act, guests can also be at the gallery, but Mr. Defence Minister cannot possibly be a guest, and thus the dignity of the Assembly has been violated, as the defence minister under Article 96 says – the proposer of the act, i.e. the authorised representative of the group of promoters of the act who gets the word when he asks for it and does not refer to it as a restriction on the duration of the presentation. So Mr. Gasic could speak for 30 minutes. He's an act promoter, he can't be a guest, and this is not the time that the Rules of Procedure actually violates the one he shouldn't break, and this is Mr. Pavicevic with his frequent advertising. I warn you again that, in future, such MPs should be denied time that is unauthorized, or inappropriately advertised by the Rules of Procedure, without prejudice to this Rules of Procedure. I'm not asking you to vote on this injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20889	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. You are a longtime MP and have an understanding for MPs who are not yet familiar with the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Marko Djurisic. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20890	Thank you. I think the injured member of 106 is saying that the speaker can only talk about the subject. We have now heard that the minister is not a guest, but that he is a speaker. In that case he could only talk about the agenda point. If he needed to answer some questions that appeared here in the debate today, then he could use the replica, like all of us, because this Rules of Procedure refers to him and try to explain in two minutes what he has to explain to us for 26 minutes, because we here in this debate need to be equal. If the minister spoke for 26 minutes as a replica, please allow us to at least respond 26 minutes to everything he has brought here, which has no contact with the agenda point. The points of the agenda were amendments to the Law on Defence and Amendments of the Law on the Army, that these topics had appeared, that we were talking about them and the right to replica had a minister for two minutes, not 26 minutes now at six o'clock when the highest ratings of the Assembly, only now the minister remembered to take out papers here, only those who fit him and that the citizens represented only one side of the story. There will be a Security Control Board, so the other side of Mr. Secretary will be heard on it, and you're not the only one who has anything to say in this case and in all those 26 minutes you haven't answered the question I asked you in the morning at 11:00 when I was talking. Who signed the order to be with the Prime Minister's brother when there was an incident?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20891	Mr. Djurishic, I sometimes wonder if these are two parties or one? You have neither spoken nor asked questions, you are complaining why the minister has answered the questions of any other parliamentary groups, all of which I do not understand. Maybe I don't have enough understanding. Mr. Djurisic, I am obliged to explain to you why, and I don't think that further explanation is necessary and you understand perfectly that you wanted to abuse the Rules of Procedure and report to the Rules of Procedure to answer who I don't know, I don't know what questions. Do you want the assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. Mr. Pavicevic, you answer that when I spoke to Mr. Djurisic, I abused the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20892	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members and representatives of the Serbian Army, respected Minister Gasic and respected chairman of Becic, I believe that just before, here, just before Mr Đurisic was presented, and especially after his presentation, you injured members 27 to 33. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic. I think this last violation of the Rules of Procedure in these few members is actually an opportunity to remind you of my initiative this morning, Mr. Becic. It seems to me that your attention has given you a little bit of a break, that you don't have enough concentration to chair a session of the National Assembly because all day long, Mr. Becic, you're chairing...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20893	That's enough, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the scene: Why did you turn off my microphone? Please turn on my microphone. It hasn't been two minutes yet. It's not enough, I haven't used all my time to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's enough. According to the Rules of Procedure, you are entitled to up to two minutes as long as the chairman, and in those two minutes I can understand what you wanted to say in 30 seconds, and I can wait two minutes for you to explain it well enough and convince me that I have broken the Rules of Procedure. Now I've already seen your intention to abuse the Rules of Procedure, to report to the Rules of Procedure... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: Please I have an addition. ) Don't be like that, you're a professor, I believe you're not used to it, and you're not used to it with students, so you get used to it at the amphitheatre. So I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pavicevic. Thank you for calling. We're moving on. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20894	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Rules of Procedure, article 107, and Article 96, paragraph 2 have been violated because counterparts Pavicevic and Mr Djurisic abuse the document they wrote, which they created. I will invite them to take a look at Article 96(2), where it is said - the Prime Minister and members of the government get their word when they ask for it and do not refer to them as a restriction on the duration of the exposure. It was nice when they wrote and thought they'd stay in power for the rest of their lives, until they did, and then when we respect this Rulesman, for God's sake, it's against the rules. I thank you, Mr. Gasic, for the answers you gave, for the evidence you provided to the National Assembly. I know that because of this evidence, because of these papers, because in these days and months, for years, the Military Security Agency, the Ministry of Defence, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has worked in accordance with the laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20895	Mr. Granny, let me just...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20896	Mr. Becic, let me just finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20897	Let me only, in order not to be misused by the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to the replica I have just wanted to give you and now I am giving you two minutes to present Mr Bozovic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20898	I'll use it. As for Mr Bozovic, it is said, may I ask you Mr. Chairman or Mr. Pavicevic when I can get the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20899	You see, Mr. Pavicevic is trying to make sure he's entitled to speak in the National Assembly, but I'm still referring him to the Rules of Procedure who needs to study again, to see that the chairman decides whether he has any right to reply, the right to appear, at which point he can report, so you've got the word, Mr. Babić, to return the time from the beginning. Here, come in, you have two minutes, a replica of Mr. Bozovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20900	I think the largest number of questions, that almost all the questions that have been asked today, including questions from Mr Balša Bozovic, Mr Gasic gave answers. I will answer only one question, and that is that SNS is like the biggest party dependent on research. Addiction is a disease. Addiction is one hard word that has been used here, but then I will use the same jargon, unfortunately, because with the same jargon you have to answer to, to understand and hear you, then what is the DS of Mr. Bozovic's when he holds power in Vojvodina for 15 years with incomplete 6% support? Is that a haughtiness addiction? What an addiction it is to criticise your Labour Act, so jagged, happy that something bad is heard about your country, if it is not an addiction to hate, how to define addiction when your party falls apart, divides, rips, factions, when the main board looks like a battle scene, and you keep looking at other people's backyards and you try to make conflicts where they are not, conflicts on the relationship between the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, but this is more what Mr Bozovic said to me, not as an addiction, but a crisis, because every addict, when he is left without what he is used to, crosses, without defiance, without hatred, without hatred, without all those thieves and all that they've been exposed to for the past 12 years, is the relationship of a man who crosses and the political options that he crosses.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20901	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Bozovic, you have the right to reply, but before I give you my word, Mr. Pavicevic is reporting again after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: Replica, at the presentation of Minister Gasic and Bojan Pajtic was mentioned twice. Mr. Sutanovac, the above mentioned DS, allow me, you will be pleased when you allow me to finish the sentence. Mr Sutanovac, the DS has been mentioned, you are an authorised DS representative at today's session, and if you and Mr Bozovic have come forward, you have the advantage because you are an authorised representative and you will get the word. Just be patient, Mr. Pavicevic says what the Rules of Procedure is about. Please, Mr. Toskovic, don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20902	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected members and representatives of the Army of Serbia, Honored Minister Gasic and the Honorable Chairman of Mr Becic, you have just once again for who knows which time, in my opinion, violated the Rules of Procedure, and this time in Articles 109, 110, 111 and 112, Mr Becic, and I will try to explain in two minutes why I believe you have injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? When Mr. Babic spoke earlier, Mr. Becic, he said that Mr. Djurisic and I wrote the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20903	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. You've said enough that you've explained to me why you think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, that's enough. The key is that Mr. Babic mentioned Mr. Djurisic and you. Mr Babić said this in the context that you belong to the parliamentary group or you belonged or are now a member of the parliamentary group that was written by the Rules of Procedure and that is the basis. Mr. Babic didn't think for a moment and I didn't understand him so personally that you personally wrote this Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I did not write. )......................................................................................................... but the parliamentary group that Mr. Djurisic belonged to at the time, and now you belong and were on the election list, Mr. Pavicevic, you, so I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? Yes, thank you. The right to replica has Balša Bozovic, I apologize, first Mr. Sutanovac, but sign up when you're looking for a word. Mr. Sutanovac, a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20904	I must say that I do not share the enthusiasm of colleagues who had just applauded and joyful and joyful, because I think this was an extremely sad moment for both the Serbian Parliament and the Ministry of Defence. There's never been a single minister here for 30 minutes, it's never happened that we have a situation in a nervous manner, inspired by the speech of the Justice Minister to us who claim to be having affairs. What's the affair?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20905	Mr. Sutanovac, you have received a word and a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20906	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20907	Minister Gasic didn't mention you for a moment to get the opportunity to replicate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20908	For a second, he mentioned Bojan Pitiæ, by name and last name, and I should have two replicas, one to Mr. Gasic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20909	Here you go. If he has offended your president, whom you respect, please proceed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20910	It's not funny, I'm just asking you to give me the time to reset those half-minutes. So, Mr. Gasic, the only thing you could convince us was that there was a problem, you said just now that in 2011, VBA was following, working, noding, and you've been in power for three full years, and what have you been waiting for, and why haven't you sanctioned it? Why did you allow it? I know, you'll do it easily. Mr. Gasic, I have a complete understanding of your position and I know that this chair isn't a little comfortable, that it's hard to be in it, but I see you've gathered manners that don't go along with that position. You just waved some papers that we don't also know are official notes, are they degreeed as secrecy, are they not, is it possible that the VBA is sending a report to a non-confidential minister that you just showed here? And I would have believed all of that, but I would have believed you if you hadn't done something that wasn't allowed. You said, Mr. Shutanovac in manners...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20911	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20912	... The clicker's got something on Twitter. Mr. Minister, Nenad Dejanovic, a member of your party's executive board and the board of directors hangs on Facebook goldsmiths with your character. Your party member hung it up. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20913	Mr. Sutanovac, you spoke for two and a half minutes. I listened very carefully and tried to hear it spoken by you, Mr Pajtic, because you received a replica for mentioning President Pajtic, President of the DS. In your two-and-a-half-minute address, I've never heard of it – my President, Mr. Pajtic. Replica, Mr. Balša Bozovic, for mentioning. Here you go. Replication to Mr. Babic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20914	Also proud of President Pititic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20915	You can't, Mr. Bozovic. You are not an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20916	Can I be proud?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20917	Mr Bozovic, please, you have not been given a word based on the mention of the Prime Minister of the Vojvodina. You got the word for mentioning your name and name. Please explain in two minutes a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20918	And Mr. Babic and I both know what the role of the MPs is. The Guardian of Citizens has been elected unanimously in this assembly. The duty of me, as well as Mr Babic, is in front of Minister Gasic that we defend the independent institution of the Protector of Citizens and in this case Sasa Jankovic, as he plays the case at the post. When there's someone else, we'll defend that someone else. That's one thing. The second thing, Mr. Gasic said about discussing my criticism of changes and supplementing that everything he as a military secret as a minister has no obligation to respond to the independent institutions seeking that information. Isn't it? You said that because of your internal regulations, many things can become a military secret, and so can listening to opposition leaders. You can say yes, and it's a military secret, so then I don't want to answer either the Trustee or the Citizens' Protector to the information they've been asked of the Ministry of Defense. We're only interested in one thing, and you've been talking 25 minutes and a little longer about it, and we haven't been able to figure out what you're hiding, Minister Gasic, so you don't want to co-operate with independent institutions in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20919	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20920	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several questions I have to answer. Mr. Bozovicu, I was a folk MP at a time when Mr. Sasa Jankovic was elected Protector of Citizens. When you tell me we're hiding something, I can see it as an insult for reasons we're not hiding anything. We just say, all the documentation we have, which is the subject of the investigation, has been handed over to the public prosecutor. It's an old law. Here is the secretary of the ministry who wrote those answers, which is the magistrate of legal science, who has been a senior military prosecutor for over 20 years. He wrote the answer. If the D.A. tells us you can give the Guardian to the citizens, there's no problem. These are three statements from our Cobra Special Unit members, who were on site, and there are footage of two cameras from "Comerial Bank" and "Alpha Bank", taken over by an official memo, with a record of employees in "Comerial" and "Alpha Bank" with time intervals and was clearly defined by the law what we can do. It's obvious you've got a lot of things confused here. It's not weird. You didn't serve an army or a civilian, not like this. It's no wonder you don't understand the terms and how the military police act. As for Mr Djurisic, I signed a security act based on the Security Service Co-ordination Bureau on the protection of the then defence minister and, below, Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. After that, the VBA acted with an assessment of the protection of the protected face. After that, the military police brought in their acts, issued a warrant. Directly, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic's security manager has made a plan for an engagement where every task has been clearly defined by every member of the Cobra Special Unit, who is directly in the security of Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. Since you just had a question about who signed it, I signed it. He was a brother. They left that day. Just before that event, the prime minister and I returned, I'll remind you, from the flooded area of Kladov and they were supposed to go to lunch with their parents, which is close by. What's the sin they found on the street? What's a sin? I signed it? I have equally signed an act on the protection of your president who, after so many years, is no longer the president of the state and is provided by the Cobra. Me, no one else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20921	I thank Minister Gasic. Replica, head of SNS parliamentary group Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20922	I'm sorry that Mr. Bozovic came out, because I'm sure he would have answered the question I'm going to ask. What annual report of the Citizens' Protectors, whatever his name, was considered and adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by 2012? None. Since the introduction of Manchester into our system, no report has had a debate in the National Assembly has experienced adoption. Who then hides something, those who used those reports just to fill out the archive or assembly majority in which the SNS participated, who voted and I was there with you, Mr. Gasic, when we voted for Mr. Sasa Jankovic and who we adopted those reports and discussed them, sometimes hard in this National Assembly? Then who's hiding it? The ones who humiliated the Manchester by asking him to send a report, and they neither adopted it, nor debated it. The law must be respected. The law also applies to the Protector of Citizens, to the People's MPs, to the Ministers. The law applies to all citizens equally. As more is the prosecution's address, not the Ministry of Defence, so I think for Mr. Jankovic, if he feels insecure, and I don't want any citizens of the Republic of Serbia to feel insecure, not the media address. The address is public authorities, if it has such knowledge or feels insecure. Only if we all respect the institutions, only if we all respect the state of Serbia, will we build a decent and orderly state, not in the way that we will now be able to remember from the opposition to some subsequent ones that the reports are necessary to adopt or motivate the answers to be sought elsewhere, not in those where they should be sought.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20923	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica. Mr. Djurishich, whose exposure? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Mr. Minister's presentation. You have no chance of replicating Mr. Secretary's presentation. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: He talked about me personally and about the party president. I know he mentioned your name and name. It's not in a negative context. If you think the president of your party is mentioned in a negative context, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20924	Thank you. From what I understand, the minister's answer to my question is that members of the military police and the Cobra were found by chance next to the prime minister's brother that day. So there was no estimate that his safety was compromised. They all went to Mom's for lunch together. That's how I understood it, but it would be good for the establishment of a Security Control Committee, and for God's sakes, the Defence and Home Affairs Committee to bring these things to an end and see if that's the conclusion, as I've now understood the minister. Also, in order not to remain unclear to Serbian citizens, my party's president has twice been elected in democratic free elections for the president of the Republic. That's why, by the estimate, I suppose, the authorities have found that he needs security, not because the president of one opposition party, because as such he couldn't safely get any care from this state, because neither can we get a word here. But, as the former president of this country, elected in the free elections, twice for the President of the Republic, by the assessment of the competent authorities, I assume, not by your personal will, you have no right to do so. You have the right to determine whether anyone needs to be given security and then sign that order. It's not your personal will. I guess that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20925	Thank you. I don't know if you've spoken or anyone else since you say you have no right to speak. I thank you again for not misusing the Rules of Procedure, and in the second part of your line you mentioned the name of the party president. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20926	Thank you. The former president of the Republic of Serbia, under the Law on the President, has the right to one escort, driver and one car, and that is undeniable. After asking a question from your side, in the past ten days many have wondered – why "Cobras" provide the prime minister? For the degree of threat, I don't want to talk about him, it's also a strict secret. But there is no question that the president, what belongs to him under the law, security of the former president needs, must or may use. It's not a question at all. There are other things that are going on here, so I'm asking you not to discuss it here in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20927	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a replica of Mr Babic's presentation. (Zoran Babic, from the post: How is there an authorised representative? () Other MPs are right when they comment on me. We'll wait for Mr. Sutanovac to come out. Now you can have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20928	The card is not there, even if Mr. Sutanovac is present.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20929	But when Mr. Babic got his word, Mr. Djukanovic wasn't in the O.R. We need to respect the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20930	Thank you. There are a few things we don't need to comment on at all, but some of us have to react to. First, there is not a single law that is above the Serbian Constitution, so it was the Criminal Procedure Act. There's not a single prosecution that can make it impossible for the Citizens' Protector to reach the VBA report. There is absolutely no procedural, no legal-material possibility for anyone to say – we handed it over to the prosecution, and until they say, we... So it's an act that is directly against the law and constitutional order in this country. To be clear, we can interpret it differently. I'm telling you that's the situation. Why? Because the procedure level is shifted to what is definitely and evidenceable and clear obligation of the Authority in this case. If the government's authority refuses, taking out the D.A.'s activity, it's a legal evac. That's the first thing. Another thing, me or anyone in this room doesn't need to discuss whether someone's report has been adopted or not. He didn't adopt. It is good that he was adopted later, but this is not at all the subject of this debate in any way, but the question of why this man cannot work now in 2015, filed a report, did not submit a report. That's the darkness. Did he take it before? It's not, and I'm saying it's totally fair. Tell me now, gentlemen, what are you doing? Now what the citizens are interested in is what you're going to do or what you've done. Zero. So, that, not if anyone has as much as a percentage. Those percentages you're throwing at are a bad boomerang in a political sense. Don't take it out without a sense of responsibility and honor, because it will come back to you politically.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20931	Time. In order for me as chairman to be able to proceed impartially with the work of the National Assembly, I must now make a statement, because as a member of the Security Control Committee, and there are my colleagues from the opposition, when we go into control whether military intelligence services or BIA, we always have an objection if some cases are under way and the investigation isn't over, that we have restrictions on the control of these cases. Without any control, we can control the items where the work is done and there's no problem with that. Mr Stefanovic, I believe that when some MPs rightly comment that cases that are under way and where the investigation is not completed or where the prosecution or some other authorities that are currently in the case are in the process, they have the right to dispute that certain information is available to the public, because there is no obstruction of the investigation. As a member of the Security Control Committee, I wonder if I'm thinking straight. I'd like to get an answer to that, so I can continue to hold a session of the National Assembly if I can assess whether anyone has a right or not. Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Babic, a replica of Mr Stefanovic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20932	I am grateful to the previous speaker because he confirmed my words, that no report by the Ombudsman, the Citizens' Protector, was adopted until 2012, was discussed in the National Assembly and that in this way the former regime showed disrespect for procedures, according to independent state bodies, thus disrespecting the Citizens' Protector. The question has been asked – what now? I will respond very early, using Mr. Saša Jankovic's argument, given at the session of the Administrative Committee, and I am grateful for that honesty, which is that 94% of last year's delays were sent, Mr. Protector's suggestion that the state authorities responded in 2014 to 94% of the suggestions of the Citizens' Protectors. Where's more respect? Those who haven't even adopted the report in the National Assembly or us and these governments and state bodies who have responded to 94% of all the suggestions of the Ombudsman and made a correction? There's a huge difference between acceptance and understanding and what was before compared to what is now. I don't see anything controversial about the fact that the Department of Defense has sent and informed the Citizens' Protector that the address is the Public Prosecutor's Office. I guess the prosecution, or the judiciary, is an independent branch of power. I guess that's how we accept it and understand it. What is the problem with the senior public prosecutor saying – yes, give the material you have or deliver it yourself? What's the matter with that? What is the mistake of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What is the mistake of the Serbian Army? It's a mistake that they did it by law. I beg you, Mr. Gasic, you and your associates continue to act by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20933	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20934	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't see any problem, except for a specific case. So, the doors of the Ministry of Defense, the doors of the VBA, the VOA, are open 24 hours a day and none of us intend to deny him any information. But this is a process in progress, and we, interpreting the positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia, responded as we believe and how other authorities have told us that we have to act. That at that time it was the intention to go over the papers and to make someone, for God's sake, not to get in control, see, it also says in this letter to the Guardian of Citizens, January 12th: "If you don't provide us with the information that you own about the event that took place on January 28th. 09. In 2014, in Belgrade, the cancellation of the control visit will be properly notified to the public." What is it now? I don't understand. A threat? Who is defending anyone at this time, and the Guardian of Citizens and the Trustee of Information and All Independent Authorities, to come into control of the VBA? But someone needs to do this, as they call it, an affair, to make them discuss when, how, how, how, how many people keep Alexander Vukic, where he keeps him, where he goes, how he goes, why he goes to secure a place where he could have been a bomb before the meeting he had at the Crown Plaza or some other hotel or other place, is the need that's being cleared up here, and to protect someone else. You saw it yourself in a pre-examination procedure, and it's not right to show the footage where the cop tripped, and he says he hit him with his foot. But no one can see that. But someone's making conclusions. I ask you, Mr Stefanovic, absolutely the doors of the VBA and the Ministry of Defence are open to the Protector of Citizens, and do not at any time express any doubt that we will deny any independent authority at any time to control the work, legality of the work and respect of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia by all the structures of the Ministry of Defence and the Army of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20935	I thank Minister Gasic. The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20936	Mr. Chairman, I was ordered to prepare for discussion almost an hour and a half ago. If I was a sportsman, I'd be overheating by now. For more than an hour, the debate in this congregation has nothing to do with the agenda. I understand that the subject is intriguing, current and significant. But it's being discussed differently in the Assembly, at least I think. Either with the presence of the representatives of the actors involved, or the Assembly forming a polling committee, the polling committee examines all this and then goes before the Assembly. In this way, the Rules of Procedure are designed and left with the possibility of the chairman, I am sorry that he has left the current chairman, but I will say so, the chairman is scheduled to be able to stop replicating. The chairman almost an hour and a half didn't think to do it. The Rules of Procedure also envisioned that the Assembly would return to the topic in the debate, and I prepared an exhibition on the subject. The Rules of Procedure also provide for the assumption that the next participant in the debate, or MP, will have something to say about the subject under discussion. I'm not conceited, and I don't think I'd say I don't know how smart, but I've decided to make a precedent as an MP, because no one's done it so far since I've been an MP. And not because the Assembly is going to lose much because they won't hear, for God's sake, my smart thoughts, but because it's to draw attention to us here in the Assembly that this debate by any chairman can't and cannot be led. I'm asking the chairman to take a stenogram and analyze it, see how he ran this part of the session. In that name, as my revolt on such a thing and the desire to no longer be so, I give up the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20937	Thank you. Mr Kovacevic, do you want me, as chairman of the Democratic Law of the People's MPs who are allowed by the Rules of Procedure to appear on the agenda, to appear in replicas? I would very much like, like you, to want the MPs to talk about the subject, not to report for replicas, and to have this debate closed in a few hours. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure, which the previous majority has brought, allows MPs to report to the Rules of Procedure, to appear in the replica of two minutes, to replicate and speak of whatever they want to talk about, and here, as chairman, we are unable to deny them what they want in two minutes of replication, as well as to report for the injury of the Rules of Procedure and to abuse it for reporting and for wanting to replicate it. If you make a proposal now and the Assembly declares that this Rules of Procedure is being put out of force, and if that is not possible in business, I will be very happy to do this to you, and I will not allow MPs to appear and speak according to the law on the replica. The word has a National MP, Sinisa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20938	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army, I think our citizens, following parliament's work today, are a little confused. Why are they confused? Because citizens have great confidence in the Serbian Army and the Serbian Army has always been respected and strongly supported as the most important factor in the defence and security of the state. Today we are talking about two very important laws for each of Serbia's citizens. It seems to me that at some point we have stepped down quite a bit and entered some other topics that I do not say are not important and should not be discussed, but we should discuss when we decide and when we have the relevant material to discuss. Serbia has never led a conquerive and hegemonistic policy, but because it is at a crossroads of important roads and different interests of many conquering forces it has always given attention to its army, its strength, its morals and its equipment. At the time of the SFRY, we were one of the five most capable armies, always ready for defense, not for attacks on other countries and nations. But then in many ways politics changed in the region. During the 1990s, especially during Serbia's bombing, our army has shown how morally powerful it is, how capable it is to deal with a much superior enemy. I would ask fellow Members of Parliament not to earn, for I have not given anyone in this House a single word, and sometimes I support what they earn. Thank you. The Socialist Party of Serbia has always, even now, given recognition to all those who were on the defender of freedom whenever it was necessary, especially to those soldiers, officers and citizens who gave their lives in defence of the people and the state. Unfortunately, as it is known after 2000, the army was weakened, equipment sold out or sold out as old iron. I can't help but mention one example from my Kruševac, and Defence Minister Mr. Gasic, probably remembers, when one of the military ministers came to a dedicated production factory, which was made during sanctions and NATO bombing, in a way attends its destruction. But the silver reactor for chemical synthesis was destroyed. There are people here who are from this profession and know what this reactor could produce, how much it cost, and for what purposes it could be used in peacetime conditions. There is, however, a time when we need to strengthen the army again, to define its new tasks in the defence system, to specify the tasks it has in peace, and they are growing. Of course, the military has a priority to defend the country. That is why I want to praise the solution that determines that the Serbian Army acts not only when the country's borders or entire territory are threatened, but when one part of its territory is threatened. Amendments to the Defence Act are more comprehensive solutions which define more precisely the role of defence forces, procedures for the adoption and application of defence documents and the functioning of the army in emergency situations where natural disasters and disasters can lead to a population. I will also look back on just a few questions, considering that my colleagues have spoken a lot. As a very good legal solution, I point out that they are much more precisely arranged and circumstances in which logistics support of the Serbian Army is provided not only in the realization of the operational needs of the Serbian Army in the maintenance of arms and military equipment, the supply of arms and military equipment and other means, but also in situations related to emergency situations caused by elemental disasters and natural disasters. In the last year, we had catastrophic floods whose consequences couldn't be resolved so quickly and efficiently that the army didn't engage. I therefore welcome the precision and roles of the military through the provisions they say – that the military participates in both planning and building, solving, removing and maintaining infrastructure facilities, transporting and transporting people and resources, health care, veterinary protection, safety and health at work, protecting the environment, protecting against fires and explosions. It is obvious that these legal solutions came from the experience of our army in last year's floods, and it is good that the organisation and operation of the army follow the needs of life. In particular, I would like to highlight a new legal solution under which the Ministry of Defence will keep records of the dead, missing, wounded, captured and murdered members of the Armed Forces, former SFRY, for the period 1991-1992, and records of missing and killed members of the Yugoslav Army in the territory of AP KIM 1998. - 1999, to issue papers on the exercise of rights based on participation in armed conflicts and combat acts. I just want to clarify one question, I think we got it all wrong, because we in the SPS fully support not only when it comes to the military, but also all the other state institutions, that everything that state institutions and state enterprises can do for their needs and do. I just want to support Minister Gasic, when it comes to making a variety of decorations, IDs and all that it takes for the Serbian Army to be done at the Bureau for making our state's bills. This solution is now being joined by states to those institutions that are of interest to the state and its citizens. For reasons listed by my colleagues, for reasons I have also said, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support the Law on Defence and the Law on Serbia's Army, which we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20939	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. He's not here. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20940	The Honorable Chairman of the Generals, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, if today in this country they were to ask the citizens who they trust most, both in this and in the previous state and in the previous one, if they were to ask them who they trust and who they trust most, they would say in the SPC and the Army of Serbia. On the one hand, because the Serbs always had the spirituality and the world of freedom, but on the other hand, because the army, for years, decades, as well as throughout the century, has earned that trust with the citizens of Serbia. Then she came in 1999 and our army resisted NATO's aggression for three months, courageously defended her country and her nemonet and respected Serbian Constitution, but when all this was over and when the fifth October chaos and post-five-octo-octobaric chaos came, when this assembly was burned and robbed, and also post-five-octoctobaric when the whole country was robbed and burned, everything had to be destroyed and destroyed, and so did the Army of Serbia. It began to reform after that 2000, and the first reform was to introduce civil service to the military, so that the descendants of former famous fighters would now serve as an old man in nursing homes, and instead of a rifle, carry geese and shovels by wards in hospitals. And so it should in some way embarrass that tradition on the one hand, and on the other hand it was meant to destroy a complete arsenal of weapons and feet and melt and sell all the machinery and what was worth in the army. Third thing, no less important, it's overnight to retire all generals, colonels, serious professionals, experts and true patriots. All of this ended and a new reform took place in which all of this was to be done on three missions. The real mission was the protection of our territory, the second protection of citizens and peoples against natural disasters and the third mission of our army's participation in peace operations. The first two were weakened, and the second one was seen in these floods, that the army's engineering units were completely destroyed, decimated. Engineering units that used to be up to the size of an engineering regiment were reduced to a small number of people with equipment that was completely torn apart. Yet, these people have thus weakened the demands and the difficult situation that the flood has made and have succeeded in the superhuman efforts to save everything that could be saved in a given situation. The third thing is the participation of our army in international operations, in which our army has proved to be honorably defending the country's reputation, since the beginning of the VMA, primarily in health, and later extending it to other operational units. In addition to the engineering that was so destroyed, I want to pay attention and warn that the collapse of an institution that was the country's reputation and pride, which is VMA. Today, it collapses that surgery that is an impact needle and academia is reduced to a general hospital, not to what is in the health system a physical institution. It happens that VMA for a longer period of time does not have the basic means, that there is no hydrogen for wound bandages, that there is no barium for irrigography, that there is no mask, that the number of intrachospital infections is increasing more than ever, that human policy is guided by many quality doctors, teachers who are respected in the world, that people who cannot adequately respond to the demands and responsibilities of the given place would come to their places. There's a lot of things, and I'm not going to talk about clinics now because of the reputation of this institution and what's going on in all the clinics of VMA, but I hope that in the coming period, that this multi-annual collapse of a respected institution will stop and we won't let that happen, because it's the pillar and the basis of our health care. What I'm trying to say is, there were words here and someone started complaining about the unions in the army, that their role was reduced. As far as I'm concerned, they shouldn't even exist. Whoever wants to be a soldier, let him be a soldier, and whoever wants to do the union fight, let him do the union fight. The army has clear rules of service. The military has a clear system of command, responsibility and leadership. The army has its own rules to work by, to protect the constitutional order, the country, to defend the people, and that's clear. The other thing I want to say is that soldiers can be accepted by contract after nine years in a permanent working relationship. That's good, because by quality criteria, no competition can determine people who, if necessary, can fill certain places. The third thing I want to say is that standardization of defense is certainly very important, then, that the military use plan should be separated from the defence plan. Everyone needs to do their job. It's too serious that all these documents could get mixed up, so everyone could get to them. Therefore, by analysing all this, I can only welcome the adoption of these two laws, to say that we, the Military Act, will certainly improve the efficiency of the military and improve the unity of the defence of these new legal solutions. So, according to the army, you serve the people still, that's your social role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20941	The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20942	We have two very important and important laws on today's agenda, the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army. It's a long debate, which started this morning at 10:00 and something. In this debate, which has been going on for several hours, MPs of the former regime have not presented any serious reason, other than criticism for criticism, to challenge this law, or these two draft laws. Of course there is no doubt that in the voting day these proposals will be adopted. These are extremely serious laws, which apply to society as a whole, not only to members of the Republic of Serbia's Army, but to society as a whole and to the environment in society as a whole, and to the expectations that citizens have. The participation of the Serbian Army in a country's life like Serbia is very important and it was primarily seen in the emergency situation that we had in half last year, where citizens, however or whatever they were saying, and not just citizens, all had the opportunity to make sure who was who could help and who was the helper and who would help the citizens in any way, which is certainly the Army of the Republic of Serbia, and simply no one ever questioned it. Such a Law on the Army will make it clear what is expected of them, what is what they have rights, and what is their obligation, which is fundamentally important for this law that introduces order in those details where the law of 2007 has failed here. We've had plenty of time to spot mistakes and make these mistakes right by this very proposal to amend the Military Act and the Defence Act. I have had the privilege of being Deputy Chief of Staff for Emergency General Ljubisa Dikovic and believe that, given his work, the work of the entire Ministry and the work of the Government, citizens are convinced that in the event of emergency situations and any other dangers, maximum measures and all that is necessary for the safety of citizens will be at the best possible level. That it's easy, it's not. But whatever the case, I've said it before, but I have to repeat for the sake of the citizens, that the truth about the floods, the emergency situation and the whole truth about the operation of the Republic of Serbia is just one and certainly that this Ministry, this Government, and this National Assembly is just insisting on that truth. These affairs that are mentioned and which are the subject of today's debates, or today's debates, are simply not on the agenda of these two laws, but also when it comes to it, the truth of which is, of course, only one, and this is exactly what the Ministry and this government will bring this truth to their citizens. Publicity and transparency in the work are precisely a feature of this ministry, this government and this National Assembly. All MPs, it doesn't matter if the position or opposition, whether they're ex, beings and futures, are very well aware of what the role of the military is and I think it's unserious to dispute the importance of a law like this, and there's no serious argument that would challenge the adoption of this law. Support for the adoption of this law to explain with a story – if we adopt our two amendments or if we adopt our amendments, we will vote, this bill signed by the Prime Minister is certainly in line with the interests of the citizens, the interests of the Serbian Army itself and the interests of the Ministry and the simple specificities that Serbia has as a state are embedded in these two draft laws. Throughout history, the military has shown and proved what and how it can and how it can, and these laws will only give even greater strength and even greater certainty that it is simply feasible. In this government, there are people who, in accordance with those promises from the establishment of the government, propose laws in all areas, and this law will certainly give stability, and guarantee that this bill, which will be on the agenda and which will be adopted, quality and that, most importantly, protect citizens' interests and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, is guaranteed by the Chief of Staff, General Dikovic and Minister of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, Gasic and, of course, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, who signed these proposals. What you should say, and I'm really going to bring an end to my exposure, given that the predecessors have brought a lot before me, is that the defense of freedom and the defence of the state is certainly a privilege, honor and obligation for all of us. What will certainly be, whether this law has touched it or not, in the event of any dangers and emergency situations and others, God forbid, the dangers of war, we will all be there to help our country. We all have the right to defend freedom and to defend our country. The medals were mentioned and the medals were mentioned. Of course it's something that needs to remain in the realm of seriousness, and there's really no room for some improvisations. Of course, the military of the Republic of Serbia must carry the prefix of the Air Force. Among other things, the air force is not flying because of mosquitoes, but to be prepared to defend the Republic of Serbia in the event of a war threat. Once again, I thank you for such a nice proposal and a quality bill for guests from the Ministry and I support all MPs to support such a quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20943	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20944	I thank the chairman. Dear guests from the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen MPs, are ahead of us to amend and supplement two extremely important laws for the Republic of Serbia and for its construction – the Law on Defence and the Law on the Army of Serbia. The basic reasons for the amendments to both these laws are to align with changes in the legal system and to remove the shortcomings observed by practical application of the current legal provisions. What is the goal is to function more effectively in the defence system and more effectively in commanding and managing Serbia's military, as well as what is very important in co-operation between the civil and military sectors. The defence system guarantees that independence should guarantee the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, then protection of national identity, internal security in every sense, life protection, health protection, environmental protection, and the preservation of regional stability. As the protected house is usually not the target of thieves, so it is with a country that has good defenses. The adoption of these laws will allow for further development of defence institutions to adequately respond to all challenges, risks and all threats. It is known to all that in the times behind us, especially in those times of war, there have been cases of disagreement because of overlapping functions and competencies in the Army of the Republic of Serbia, or problems under whose control. These amendments to the Law on Defence will more precisely define and regulate the authority of the president of the Republic of Serbia, the government, the ministry and the General Staff in defence. Therefore, I would just like to point out, for the sake of the public, that the defence system is governed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, just like this by the law, and then by the President of the Republic which commands the military in war and in peace, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which determines and manages the defence policy, the defence minister who runs Serbia's Army and the Chief of Staff and the Serbian Army elders who command Serbia's military in accordance with, of course, the laws and acts of the supposed. We've heard some of the laws and I'll just mention a few of them. As far as the Law on Defence is concerned, it is prohibited for military persons to join and attend political events, also the right of professional members to a union organisation, but this is conditioned as we have heard several times, not to endanger the operational and functional capabilities of the military and to reveal important data for the military, as well as that, of course, Serbian Army members do not have the right to strike. As far as the Law on the Serbian Army is concerned, some newspapers have been introduced, the provisions are more clearly defined, both termologically and in terms of regulation and jurisdiction, then issues related to the specific military service and service under difficult conditions have been settled, and we have repeatedly heard what is in the discussions whether the name of vision, aviation and anti-aircraft defence adds the word “war” in order to continue the tradition and continuity of this vision. The changes were said in more detail, people who are more of a profession will likely speak, and I would refer to Serbia's Army in the previous period, especially since 2012, to this day, because in the past three years, the Serbian Army has increased its reputation at a high speed among Serbian citizens and is regaining strong support for citizens. Many laws have been passed in this Assembly, especially since we are in session, means military participation in multinational operations, numerous co-operation agreements and joint exercises, arms trade and military equipment, co-operation in the area of defence, and therefore Serbia's Army of Peace in the world today, because participation in multinational peace operations has presented the readiness and certainty of the Serbian Army in this matter. I would like to point out once again that during an unfounded increase in wages and pensions in 2008, it was deprived of professional and active military persons as well as pensioners, so they are now perhaps double damaged by this reduction, but we have never heard that they have complained, but are still working on the highest level of their tasks. These were the years when the military system was completely collapsing, when active military officials were mass-retired and top experts in Serbia's military system and their numerous rights were denied, as well as housing care. Fortunately, this unfortunate time after the Serbian Army has been far behind us and since 2012, the systematic collapse of the Serbian Army has been halted. I just want to mention a few significant, most significant beautiful situations, but unfortunately the one where the Serbian Army has found themselves in these two and a half years. So, in 2012, certainly many of us will not forget the airing of Batajnica in connection with the 100th anniversary of Serbian aviation. All military forces participated in this airing, at the same time presented the new domestic school plane "Lasta", in 2013 held a arms fair – a partner with a large number of contracts in the dedicated industry, which, of course, was abandoned by 2012. I just want to point out, as I come from Užica, that only Užica is dedicated production of First Partizan sold ammunition to 68 countries, and annual exports are $80 million. In the last three years alone, the factory has invested 28 million in new plants and production, which will allow Uzic to create 200 new jobs in the coming period. In 2014, the Council adopted The army took part in the most difficult event in our country, in the May floods, and there it showed the highest degree of organisation and completeness and all congratulations on it. In addition to all regular annual military parades, last year we had the honour of being part of the grand military parade "The Step of the Winners" organized for the 100th anniversary of the Great War. Whoever has had the honour of attending either a rally, an airmitting or these military parades, understands why the Serbian Army has regained its reputation among Serbian citizens today and why it has regained confidence. It is not surprising, therefore, that a growing number of young people are leaving to serve a military deadline even though it is no longer an obligation and why a large number of young people are enrolling military academys, including a growing number of women. Although gender equality in Serbia's military at the highest possible level, we women look forward to the first, so to speak, the Serbian General, because it will definitely be a significant step in the future. For all activity, army affirmation and the results of all congratulations to the Ministry of Defence and Minister Gasic, and full support of SNS MPs in the day to vote these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20945	The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20946	The President-in-Office, gentlemen officers, fellow MPs and respected citizens, the proposal for a law on defence, i.e. amendments and additions to the existing law, aims to ensure the uniform and effective functioning of the defence system. It is important that citizens know that the adoption of this law eliminates the problems of multiple regulation of the same or similar competences and their repetition in several laws as well as the addition of powers that are unclearly and inaccurately arranged or not at all, and are necessary for the more efficient functioning of the defence system, which is responsible for the Ministry of Defence. What I just said I only read part of the Ministry's explanation in the bill. As a woman of the army, I have nothing professional to say, but as a woman who follows everything that's going on in our country and a woman who is part of a team ready to change this country, of course it changes for the better, I'm going to look back at a few parts of these two laws that made an impression on me. So, respected citizens and respected ministers, I'm glad you're here, and I'm going to set a few examples of important changes, or additions that make this law a good law. The law prescribes the creation of a medium-term defence plan, and so far it has been a long-term plan, which will say that there is now a possibility of a faster and better-quality defense adjustment, i.e. the introduction of modern defence standards. In addition to drawing up a plan of defence for the Republic of Serbia, there will also be a plan for the use of the Republika Srpska Army. So, the responsible government is doing everything planically. This law strengthens the role of the Defence Inspectorate. This isn't just a mere form, the inspectorate is getting wider powers and opportunities to carry out what is its purpose. For the first time, this law, or amendments to the existing law, regulates waterway traffic management for defence purposes. I come from a place that sits all the way down on the Danube waterway and I know those bad times that are from us what houses were built near the coast, or at the rate of defense of the river. New member 23a. Prescribes as an obligation by the Ministry of Defence to keep records of the victims and missing persons in military conflicts. Personally, you should never have, but the experience we have experienced in the near past makes this member very important. The 83rd article was amended in a way that the future defence plan of the right municipalities, not as so far as the autonomous province and municipalities. Finally, the Law on Defence in Chapter 9 provides for a military defence which, among other things, would be the most important task to protect military property. From what the minister said today, it is quite clear that military property was something that was not considered enough, and I believe that by forming this military defence, this government and this ministry were determined to keep military property in check. As far as the military law is concerned, it is quite clear that the objective of passing this law is precisely more effective in commanding and handling Serbia's military in order to ensure the effective functioning of Serbia's Army. In this law, I will refer to only two changes that I believe will in many ways change the quality of life of employees in the military, both them and their families. A major change is for a citizen of the Republic of Serbia to be admitted to active military service in his capacity as a suboffice until the age of 35 and as an officer until the age of 40. For comparisons, they have worked for a period of three years until the age of 40 when they left the ministry by law. My conclusion is, if I understand correctly, now the best with experience and with the conditions they can achieve the status of permanent employees. Finally, Article 72b, and for that, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the officers' families, thank you. For the first time, you regulate the working status of a spouse of a military person. Therefore, if, for the sake of the need for service, a military person is assigned, and the spouse has to leave permanent employment for the next six years, i.e. until he finds permanent employment, and for the longest time up to six years, he has health and pension insurance as well as financial compensation. Dear Minister, I belong to a generation as sorry for the destroyed economy as I am for a destroyed army. You'll need ministers, a lot of effort, and a lot of will to introduce and regulate the army according to the set standards. But as the parade could be seen, the results are already visible. Continue with the reforms. You have our support, and in voting day, I will gladly vote for both of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20947	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20948	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected defence ministers, respected fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we have two system laws, the Law on Defence and the Law on the Serbian Army. I must say that the objective of amending and supplementing both the one and the other laws is, in fact, a termological harmonisation, then the removal of many indetermination and uncertainty that has been regulated in the previous 2009 laws, as well as, of course, the creation of a legal framework for the adoption of sublaws so that one and the other law is implemented in real life, i.e. it was implemented in the defence system and the Serbian Army system. First of all, what I want to say about the defense law is, first of all, a few aspects. The first aspect, that's the aspect of planning. For the functioning of any institution, planning activities is very important. The defence system, and how important a system for the Republic of Serbia but also how important a system for the security and security of all citizens of our Republic. In this sense, planning, both in the long term and in the medium term, is as important as you are now predicting. Only those institutions and those systems that have adequate plans and, of course, meet these plans, and here are the plans of action where all planned commitments will be fulfilled in one co-ordinatorial way, can be effective. The law on defence also envisions the powers of the president of the Republic of Serbia, the authority of the government, the authority of the defence minister and the authority of the general staff as the highest expert, i.e. staff authority in commanding Serbia's military in war, in emergency situations and in peace. Also, what I want to point out is to strengthen the role of inspectorates, military inspectorate as well as how significant, and in order to implement the law and in order to legalise all decisions and what I particularly want to stress, that is, Chapter 9 concerning the military defence, in particular, from the aspect of the protection of military property and from the aspect of representation of the Serbian Army in all those proceedings before the court. I must stress that as far as military defence is concerned, it is absolutely in line with comparable legal solutions in relation to the country in the environment, because all countries in the environment have either military lawyers, or the military law of defenders protecting the property legal relations of the Serbian Army. As far as the Serbian Army is concerned, what I would also like to point out, or what I want to point out, is a member of 33, which refers to Article 72, i.e. 72b, which refers to the spouse of the moved sub-officer, or an officer who does not have permanent employment in the place where the officer, or officer, is transferred, has the right to health care, has the right to contribute to pension and disability insurance, has the right to cash compensation of six years. Of course, these conditions and criteria will be determined by the Serbian government. Also, I would like to commend the return of acts to river units, from the act of a sub-contractor to the rank of a vice-admir, or admiral, because it is more than clear that units, river units, exist to bear rank and, of course, to return to them the acts that belong to them. Also, I would like to emphasise Article 35, which refers to Article 75 of Sections 2 and 3, which refers to the fact that it is not possible to resolve officers, officers and professional soldiers during pregnancy, during childbirth, during the care and special care of the child. I must stress that Serbia has a total of 217 female officers, of these 217 female officers, 166 are in the act of a supporter, and we have a single female colonel, she is otherwise a doctor of science. I must also point out that women at the Military Academy were first enrolled in 2007 and, of course, by meeting those legal and procedural conditions, there will be conditions for women to advance, or to gain higher rank. I would also like to emphasise Article 42, which applies to Article 97, which refers to military service under difficult conditions, particularly to the military service of those working on ships and other water facilities, given that they are at increased risk, or at risk of ionising and electromagnetic radiation of the radar, at risk of increased noise, of tight space, of increased moisture. Of course, these are all unnatural conditions. They also work 40 hours a week plus 16 hours of official duty and, of course, it's all at increased risk. What I also want to point out, which refers to women's participation in the Serbian Army, is that there are 2.6% of women among professional soldiers, that the total number of women in the Serbian Army is 8% and that this is on average with countries in the environment, and that the total number of women in Serbia's military and the defence ministry is 19.39%. I would also like to stress that the name Air Force is returning and the anti-aircraft defence, which is consistent with the continuation of continuity and in line with the tradition of the Serbian Army. Also, I would like to stress that the list of candidates for progress is now being established not only by the officers, but also by the list of candidates for promotion and sub-office, and that list of candidates is being determined on the proposal of the minister. In the end, I would like to point out that for the Serbian Progressive Party, the most important thing is that citizens have confidence in what this government is headed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. Mr. Defence Minister, I must say that Serbian citizens have high confidence in the institution you are leading, which is the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army. The two institutions in all research, in all polls in citizens, have been recognised as the most trusted institutions. This is what is very important for the Serbian Progressive Party, and you are a concrete example, unfortunately in emergency conditions, but fortunately these citizens have shown that at every moment you are along with your citizens and that you are at their service. All of these are reasons why the Serbian Progressive Party will support the two legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20949	The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20950	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, the Honorable fellow MPs and MPs, the bill we are discussing today, which is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Military and Defence, have one fundamental objective, which is to establish a better defence system, which is more effective, which is more efficient, which is in any case essential both for our country and also for our citizens. What I would like to point out is that what is very important to every citizen of this country and every country is, in addition to one economic security and stability, what is very important to him is the knowledge that he lives in a country where there is a very secure, powerful defence mechanism. That's actually what gives every citizen a sense of security. Our citizens may be even more, given our history and given the many changes and many transformations we have experienced as a society, as well as our army. Perhaps one of the greatest transformations that our army has experienced, and it happened in 2010, when the mandatory military service was abolished and the professionalization of the army was done. The proposed amendments and additions propose a more precise solution to the adoption of mandatory action plans. This should contribute to a more efficient, quality co-ordination between all bodies involved in defence affairs. Then, with the proposed changes and additions, that is what I would especially praise and what I think is very good, it is going towards a rationalisation of costs, so it is planning and proposing to narrow down the circle of legal persons working on jobs and tasks that are related to defence affairs, so that now these actions, of course, according to the law, will be referred only to legal persons of particular importance for defence. Also, in that direction, it will be a maximum effort to rationalise, i.e. to take care of how military property is spent, and therefore a military defence will be organised within the Ministry of Defence, and so far these tasks and tasks have been carried out by the Directorate for Property and Legal Affairs. I think it's all very positive, given that we live in very difficult economic times, so all that represents one savings, I think it's very good. What has particularly attracted my attention when it comes to the amendment and supplementation laws of the Military Act, are amendments concerning Article 14a. How I listened to my colleagues who spoke before me and they felt that it was something very positive. Now these changes allow active members of the Serbian Army instead of the ban, which was once explicit, are now made possible, of course, with the previous consent of the minister, that they can participate in various activities of different civil society associations concerning defence, and then how to establish, how to comply with our laws with EU laws, so I think that this is very good for a number of reasons, and I am very glad that this need to change, firstly, because I think that the closure of any type is not good and that it cannot bring any good, and secondly, who knows better than our soldiers the circumstances of the army, the defence, so that I think that they can only help with their participation, and I think at all that the change of this member is a very good, even that active approach, an active principle. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Defence, they are now very precise and very detailed, which are the competences that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has, because in the current law some competences have not been sufficiently precise and clearly defined, which in this area cannot possibly be tolerated, so that the proposed amendments and additions are corrected, so that there will be no situation now that we have some practical problems like this because, as I have already said, some insufficient clarity in the existing legislation. Also, it has been very precisely defined what the powers of the President of the Republic are. In some parts of the jurisdiction of the President of the Republic have been extended. Also, there has been the eradication of certain points, more specifically points 9 and 12, for one simple reason – because the matter covered by those points is already regulated by other laws, specifically by the Law on the Use of the Army of Serbia and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, that is point 9 and the Law on the Serbian Army, point 12. At the very end of what I would like to point out, to mention once again, is that the Serbian Army is an extremely important institution for all its citizens. Perhaps the best part of this is the fact that there was once a compulsory military service, and perhaps one of the most solemn acts in every young man's life was to send him to the army and not only him, but from his parents, the whole family, and then, in one time, there was an unfair neglect of the army, so I can say. I'm very glad to notice that the last few years have changed. The best example and proof of that is the military parade that was held this year, when the army showed itself in its full glory, where citizens could really be in the right sense of those words proud of their army, that it was seen to be very powerful, that it was very well organized and that they could see that it could fulfill its basic purpose, which is that in the right sense it defends the freedom of its citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party will always support everything that can advance our army and our system of defence in general. I think the proposed changes and additions are going that way, so they'll definitely have SNS support in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20951	Thank you. The word is made by MP Krstimir Pantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20952	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, honored guests from the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Serbian Army is one of the most respected institutions in the Republic of Serbia and this reputation and respect that the Serbian Army has in Serbian citizens has been built and built for centuries. Today, the Serbian Army is a desirable and equal partner to everyone in the world. Serbia's military participates in a large number of UN-sponsored international missions, aimed at preserving world peace. If I am not mistaken, it is a total of seven missions involving members of the Serbian Army. But it is not the only success and the only positive side that the Serbian Army is showing today and in the Republic of Serbia and beyond the borders of our country. All we can remember is the sacrifice of members of the Serbian Army during last year's floods when they selflessly helped citizens evacuate from flooded areas. All we can think of is their energy and sacrifice to resuscitate the effects of the flood, as well as creating conditions for the population to return from endangered areas to their homes. It is also worth mentioning last year's military exercise, which the Serbian Army held in November with the Russian Federation's armed forces and which was assessed by the highest marks. Since the open enmity the Serbian Army had with the NATO Pact in 1999 and the war that happened then, we have come to the situation that the Serbian Army is working actively with this same organisation today and that Serbia is a member of the Partnership for Peace. That is why it is our obligation to respect and appreciate the members of the Serbian Army, not to allow them in any way to be muddy in the public, not to let their results fall, and therefore, in the day of the vote, we will support these laws. I'm sure all SNS MPs will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20953	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20954	President-in-Office, Mr Minister, representatives of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we have laws on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia, which are vital for the proper functioning of the defence system of the Republic of Serbia. These amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and Serbia's military have been brought on the basis of experience from practice and detailed analyses on the application of existing laws to the functioning of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army. The main objective of these amendments is to bring these changes into line with existing laws and regulations, as well as to enable the Ministry of Defence to work more efficiently with maximum savings, and to make Serbia's military more efficient and modern armed forces. The fundamental changes in the Law on Defence concern extending the responsibility of the President of the Republic in the area of defence, so the President of the Republic now agrees on the draft of all basic development planning documents, not just the draft strategic review of the defence of the Republic of Serbia. The authorities and governments of the Republic of Serbia have been extended, so now the Government of the Republic of Serbia has the power to adopt action plans to implement the strategies adopted for efficiency in their application. A significant amendment to the Law on Defence relating to the significantly more precise regulation of the matter of inspection supervision in the Serbian Army, which will ensure more effective implementation of inspection supervision and control of enforcement in accordance with the law. Also, perhaps the most significant solution is the introduction of the military defence institution, which is a special organisational unit of the Ministry of Defence, whose task is to take legal actions and remedies for the realisation and protection of the property interests of the Republic of Serbia in the defence system. The establishment of military defence is extremely important because I believe that a special service formed and operated within the Serbian Army, such as the military defence, can be much better protected by the interests of the Serbian Army than by a legal person outside Serbia's military system. As for the amendment of the Law on the Army, in addition to major amendments to the harmonisation and harmonisation of existing regulations and the legal system in order to implement these laws more effectively, new amendments to the Law on the Army are reintroduced to allow members of the military, with the prior consent of the defence minister, to participate in the activities of the civil sector association, which achieve the objectives of reforming Serbia's defence system and military. Such a solution that allows members of the military to participate in civil sector activities is very important because it is in accordance with Article 141. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which defines that the Serbian Army is under democratic and civilian control. This amendment to the Law on the Army will restore the supervisory role of the public of civil society, which is one of the pillars of the democratic civilian control of the security sector. The amendments to the Law on the Serbian Army also specify specific interests of the Serbian Army under particularly difficult conditions, which will better protect the rights of these Serbian military members working in difficult and dangerous conditions, such as pilots, divers, paratroopers. The amendments to the law also define the possibility that a member of Serbia's military after nine years of professional military status can be admitted to a permanent working relationship as a civilian without a public competition, allowing these persons to continue their work after this period and contribute to the defence system of the Republic of Serbia. Before I finish my presentation, I'd like to refer to some positive things in the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, which have happened since you, Mr. Minister, took office. As you said for the first time in 15 years, the Serbian Army has 75% of its reserves filled with oil derivatives and aircraft fuel, while during the Minister who managed the Ministry of Defence by 2012, fuel was only for daily use, while the war reserves were zero. Also, someone from the opposition today said the situation in the air force is critical. Here, I ask the question - what was the condition of the Air Force in the time before 2012, if we know that at that time the average attack of the fighter air pilot was two and a half hours, and now the attack of these pilots is 40 hours? So much for the state of the air force used to be and what it is now. Also, by rational use of funds from savings last year, the Serbian Army managed to buy more than 30,000 gas masks. Again we ask the question – what happened to that money before 2012? Mr. Minister, thank you for the magnificent military parade that has shown that Serbian citizens have armed forces that they can be proud of. I think it was really nice to see pride in the eyes of Serb soldiers passing by a huge number of citizens who came to see that military parade. I believe that these amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and Serbia's military will contribute significantly more effectively and better to the functioning of the defence system and the Serbian Army, thus keeping these institutions worthy of the reputation and trust of Serbian citizens. For this very reason, I will support these amendments to the law. I invite you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20955	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20956	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of Defence, unlike colleagues who have noticed a large number of uniforms today, I am extremely pleased that so many top Serbian Army officials are participating in today's debate, headed by Mr. Minister. I was a pretty good soldier. After the laws adopted in 2007 and their amendments and additions in October 2009, the problems and shortcomings observed, the removal of the same or similar powers, the addition of powers that are unclearly or inaccurately or not at all, have been approached by amendments and additions to those laws, all in order to ensure the uniform and efficient functioning of the defence system and more efficient command and management of Serbia's military, as well as more efficient functioning of it. A public debate on the drafts of both laws, i.e. both legislative proposals, was held in the beginning of 2014 in several cities in Serbia. What I would particularly point out in both amendments and additions to the law is this: the proposal for the Serbian Army to be structurally divided into genders and services, genders and services in kind, and species in specialities. The amendment and addition of the law provides for individual Serb armies to be grouped together in terms of the Serbian Army's visions: the Land Army, the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defence. I especially point out, like most of my colleagues in the debate, that because of tradition the name – Air Force and Air Defense was restored again. In a public debate, there were completely conflicting and outright objections to the term "war" as well as to point out that, given that the Serbia Army has river units, the return of naval acts to this bill. The draft law sets out the president of the Republic on a proposal from the defence minister, while the kind and specialities of the Serb Army's families and services determines the minister at the proposal of the Chief of Staff. The bill states that Serbia's military changes are being implemented in line with the provisions of the long-term development of the defence system, Serbia's strategic defence proposal, as well as the medium-term plan and defence programme. The defence law regulates the defence system, the jurisdiction of the state authorities and the Serbian Army in defence, as well as the rights and duties of state authorities, local administrations, individualities, i.e. citizens, companies and other legal entities and entrepreneurs in defence. The military law regulates the organisation, composition and mode of action, position and jurisdiction of the Serbian Army, the specificity of military service, command and management. Also, the bill regulates acts and titles in the Serbian Army, markings and symbols, military holidays, public work, democratic civilian control, religious service and many other issues of importance for the Serbian Army. What I would like to point out in particular is the proposal that those who spend nine years without interruption, as professional soldiers, can be admitted to armed forces without competition, as civilian persons, if the need arises, as well as on a proposal that maternity and pregnant women are not relieved of their duties while they are on maternity and maternity leave, but that they return to their jobs after completion. Convinced that these changes and additions will improve the overall situation in Serbia's military and preserve the bright traditions of its rich past, in the voting day I will support amendments and additions to the proposed laws. At this point, I'd like to mention the token we mentioned today. I saw a chip, and it looks a lot like a chip I got from a former US ambassador to Serbia a long time ago. The only thing he didn't have were four glasses. He had eagles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20957	The word is Mr Milos Tosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20958	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Bratislav Gasic presented these two laws in detail and in detail and very well directed us to the parts that we will discuss and the parts that we will discuss, so that I will briefly refer to both of these laws, with the fact that in previous statements, as far as I can tell, I have not noticed anything very bad about these laws, even on the contrary. As regards the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army, they have been brought into line with new regulations and regulations, such as lower hierarchical documents, such as the Regulation on genders and services, religious service, symbols, markings, command, leadership and others. It is precisely defined what is a specific military service and military service under difficult conditions. Also, the contents of the defence ministry's work of competence and the head of the Serbian Army's General Staff have been updated, signed and prescribed. A new area has been detailed on keeping track of the state of affairs in the service of professional members and civilian persons, and there are also detailed updates regarding the status of members of the service, such as: promotion, retirement, salary, compensation, termination of service, responsibility, disciplinary measures, distinctions, recognitions, etc. The reason for the adoption of this law is the need to align existing solutions with experience in the practical application of the Law on Serbia's Army and to comply with changes in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia implemented after the amendments to the applicable law implemented under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Serbia. Also, the reason for the adoption of this law is to remove perceived inaccuracies in certain solutions that create difficulties in interpreting the provisions of the law and the need to specify individual powers for the adoption of sublegal acts that can be made for the enforcement of this law. The goal to achieve this law is more effective in commanding and handling Serbia's military and ensuring the effective functioning of Serbia's Army. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, many concepts, such as: what is a defence system, what is a defence system, what are entities of the defence system, what is a civil and what is a military defence. Also defined are the terms: what is the doctrine of the Serbian Army, what are doctrinal documents, what are medium- and long-term plans and defence reviews that define the objectives and assess the necessary funding. I will point out that it is a very positive addition of Article 14 to which the responsibility and affairs of the Ministry of Defence are very detailed in specific fields and functions, so that 59 tasks are now proposed. This law detailed the content of the inspection supervision in the Ministry of Defence, in all areas of defence of the prescribed laws and other regulations. An important content on the logistics support of the Serbian Army has been detailed, with a view to meeting the essential operational needs of the Serbian Army. Significantly completed content regarding general and partial mobilization. A paper on the organisation of public-private partnerships has been introduced, and in order to conclude a contract of action relevant for the defence, reconstruction and maintenance of military facilities, provision of services and the like. Important contents related to military defences and courts have been detailed. The main reason for the adoption of this law is the need to remove the problems and shortcomings observed in the procedure of regular monitoring of the application of regulations and acts, which are governed by the system of defence and compliance with the changes in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia implemented after the last amendments to the law in force under the Law amending the Defence Act. The specific reason for the adoption of this law is to remove multiple arrangements of the same or similar competences and their unnecessary repetition in several laws and additions to powers that are unclearly or incorrectly arranged or are not at all regulated and necessary for more effective functioning of the defence system for which the Ministry of Defence is responsible. The aim to achieve the adoption of this law is to ensure the uniform and effective functioning of the defence system. Finally, I would like to say that Mr. Minister Bratislav Gasic, where he is, has done his job extremely well, has shown that he is consistent and worthy of the place where he is located, that the military and the defence will bring him to the level, to that pedestal where he will be at the very top, that he will raise the maximum battle effort of the Serbian Army. In that name, I wish the Minister a great deal of success in the work, with advancedness to you, and I thank everyone else for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20959	The word is made by MP Milan Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20960	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, state secretary, generals, senior officers of the Serbian Army, I wanted to mention one segment, which is a segment of the market orientation of our dedicated industry. 25 years ago, our dedicated industry was one of the world's leading industries, and it's better to say what we didn't produce than what we did, given the size of the country: complete infantry weapons were ours, artillery, known rocket launchers, we even produced submarines and we were export-oriented. We haven't been able to save that trend. I was lucky to have worked for our army 25 years ago at the Michael Pupin Science Research Institute. We were working on a radar data quiz, and I guarantee we were at NATO level back then. But we couldn't keep those experts that were great. And now I know that our constructors are extremely good, highly esteemed, it's just a matter of management, and now we have a chance to get it all started. As far as trends are concerned, that's exactly why we need to guard our personnel because our military trends are towards drones and robots. The world's leading armies will have nowhere else to go. In order to maintain that technological level, we need to preserve our personnel. The most expensive thing is mind imported. I have to say something about the machine. Imagine that we should promote one of our products, the product of our dedicated industry that we saw then, our armored transporters and our drones. Imagine that we have an army of world journalists, 700, and that we are the media capital of the world, should we not take advantage of such an opportunity? I understand the opposition's criticism, but I don't understand when we do something we all need. It's not just the image of the country, we were the center of the world back then. We need to talk about how many tons of fuel we spent, that's nothing compared to what we got. As for the acts at one point, it seemed to me that we had four levels of generals, four in the Navy, even though the commander of the war fleet is a colonel, but if we have to follow these people who have finished the naval academy, then I agree with that. Moreover, in 1944 the vermacht had 12 million soldiers and about 3,000 generals. So, 17,000 soldiers, one general. I know we can't make a parallel, but I have the impression we have more generals than our army needs. That's my layman's impression. One more thing, Mr. Minister, I want you to promise us that no one will ever make chips with their character and that you will never do it during your term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20961	The word has a minister named Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20962	I promise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20963	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20964	Mr. Chairman, the honourable minister of Gasic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the amendment and addition of the law on defence and the Serbian Army. The strategy for the defence of the Republic of Serbia is a basic strategic document aimed at the involvement of defence resources and the development of normative, doctrinal and organisational solutions to the defence system of the Republic of Serbia. The Doctorate of the Republika Srpska Army is a basic document defining general definitions of military action, organisation, preparation, use and security of the Serbian Army in peace, war and emergency. This document develops a established basis for building a professional and efficient Serbian Army, a material-financially sustainable, interoperable with the armies of partner countries, modernly equipped and qualified for the realization of missions and tasks. The increased interdependence of countries on a global scale reduces the risk of traditional military threats. Nevertheless, today the world faces a complex security situation characterized by rapid and difficult predictable changes, which continues to make war and armed conflicts a constant of international relations. The largest number of countries in the world has been defined to address the issue of their own security in the context of a collective security system, the UN organisation, which remains an important factor in global security and which envisions a response by the International Community in the event of violations of the international legal order and a threat to peace. The Republika Srpska Army is 60th in the world's "Globalfire powder index" list, which ranks the armies of a total of 106 countries in the world. The assessment is based on human potential and equipment, but also other important factors such as the military budget. As is known, the Republic of Serbia joined the 2006 NATO Partnership for Peace programme with NATO. A Partnership for Peace is a military-political programme of practical bilateral co-operation between party countries and NATO. It allows partners to build an individual relationship with NATO, choosing their own priorities for co-operation. On the basis of commitment and democratic principles that form the basis of the alliance itself, the purpose of the partnership for peace is to increase stable, reduce peace threats and to securely strengthen relations between partner countries and NATO. It is precisely these proposals of the law that will significantly strengthen our position in the world and raise it to a much higher level than the basic strategic doctrinal documents that include the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Doctor of the Serbian Army. A very important change in the defence system is that now the authorities of autonomous provinces, as well as units of local self-government, form a single defence system of the country, including economic operators in them, who, in accordance with their respective competences, plan a system of work and security measures in emergency and war circumstances. The Ministry of Defence may conclude contracts with private entities in defence, reconstruction or any purpose for raising the country's combativity. Under the proposal for a law on the Serbian Army, we can identify a significant newspaper in the regulation of Serbia's Army's jurisdiction and position by bringing the principles of internal organisation and systematisation of formation posts in the Serbian Army to the government's proposal by the defence minister. The change of rank in river units is one of the newspapers, as well as an excellent proposal that in the event of the detection of the use of illicit opiate funds by officers or any other person at the service in the Serbian Army, a measure of distance from duty that is significant in relation to the former member of the law that allowed treatment from the same and only after the case was repeated would there be a disciplinary step away from duty or function. The units of the Serbian Army or institutions are allowed to name prominent figures or events related to the history of the Serbian Army, which is unequivocally speaking about the intention of preserving the bright heroic history of our country that has never been an aggressor through the centuries, but only the protector of its territory without any claim towards anyone. His history through wars and conflicts should always be proud to remember, since the first regular Serb army company to be formed in 1829 by the Duke of Podinjski Jevrem Obrenovic, through Major Gavrilovic, who told soldiers who defended Belgrade that they had nothing to fear because their lives no longer exist, since the Supreme Command erased his regiment from military status. In fact, the Supreme Command has never issued such an order and whose words and days today are that they are proud to speak at the Japanese Military Academy, through Stepa Stepanović, Zivojin Misic, Major Milan Tepic and many others. These bill proposals should be adopted unequivocally in the voting day and improved through their application, improved and raised to a higher level, a degree of professionalism in the organisation, management and command of units of the Republic of Serbia's Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20965	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20966	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected members and representatives of the Serbian Army, the Honored Chairman of Becic and the Honorable Mr Gasic, I agree that the laws should remove the problems identified in the process of monitoring the application of the law, which reads in the light of the first draft of the law. I agree, Mr. Gasic, that the laws need to remove the inaccuracies that have been created by multiple arrangements of the same or similar powers, and there are no dilemmas for me. I agree, Minister Gasic, that we need more effective command and management of Serbia's military, which is also written in an explanation for the second bill and I appreciate, Minister Gasic, which, unlike most ministers in the government, you send relatively well-prepared and reasoned bill proposals to the Assembly. I have to say, we've had experience with ministers who've come here two or three times to change those one. Mr. Gasic, this is not the case with you and as a folk MP, one of 250, I want to make it clear here that I appreciate it. But, Minister Gashiæ, I want to ask you one thing here, to call it a cannon question. The cannon question is, gentlemen, purely to remind here and the distinguished gentleman of the guests and the MPs, the issue of artillery rearms and the modernisation of Serbian artillery that lasted, respected gentlemen, from 1904 to 1906. Dear Members of the People, because of the cannon issue, a political affair broke out, but also a few crises have taken place during this period, and King Peter has questioned and changed his stance, gentlemen. General Traveler, who took the post of military minister on several occasions, said that when he went to the market to buy a chicken, he would look at him from this side and the other, so he wouldn't fool himself. And you, Mr. Gasic, I think today, during today's debate, and in the last few days in public appearances, you've been wrong in courts, about what we've already discussed today, Mr. Gasic. I'm thinking like this now. How can I judge your actions, Minister Gasic, when we know that the bill's proposals are relatively good, when we know that the King can be questioned, that General Traveller could have been questioned, only you, Minister Gasic, are not questioning yourself about, I think, your inappropriate assessment of the work of a man who performs on behalf of an institution, even today, in this Assembly, in our debate, Mr Gasic, and that is the Citizens' Protector. I must say, gentlemen, it was part of our debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20967	I beg you, Mr Pavicevic, and I must say this, that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and that you are not talking about something that is not the subject of the agenda. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20968	I'm only asking for a little patience, sir. I know you're personally on the verge of power, you've been chairing the National Assembly session all day, but here's another minute or a minute and a half, Mr. Becic. So, what's a big dilemma for me now? I gave the assessment of minister Gasic's approach to the bill. But also the assessment of his actions in the last few days and today. Now this is how I think: how, honourable gentlemen, to reconcile a good approach in the preparation of the bill and one, in my court, situational, constitutional, non-compliance of one of the ministers in the government, in this case, Mr. Gasic? My proposal is next. Let's adopt these suggestions, gentlemen, but, if not for other reasons, and for the sake of drinking to your famous predecessors in that place, Mr. Gasic. Say it here. I was wrong. It can only strengthen your authority, Mr. Gasic, in this government. Dear gentlemen, I also prepared a book here called "Speaks" by Jovan Skerlic, a month ago and a few days ago I gave it to the president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic. I prepared for you, Mr. Gasic, that the echo of this apology would not seem so terrible, a book that came out last year, was issued by the Institute of Contemporary History, it is a building up close, "Top, soldier and memory, World War I and Serbia 2014 through 2009" and I hope, Mr. Gasic, that this will also help in your reviewing your work as a minister and I hope you do not mind reading this reading.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20969	Time, Mr. Pavicevic. I'm sorry I didn't get the book from you, Mr. Pavicevic. Mr. Pavicevic, I beg you, the next time you share books, I'd like to get a book from you. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go, the word is Bratislav Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20970	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, for your gift. Here, you have just confirmed what I know, when you talked about the laws that the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence give in the debate in this assembly, in this esteemed assembly, that the lawyers are doing their part of the work properly and that you have commended the full legal service and secretariat of the Serbian Army that prepares these laws and all the accompanying services that are here today. Mr. Pavicevic, I never find it difficult to apologize and say, yes, I was wrong. I don't have a foundation here because I'm asking the D.A. to come to me and say, yes, you can give the papers to the Citizens' Protector, it won't prejudge the investigative and investigative procedure and I'm waiting for their paper. So, we don't have any problem with giving the Guardian to the Citizens, but the D.A. has to tell us, yes, come on, because the same act I showed you today has been prepared by these same high-level lawyers, and one of them is here, and the Secretary of the Department of Defense, for years in a very high position, Judge of the High Court. So, the moment someone says, yes, this law was older, the Law on the Protector of Citizens is older than the criminal procedure, I'll say, yes, sorry, we didn't know in the Ministry of Defense, I didn't know it as the first among the equals, I made a mistake. But I guess it's enough if I say we don't have any problems at this point to get any civilian control at the Military Security Agency. I have to work for the public, for the citizens of Serbia and for you here. Here, the news is already coming – the VBA is not listening to anyone at the moment, as if we used to listen to someone. We know the legal procedures so we can get into any process. I have to say for the public and what I just mentioned about 2011 when it comes to unions, and it was only with the court's approval. So it's not our intention to tell the former minister that he did something against the law. On the contrary, it was done in accordance with the law and with the court's approval for... So, he falls off the chandelier... All right, Mr. Sutanovac, let me say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20971	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, allow the minister to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20972	I didn't say today that it was done then in an illegal way, against the law, and I care very much to preserve the honor of these honest Serbian officers because they were wrongly attacked. I said at the beginning of my address that you can call me whatever names you want, you can tell me whatever stories you want, but I won't let the honorable Serbian officers sitting next to me today suffer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20973	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. Mr. Pavicevic, why do you think you have the right to a replica? If you promised me a book on history and gave me a book on history, you don't have to think now that that's the only reason you have the right to a replica. But, here, explain why you think you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20974	On the basis of Article 104, I have the right to a replica, because I don't think Mr. Gasic understood a part of my presentation well. You, Mr. Becic, don't worry, I'll prepare an appropriate book for the appropriate moment here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20975	Thank you. I look forward to that moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20976	So, honored gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected members and representatives of the Serbian Army, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Becic and the Honorable Minister of Gasic, I believe, Minister Gasic, that it was not appropriate for one man who performed on behalf of an institution defined by the Constitution, Article 138, Mr Gasic, to say to that man, and I listened to you, not only that he was wrong, but that he was speaking nonsense. You, Mr. Gasic, said that this man did something that you're ashamed to say to describe what he did. Dear Mr. Gasic, this man performs on behalf of an institution, as I understand it, works by law. This man adheres to certain rules and as I think, Mr. Gasic, I believe that if the king could change his attitude by questioning, if General Putnik, who was a military minister, could be questioned, honored gentlemen, to change his attitude, so why couldn't you, Mr. Gasic, say that you were sorry for Mr. Jankovic, said he was talking nonsense, and that you were sorry, Mr. Gasic, for saying that you were ashamed to say that word that came to your mind to describe his actions. It's a relationship...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20977	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20978	It's an institution-relationship, Mr. Gasic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20979	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Just as you are looking for the right for Minister Gasic, you can also refer it to the Commissioner Jankovic. Here you go, Mr. Gasic, you'll get your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20980	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I'm using a replica or if I have the right to speak as a minister. But both my chair and my function is some institution and she can't have someone without any argument, because she wants to protect some interests there, because she wants to absorb some information, because she wants something to come up with. I don't know what you'd call it, too, a media release without listening to the other side and saying yes, your arguments are due to yes, the law. You're wrong, you owe us, or you don't have to, and even if we wait for him to tell us that the D.A.'s office is telling us to tell the court that, yes, you are. We'll deliver it because we don't want to disrupt the process that's under way, but you're going out, and you're giving out some information and you're condemning the VBA before that, without coming in seven years in control and finding any leak. Don't forget, just one more thing, the Assembly Security Control Committee has two days before the release of this information in the media, accepted the report and completed the control of the VBA. It means that this institution is disabling the Assembly's Security Control Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20981	I thank you, Mr. Gasic. As I said before, as you have a responsibility, the other side has a responsibility. Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think you have any more rights to the replica. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the site: But can I explain? Now what? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: To explain. To explain, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20982	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members and representatives of the Army. Mr. Becic, please intervene the SNS MPs are getting up, they won't let me speak. What is it, gentlemen? Our assembly is, I must remind you,...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20983	Mr Pavicevic, please do not replicate with the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20984	Then calm the People's Messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20985	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, I only let you tell me in one sentence why you consider yourself entitled to a replica. Just to limit yourself to it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20986	That's right, that's what I was going to say. Here, Mr. Becic, now let me tell you why I have the right to a replica. I think Minister Gasic and I are talking about one thing that has no understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20987	Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think that's enough ground for a replica and I can't let you have the right to a replica, and I would also ask you when you decide on the moment when you'll give me a book so it won't be a memory of me being an MP once. Thank you. The People's Messenger is the People's Messenger, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20988	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as former soldier, as bearer of the former rank, I think that when military matters come to order... What do you want to know about my rank? First class divorcée or corporal. I'll explain. My military deadline lasted 452 days. The officers who are here know very well, I served at Mekushe Kamenski, two hundred days of training. They trained me for 200 days, and then I trained others for 252 days. Only so much when we have opposition questions to explain that as a soldier, I have the right to ask that first those of us who served the army and women who don't have to receive the military's right to the championship when it comes to military issues, arms issues and so on. I believe that those who didn't serve the army, I believe that those who wore geese and ducks, I believe that those who carried some brooms, brushes and so on, I believe that they know little less about military service than we do. And, as a farmer, I have to say, if I had to say where I served, Carlovec and Bihac, I was also an army of land, I was and then it was called the Air Force and the anti-aircraft defense, and now it's anti-aircraft defense. So I was both. I was a soldier no matter what ideologically it was not my army, this army was strong and I am proud to serve a military term during the time when this army was a significant force, not only in the region but also in Europe, and perhaps in the world. Those who did not do so, those who did not serve the army, those who avoided military obligations in various ways, and my peers are honored to them that although they did not serve, even though they did not listen they were not ready to command because it is an old military rule, if you do not know how to listen, then you are not good for commanding. I can blame those who didn't serve, I can forgive them, but I can't forgive them for taking the right to command. They didn't serve the state, but that's why they served the state and how they served it. The peasants always loved the army and the church. The Serbian state was created modern on a Serbian tripod called a peasant, an army, a church. Peasant liked to go to church, the peasant gladly went to the army, left the plow, rode a rifle and the synonym of a real Serb soldier is Dragutin Matic, from Gacin's Han. So it's not hard to assume that he was a symbol not only of World War II but of an honorable, honest soldier serving a military term, going to war for eight years. So he left the plow in 1910, went to military service. In 1912 he was in the First Balkan War, and in 1913 in the Second Balkan War, in 1914 he went to World War I, as they called him in the first great war. He's back. He kept working. He continued to fund his army in his village, without any pension, without two witnesses met his age and died in the village where he lived and was loyal to his homeland. He also had another example of the wicked soldiers, Mr. Francis Pierce, who in 1941 betrayed the Air Force, fled to the side of Ante Pavelic, returned in 1944 in a strange way and the first thing he did, picked up his fellow pilots who had not betrayed and shot them in the village of Pancevo. Just so we know what an honorable Serb army is, what our tradition is, what our future is, how to be loyal to the military and country and country, and what treason means, we must always divide it. They split up and then medals. They're sharing Karadjorje's stars. They split eagles. There was plenty of medals. We moved on to the chip to grab the money. It's almost amazing what they used to bring the army to before us. I believe that this chip, too, has been installed, the question of how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, how much, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, I guess we'll get an answer about that someday. But the fact is that we in Srem, and Mr. Martinovic knows it best, we have chips of another kind. You put a chip in something, take down the invisible chiu-chiu dull. So it's a real Serbian chip, this one in English, maybe it's for some of Ohio, the aircraft carrier, to get on a Disneyland or something. The congratulatory one who would use, that congratulatory chip that lays out the crashes, the rockets, etc., he hits the F117, the invisible one, now you don't see him, but then you see him on the ground -- whose blunt. So, we have this other kind of token, and I'm proud that, regardless of the lack of weapons, we've shown that we can take down the malts and with a slingshot what no one has shot down. The old saying says it's no shame to fall, it's a shame to stay down and it's a shame not to get up. We don't need to crawl, we need to stand up. In order to stand up, I advocate the introduction of compulsory military service or mandatory training of the civilian population in the nearest barracks, at least a few weeks, at least a dozen weekends, for the simple reason that we will get the reserve composition, and in such a way introduce the youth into some streams, have we been young of the insubordination, in the army we have become obedient, from the restless we have become calm, from the lazy, we have become of any kind. So, the military isn't just about learning how to handle guns, handling weapons. The army in a certain way molds a young man, teaches him some obedience, teaches him discipline, teaches him order, teaches him the work, so I strive to return in a certain way to military service, at least for a few weeks, to train the male population, and also the woman he wants to dress in arms handling, and that professional composition to be modern. I advocate that, in parallel with the economy, we raise our army, we get modern equipment for it, first of all, to be a deterrent force, to have the most modern means, the most modern planes, the most modern missile systems in the region, and thus be some army in the region that will be a force for deterrence, and never a force for aggression. I believe that, compared to the rise of the economy, the army must rise, the old proverb says – what the plow earns, the sword must defend. So now I think that what peasants produce is that workers need to process, to raise our economy, and that the military should defend both the economy and the sovereignty of the country. We need to raise the economy, that's for sure, we need to pay attention to the military, we need to raise our attention again in our own way, not the top issue, not the satellite issues, the predecessors forgot that the president of one party participated in the purchase of satellites, we have paid 42m euros for satellite rentals, footage coming in 24 hours late, that it was ordered by the SCG, that two or three Montenegrins voted, and that the Republic of Serbia, paid it exclusively out of its budget, that it was one of the biggest affairs and that we broke 42m euros. They also forgot that they ordered three helmets per soldier, a combat soldier, three vests, as if a soldier would wear three vests, three helmets at once, or one helmet should be worn on his head, and the other one would eat. They forgot to ask questions today, cannon questions from 1904 to 1906. I suggest we all spend time together in effort and sweat, raise our heads and our flag. Be aware that humans are mortal, but the glory of freedom fighters never dies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20989	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word Dr. Marko Atlagic, as the last registered speaker. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20990	Dear Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, military with workers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, before I refer to the Defence Act, allow Mr. President Becic to thank publicly and openly here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Army of the Republic of Serbia headed by the Chief of Staff of Serbia General Dikovic, and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia at the head of you Ministers, military Mr. Gasic, for being in catastrophic floods in May 2014, which have hit a part of our citizens and our country, made a huge contribution both to the management of the evacuated persons, and to the construction of the embankment, the setting of bridge crossings, the cleaning of the gliders, the water supply, the pumping of water supply, and the provision of assistance of each type as well as the rest and the entire government of Serbia. Mr. Gasic, the citizens of Serbia have recognized it very well, and they will really thank you for what you did in the floods. Dear Chairman, it is good that the Ministry has proposed these amendments and additions to the law on defence, because the Law on Defence, as well as the Serbian Army, is modernising in line with the overall modernisation of our country, which our prime minister promoted in the exposé, which he presented to us Serbian citizens on 27.04. Since some forget only in one sentence to point out that this is the most comprehensive, best and most precise and greatest exposures of all previous 72 exposures since 1805, from the first Prime Minister, Mr Mateja Nenadovic, to this day. It is very good, Mr. Minister, that these defense laws change the observed shortcomings in the regular application of regulations and acts. It is excellent, honourable MPs, which this law will be in line with the changes that the government of the Republic of Serbia introduces in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and in line with the modernisation of Serbia, which has been promoted, as I said on 27 April 2014, here in the National Assembly. It is good, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that this law defines concepts that have not been defined at all. It is also very well respected by the chairmanship that the Law on Defence is more precise and extends the powers of the president of the Republic of Serbia in the area of defence. It is excellent, gentlemen, for the MPs, which is changing and improving the members of the laws relating to the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the area of defence, and I am particularly stressing the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt procedural, military and non-military challenges, risks and threats to the security of our country. It is excellent, Mr. Minister, that the amendments to this Law will more precisely regulate the tasks of the Ministry of Defence of Serbia and the proposed solutions are in line with the Law on Ministrys, with the Law on Planning and Construction, at least as far as those members are concerned, as far as military facilities are concerned. It is very good that the law specifically regulates the powers of the Serbian Army's General Staff to prepare doctrinal documents and add-on jobs in terms of geotopographic security. It is great that more precisely, security defence affairs from the defence ministry and the Serbian Army are being determined and arranged. It is very good, Mr. Minister, that the Ministry of Defence, through the application of this law, introduces records of the deceased, missing, captured and murdered members of the former SFRY Armed Forces for the period from 1991 to 15 May1992 and records of missing members of the Yugoslav Army in the territory of AP KIM in 1998 and 1999. It is great that this law lays down more precisely the duties of civil authorities and procedures for preparing the implementation of defence plans from the work of their jurisdiction. In the end, Mr. Minister, these days we've heard unwitting, tenorous and today here in the National Assembly and untrue criticism on your behalf. Believe it or not, respected citizens of Serbia, but it is true, they come from those who brought Serbia's military to the lowest level in their rich history. Believe it or not, they come from even the former defence ministers of the former regime. You, Mr. Gasic, but a former minister in the former government, sitting among us, damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia by 270 million in exchange for exchange rates in the purchase of a mobile radio-real connection system via "Yugochemy", a state auditor's report, published "Evening News" on July 18, 2012, page 17. It wasn't you, Mr. Gasic, but a former minister in the former government, sitting here today among us, who damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia when he paid for the upgrade of the software for VMA 850,000 euros, which is even four times more than the new one cost. It wasn't you, Mr. Minister Gasic who was military, but a former minister in the former government, sitting here today among us, who assigned state affairs of 156 million dinars to his best friend. It wasn't you, Mr. Gasic, but a former minister in the former government, and today he's sitting in the Assembly here with us, from 2008 to 2007 signed several dozen contracts. It is not you, in the end, that Mr. Minister Gasic, but the former minister in the former government, and sitting among us, who retired a large part of the senior staff at the best age, when they were largely capable and experienced. No army has ever done that in the history of war. At the very end, allow me, Mr. Minister, to convey to you the opinion of most Serbian citizens that you have huge support as Minister, Army and Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia. I invite you, Members of the People's Parliament, especially the few of you to stay here tonight from the opposition benches, to support at least these two laws, as you will so little, even thus show that you care for the modernisation of Serbia, which so warmly favours Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic with the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, assisted by Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic and most Serbian citizens, as well as most of the MPs in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20991	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his first in Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go. Your time is five minutes and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20992	Thank you. (Employer of the Serbian Progressive Party, from the post: Be good. You'd be kind enough to warn a gentleman who's letting me be good. If he only wants to raise his hand to see who it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20993	Please, if anyone has made such a request to the MP who is preparing to speak, please don't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20994	Give it back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20995	Sign up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20996	Thank you. I have to say that when I listen to the former minister of the SAO Krajina, who, as well as the people of the Krajina, convinced that what will never happen, just tears come to my eyes and, of course, that's how it happened when such people have a chance to handle it. There was no handling here, there was more... but not to express myself further. Mr. Minister, I don't want to reopen those topics that aren't agenda topics. You didn't give me an answer, which is why I don't know, in accordance with Article 2. The defence law says that the defence of the Republic of Serbia is conducted independently, and can also be implemented in co-operation with other countries within the framework of the institutions of the national defence system, etc. Which is why it is not specified how this co-operation would be conducted, who would be in charge, who would command, who would lead the operational command, because we are witnesses of the general chaos in the state at the time of the flood, of the general chaos of the state? If it hadn't been for the army to help, there'd have been some other places in the Oreenovac. I only remind myself that in this chaos, even one Serbian Parliament speaker was head of the crisis headquarters in Sapac, and he was perhaps the first or second time in his life. So that's the thing the Department of Defense experts have to give an answer to. (Alexander Martinovic, from the city: Is that the topic? Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20997	I ask you, Ambassador Sutanovac, to adapt your address to the agenda and subject on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20998	You're begging me because I'm getting it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u20999	I ask you not to challenge the replicas of the MPs who will rightly answer the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21000	Well, I don't have a problem with replicas. Why, where are you in such a hurry so we can't talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21001	I'm not in a hurry, but I'm asking you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and speak, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the subject on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21002	You've taken my time again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21003	I'll make it up to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21004	Thank you. So I didn't get the answer. If we say that there are military and non-war threats, if it is clearly defined who proposes a strategy of defence, i.e. a strategy of national security and who adopts it, and the non-war threats and asymmetric threats we consider terrorism, organised crime, who proposes a strategy against terrorism, corruption, and who adopts it? Why isn't she included as part of the defense system? I am telling you this with full confidence that you are aware that some of your colleagues participated in these amendments, active officers of the Serbian Army, which is not prohibited, right, to consult on things that are logical. On the other hand, Colonel Nikolic, as far as I know, you were never a prosecutor. Is that right? You were the Supreme Court judge. Now you're an elder of the Military Discipline Court, Mr. Secretary just made a mistake. Mr. Nikolic, tell me you or the minister, where, in what system is there a possibility that someone might be brought in for a disciplinary violation and where is he being brought in? So this is where you said that authorized officials of the military police are acting on the request of a military disciplinary prosecutor and president, or you, for bringing him in. There's nowhere to go. Get some company to commit some disciplinary offense and now someone's bringing him in, I suppose, with the handcuffs, as these stoned 70 and a few dinars. Also, I am convinced, Article 20(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribes that the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced. The previous law defines who can and cannot be a member of a political organisation. You are now reducing the level of human rights within the Ministry of Defense. You're putting state officials working at the Department of Defense in a position to have more human rights than military deputies and military officials. It just can't. It's a thing that can't happen, because otherwise I'm deeply convinced that there will be a trial before the Constitutional Court that will consider this matter. I understand, Mr. Gasic, when you say you spoke to the officers and they told you that, but you don't need the Army Act to regulate the Army itself. You know, it's often said - the army reformed. No, the army hasn't reformed. Civil power reforms the military and gives strategic moves that should enable the military to adequately prepare for the defence of the country...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21005	Time. You got the 15 seconds I took from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21006	Fifteen seconds? How does your time go so fast, Mr. Becic? Here, and I'll, when you tell me what to read, give you a book, just so I know what kind of literature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21007	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. Minister Bratislav Gasic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21008	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, we asked the system. We didn't say that the system passed this law and that the military faces wrote... They did write military faces, but it's not crucial. We asked everyone in the public debate what they thought about the law. State officials are not professional members of the Serbian Army, are officers, officers, military officials and professional soldiers. It was said earlier on by the opposition – so they cannot be denied military persons from being members of a political organisation, and now you say – so it is no good that it is now spreading and depriving those rights, so you must choose what it is. Secondly, Article 2 when it comes to emergency situations, and this member primarily refers to co-operation with countries in the environment when it comes to emergency situations. You know that the Chief of Staff of Emergency is the Prime Minister, so here's the answer to that question you asked me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21009	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. I understand what you're thinking, Mr. Sutanovac, but I could give you a book, which is the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, where we have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I would strongly recommend that you read it as soon as possible. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. I'm badly interpreted. Mr. Sutanovec, let me say something. Mr. Sutanovac, before I consider whether you have the right to a replica, I have before you people who have come forward and have the opportunity to get a replica, so you must be patient, to your exposure, Mr. Sutanovac, you must be patient and wait. [[Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I have the right to a replica. Let me explain.]] Mr. Birman, you have no right to a replica. You know very well that you have no right under the Rules of Procedure, because you are not an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, unfortunately, so you will have to answer Dragan Sutanovac another time. Mr. Zoran Babic has a word, right on the line. Here you go. To your presentation, the client is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21010	Let me explain, Mr. Chairman. I have recognized myself in the words of Mr. Shutanovec, I am this MP of the people. I don't know why Mr. Sutanovac shouldn't mention the name and last name, we don't have a problem here to talk about names and last names, which for a few hours, one short period of time was the head of the crisis headquarters in Capco. I wasn't happy for the last few hours, I was scared to death, but I wouldn't be if the people you supported and you put in Capco and the mayor, so in turn, were acting like we were going to Sava for a fishing and swimming, and not that the Sava at that moment, which was coming, had a level a meter above the historical maximum. I am grateful because those hours, those days I was and I was honored to be part of Mr. Dikovic's team, helping as much as I could, but the basic question -- and where were you? Where were you when Mr. Wolfie was saving children from garbage in Fecketić? Where were you when thousands and thousands of people saved both Obrenovac and Shabac and Krupanj and all those other municipalities and cities that were attacked? Were you busy tweeting or interesting meetings with tycoons on the Kopalnik? Where were you? What contribution did you make? Yes, I was, but much more often in Capco than those one or two times. What did your men do in Capco? They played preferences, solitaire played on computers, and they didn't have two shovels, and they saved the city. What if it hadn't been for Mr. Dikovic's involvement and the military commander's defense of 25 kilometers of Cevrentine and Bedem at Silos in Sapac? It would've been a lot easier if you'd lost social networks and caught shovels, sand and sacks and helped with that job.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21011	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. You have to explain to me why. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place, asked me where I've been ten times and now I have to explain to you if anyone mentioned me.) ) Mr. Sutanovac, it was enough just to say, since you had previously responded to the replica, and now suddenly the basis for the replica is not standing. It is based on Mr. Babic's exposure. Since I've estimated that you have a replica of Mr. Babic's exposure, please, you have a replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21012	How now, you're giving me a line on Mr. Babic's exposure, and I don't want to communicate with him, since the man was head of crisis headquarters, and I wasn't there? As if Sava had only one coast, and the other had no, so, a DS member, Mr. Jesic commanded this other coast, so the other one didn't flood. (Zoran Babic, from the place: where have you been? Don't throw it at me. What's so funny? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21013	Go on, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21014	I'll take the whole night here to talk. Don't be afraid, don't throw it at me. We've got time. Mr Gasic, I am talking about Article 2 that says - the defence of the Republic of Serbia during the emergency situation is being conducted on its own, and can also be carried out in co-operation with other countries. So we're not talking about emergency situations. If we had chaos in emergency situations, do you have any idea what it would be like to now have another country with its army enter Serbia to help us with something, and we haven't defined in the law who would run it in some way, where we would submit, so unless it's an idea, here, General Lackovic is sufling you, it might be an idea to be some sublegal act, so we're going to do something less important. The other thing is, I didn't mix it up, Mr. Minister. I know exactly who the civil servants are, who the military officers are. But I also know that in your tower where you're sitting, and I hear that you're moving now to the old General Staff, that's where you'll look more comfortable, that's where the story is, so there's government officials and military tenants sitting together in the same offices doing almost identical work. Some have respected their human rights to engage politically, to be members, not have to engage, and others do not. Excuse me, how is that possible and how can you now reduce the rights of those to whom rights are already given? I know that's funny to you. I see the secretary of state is laughing too. But I think it's a very important thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21015	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21016	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, can we, Mr. Sutanovac, speak to a lot of people in this assembly without saying anything? Can we talk about something without them telling me this or telling me that, as is happening with the Guardian of Citizens? Is it even possible, as I asked you earlier, that the VBA is listening to anyone on its own? He can't. Does he have equipment for that, Mr. Sutanovac? There isn't. Are there any conditions for the Department of Defense to move to the old General Staff? There isn't. She said, "Subject." Mr. Sutanovac, as your party president, Vany, announced about the Labour Act the other day, so today you're attacking a law that we don't change, which you've passed. Article 2 paragraph 4 is something that's in the old law and we don't change. Now you're asking me to explain something you wrote and you're attacking it. I don't understand. I don't know what to say. What you planned when you brought in Article 2(4), where you say - the defence of the Republic of Serbia is carried out on its own, and can also be carried out in co-operation with other countries within the framework of the institutions of the national, regional and global security system. Come on, enlighten us, tell us what you thought, who's going to command, and I don't mind answering how it is and what was thought in this article, what you were thinking then, now that you're attacking the member that you brought, which we're not changing. All day at the commercials – I have to answer, explain. Nothing General Lackovic is subfling beyond what's written in the papers. That's why they're my associates. I thank them so much. They're here with me for the 11th hour, and I am immensely grateful to all of them for the help they've given me today so that I can talk to you. I wish they had a right and they could answer a lot of things for you. It is certain that much more professional than I would be answered by Colonel Nikolic and General Lackovic and General Zrnić and everyone who is here with me today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21017	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. You don't have a chance again. You can't every time you recognize yourself or when you think you recognize yourself and you can't every time you mention you're talking. You've had plenty of opportunities for a replica today and to say what you thought you should say. I've been mentioned several times. That's not enough. Be patient, you might have a chance. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I'm mentioned offensively.) Here you go, if you care so much. It is to violate the Rules of Procedure, because I allow you today to make something out of the National Assembly and this session that shouldn't be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21018	I'm really trying to go completely according to the law. We're talking about the law. And all these things we're saying are legal. So, why did we put in 2009? Well, we were wrong. What's the problem? I'm sufling you to change, to improve. I gave the order in 2011 to approach the amendment and completion of the Law on the Army and the Defence Act. That's not the problem. Mr. Shuttleman, let me ask you one thing. You are as defence minister obliged and by the constitution, I assume, to tell me if Kosovo citizens are Serbian citizens? They did. Could this device be listening to our citizens? That's what I'm gonna ask you later. We don't have to be here right now. So, I'm talking about something you obviously know less about than I do, and you have a pretense to convince me that I don't. The third thing, apropo said, you were talking today about how we had something to do with the Guardian of Citizens, how we made the whole affair, how we were in the media, yellow, getting high. What are you talking about, sir? You said you'd bring the papers to show that we were involved. So that's what she said. I told you I heard from these generals. There's an office in the old general headquarters. If not, I apologize. Is that a problem? I'm telling you, man, about things that are important to the state, essential, and you bring it all down to me, she said. Well, no, just tell me, give me that paper that shows we have nothing to do with what Ombdusman Jankovic is doing. You just said you were going to give the papers. Give one piece of paper to the public and finally put an end to us being the greatest conspirators to clear the way in front of the Wolf. What does that mean? It's completely pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21019	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21020	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. I warned you today. These are amazing things. This is where total dignity is insulted and fear in the people is spreading. This is where people get to be paranoid. What we've heard now is amazing, and now we find out that someone can listen to us any way they want, and that's what the former defence minister tells us, and that some devices were purchased at the time. I now ask Minister Gasic to tell us whether at that time, during the time of his former MP, when he was a minister, were the citizens tapped? That's when the Citizens' Protector didn't answer once. If that's what's going on right now that you can listen here, apparently VBA is doing it, it seems to me that someone here is trying to bring down the credibility of the VBA, because someone's used to doing it in some previous period. Please, Mr. Gasic, you are here, and so are you, Mr. Chairman, to warn such messengers because they spread panic in the people. It's not normal what's done. Look what we're surviving here, and you, Mr. Gasic, please answer if anyone was really listening to the citizens at the time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21021	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, but I'm also, like you, a citizen, as a member of the Security Control Committee, concerned, because I now see that there's a possibility that someone more knows than we do that something can happen that we don't know. The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21022	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've all heard that someone knows more about listening to citizens than I do. I'm glad to hear that confession. In 2009, the secret device Mr Sutanovac is talking about, without the knowledge of the VBA, which is known to be, quote the report that is currently in the VBA, also given to the knowledge of the VBA sent to VBA and along with mobile phone operators working on Serbia's territory, limited listening to mobile telephony, and only thanks to the people from VBA. That device is in the basement of the VBA and was never put into use after the knowledge of the VBA that it was purchased secretly. I don't know if it's a crime. Let the prosecutors discuss it, but I'm ready, just so I don't jeopardize what's military secret and what's secret, that device stands and is never put to use. That's the truth right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21023	Now as a member of the Security Control Committee, I'm calm, because I know that no matter how expensive it is, that device is out of service. The word has a folk MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, with a time-authorized representative. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: No card. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: The authorised representative is sitting in the hall. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21025	Mr. Sutanovac, I don't see Mr. Djukanovic in the system. Please, Mr. Djukanovic, since I can't see you, Mr. Sutanovac can't see you either. Mr. Martinovic, please sign in again. You have nine minutes and 26 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21026	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Mr. Sutanovac, by his good practice, is nervous, speaking in the bar dictionary, I think that you should have warned him because he was most wrongly expressing himself about Professor Mark Atlagic, telling him that he was some kind of minister in SAO Krajina. As far as I'm concerned, I'm proud to be a colleague of Mr. Atlagic, who was one of those Serbs, whose activities prevented him from repeating himself in the Serbian Krajina in 1941. As for the questions asked today by the Secretary of Defense, I will look back on just some of them. Those who ask how much the military parade costs don't ask that because they are really interested in the figures, they ask how much the military parade costs because they can't publicly say they're against the military parade, because they were against the Serbian Army showing the state of their battletime after years and because they can't publicly say they're against the presence of Russian Federation President Vladimir Vladimirović Putin, so because of the fear of it, they ask how much it costs. I can tell you right now that it costs a lot less than all these malfeasances and machinations pointed to by my colleagues, which he was involved in, and up to his neck involved, and Mr. Sutanovac. As for the Guardian of Citizens and Secret Documents, i.e. documents bearing a code of secrecy, what MPs of the former regime are persistently trying to hide from citizens, this is the following: The Protector is a state body like all other state bodies; it is part of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia; it is covered by all laws relating to all other state bodies, including, as Minister Gasic explained well, and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Protector of the Citizens is not infallible. As far as I know, there is only one man in today's world who a part of humanity thinks is infallible, which is the head of the Roman Catholic Church. This dogma was founded in 1870, on the so-called The first Vatican council, when a dogma was adopted about the fact that the Pope could not be wrong when he spoke of religious issues of the “ex cathedral. ” All other people, as far as I know, are able to make mistakes, including the Guardian of Citizens. What the MPs of the former regime are also trying to hide from the citizens, is that the Guardian of Citizens cannot come into any body of the administration, not to the Ministry of Defence, and not to the VBA and say – give me all the papers for insight, I have come into some kind of preventive control. There is a Law on the Protector of Citizens that regulates the procedure under which the Protector of Citizens acts. The Protector himself tells him – he protects citizens from the so-called "citizens". Bad administrations and he's handling complaints from citizens about the work of the administration's authority. He does not have the right to exercise general control over all documents owned by the Ministry of Defence and all documents owned by the VBA, especially those bearing the mark that they are confidential or that they are strictly confidential. That thing's completely clear. As far as secret documents are concerned, I am simply surprised that former regime MPs, some of whom were ministers, some of whom cheered and dressed Serbian years ago, do not know that, for example, Great Britain still today has secret World War II documents and will not reveal them. There is no protection of citizens in the UK or anywhere on the globe that can force the U.K. Ministry of Defence or the U.K. Foreign Ministry to reveal certain documents from World War II. You had one British secret service Special Operations Executive which played a direct role in the UK's 1943 foreign policy, instead of continuing to support Draža Mihajlovic's move to the party side. These documents are secret and no one in the UK thinks to talk about it. Why? Because it's believed to be in the state interest. In Serbia alone, it is possible that someone thinks it is in the state interest to give you all documents that bear the mark confidential, military secret, military secret internally, or strictly confidential. Here, the former defence minister spoke so sneerly of himself as to how someone brought someone into the disciplinary process. Let's remind ourselves, I'm sorry, who brought in such a bestial way as Slobodan Milosevic, without any legal basis? How did General Zdravko Tolimir end up in Republika Srpska overnight, to determine that he was not arrested in Serbia, but that he was allegedly arrested in Republika Srpska? A man who's seriously ill, who's been transported over the Drina. You too today... What about the Banovic brothers who were so brutally beaten? What about many other cases in which the former regime participated without having a legal basis for such treatment? As for listening, I am glad that the Democratic Party and this Social Democratic Party have returned to their communist roots. The communists, you know, loved to accuse each other of listening. Now I don't know if Sutanovac or Marko Djurisic, who's Alexander Rankovic here, and who's Joseph Broz Tito? I advise them to ask the new president of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, to allow them to organise a new tide on Brions, so that they can agree on which to listen. To remind you, Rankovic fell and lost all state functions in 1966, at the Brion Plenum of the Central Committee of the Communists of Yugoslavia, because he was indicted by Tito and his peaks for allegedly listening to Joseph Broz. It's a favorite topic in these parties of communist orientation, so it would be good to organize some new tide and agree on who was listening. The defence minister today has shown in a convincing way that the documents show that the VBA has not been listening to anyone or intending to listen to anyone. This is where the former defence minister said - show us the paper. I am now asking the former defence minister and all MPs of the former regime, show us the paper that the VBA has been listening to anyone, except that Bojan Pajtic, at the session of the main board of DS in Krusevec, presented that truth, that the VBA allegedly listens to union leaders and the leaders of the opposition. Listen, we're listening to the leaders of the opposition who all together give God that if elections were to be called, she'd switch 5%. You are so powerful that, imagine, VBA must be listening to Dragan Sutanovac, Bojan Pajtic, Curisic, Janko Veseinović, Dusan Petrovic, etc. It's nonsense. Mr. Gasic, I want to repeat that the SNS will vote in favour of both draft laws. I want to thank you and to repeat what Mr. Marijan Risticevic said, that you have managed to maintain a high level of trust in the Serbian Army that has almost the same level of trust in the people as the SPC, thank you for that. Continue further reforms in the army. Serbia needs a strong and well-organised army.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21027	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Sutanovac, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21028	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen, I am not ashamed of my political past, the DS has no roots in communism, on the contrary, the DS leaders were fighters against communism. I wonder if the esteemed colleague who spoke before me is still ashamed of his past radical, or still has the same attitude toward the advanced party he spoke of while he was in radicals, no matter how many months after he moved to SNS? Not for a moment, gentlemen. Officers, first of all, Mr. Secretary, I didn't say VBA was listening. I said yes. And not only that, since it's in Parliament's debate it's quite a low level if we narrow down one agency's activities to a secret control of phone conversations. In the BIA law, we have defined exactly what measures and tracking are, and secret recording and various things that exist as a possibility. Whether there is a possibility – there is. I can't say it, I can't say it, I can't say it, I don't want to think it is. But the way today's debate about something that is not the point of the agenda indicates that there is a problem. Is it a matter of smoke and fire, but there's definitely a problem, and I think it'll be a lot easier for you and all of us to solve this problem as soon as possible, to put it in an ad act. But we can't talk about it here if DS isn't a party, which VBA would follow us, etc. We've seen these manners before, and I believe they're gone, but what would we trust now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21029	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21030	One more thing, if you'll excuse me, one sentence. Mr. Minister, we've submitted about 20 or more amendments. We don't mind these laws, on the contrary, if you respect our amendments and show flexibility, and I say you know, the amendments have been written by people who are professional, even more acts than your colleagues who are here today, than all together, we can support the law. If you don't respect me, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21031	That's what we'll discuss in detail. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica. That closes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right now I really wouldn't be entering these ideological conflicts in the DS -- are they communists or are they not communists? Here, I will read you today's statement by Borko Stefanovic, head of the DS parliamentary group, which says – DS should go more to the left and be a party that propagates social justice, the fight of a small man against large capital, something like Greek Sirize. What's communist here, what's anti-Communist, I leave it to the MPs of the DS to... (Dragan Sutanovac, from the place: The party is mentioned twice. Yes, yes, I mentioned it twice, Mr. Becic, DS, and please record it. I just don't know if she's communist or anti-Communist. It would be good for Mr. Sutanovac to explain it. As for my political past, Mr. Sutanovac, I'll tell you the next thing. In 2003, when Vojislav Seselj... Don't speak to me, Mr. Chairman. He's talking to me directly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21033	Please, Mr. Sutanovac, you were carefully listened to as you explained the replica. Don't be afraid of what Mr. Martinovic would say. Let Mr. Martinovic finish, so we close the circle of replicas and finish the session. Mr. Martinovic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21034	So, since Mr. Sutanovac mentioned my political past, in 2003, Mr. Sutanovac, I hope you remember that, Vojislav Seselj said he was going to The Hague to defeat The Hague tribunal and leave us to defeat the Dossman regime. It turns out that the Dosmanli regime was defeated by Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, and the SRS, and now also showed this latest reconstruction of the province's government, became a mere tool in the hands of the DS. That's one of the reasons why I left the SRS. That I mentioned DS, Mr. Sutanovac... Dear Shutanovac, from the place: time! )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21035	You took his time, Mr. Sutanovac, while you were in and out of place. Here you go. Finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21036	The truth is, I mentioned DS, Mr. Becic, it would just be good for the DS gentlemen to explain to us whether they are a capitalist party, a Communist party, what they really stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21037	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Balsa Bozovic appears.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21038	Mr Bečiću, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is injured by Article 107, and it is a matter of dignity of the National Assembly, for the simple reason that you have allowed Mr Martinovic to insult all members and members of the DS, on the one hand. On the other hand, if he is ashamed of Serbia's anti-fascist history...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21039	Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. You want to abuse the Rules of Procedure, use the right to harm the Rules of Procedure, and I won't let you do that. We've closed the circle of replicas. The word has Bratislav Gasic, minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21040	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I spoke earlier about the stories of saying-telling, so someone comes out with little responsibility and accuses the army of this and that, and we don't want this, and we don't want to cooperate with those, so the government of the ship or the government of the shade can criticise and give some of its solutions. But I am very pleased that a top legal expert has confirmed my facts today in a legally valid manner and I am very pleased with today’s debate. I thank all my associates and thank you all for the time we've spent here today and discussed for the Army of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence with very important laws. I hope we have such a constructive debate that we have whenever the army of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence are at stake. Thank you again very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-26-0.u21041	Thank you, Mr. Gasic. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We continue our work on Wednesday, January 28, 2015, with a start at 10.00 hours, a discussion in particular. Thank you.
