ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 115 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The word is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22091	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I'd just like some attention. What I would like to ask the government of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health, is one question that I was already asking here a few months ago on the tide, which concerns the health insurance of farmers. Then I received an answer that by New Year's Eve a certain commission will be formed in front of two ministries that will come up with a proposal for a huge number of families in Serbia, farmers who have no opportunity in 2015 to verify the health book. For the sake of citizens watching this transmission and for fellow Members of Parliament, let me just say it in a few sentences. Unfortunately, farmers are about the only citizens of the second row in Serbia, because they are the only ones currently in the situation that if they want to verify a health book for themselves or for a family member, they must first pay all debts from previous years. I ask all of us - is it normal for someone to verify a book for themselves or for their child to first conflict to pay for the tight interest of 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 or 2014? I find it deeply unfair, incorrect, and I think it's high time for the rest of the ministries to come up with a clear proposal on how they will solve this suffering if we all know that 2014 was extremely bad for farmers, that we have had all the basic disasters, that these people, unfortunately, are paying 96,000 dinars per year for health and social security, that unfortunately, the same obligation is for farmers who have 50 acres of land, and for example. 200 acres of land. I believe that a certain scale should be introduced in a clear way to define the obligations that smaller farmers have fewer obligations, and of course those who have more than 100 hectares, have more payments. It is important that this issue is constantly being pursued because farmers are also these days, particularly cattle farmers in the extremely difficult situation with the prices currently on the meat market, and this is where the Committee on Agriculture of the Serbian Parliament called for responsibility, in particular the Minister of Trade for the current situation that is happening on the market, primarily live scales of the passengers, and this is all the things that lead to us in the second month of 2015, having to pray and appeal to the competent ministries to help people at least achieve their basic insurance, which is health insurance, and above all to enable them, if there can be no write-off from previous years, to at least freeze that debt and to be able to pay people in one or two wars, insurance for the current year, and thus to resolve obligations both themselves and their families. Another question that I have, above all for the Ministry of Health, is it – will in 2015 be resolved by mutual recognition of health insurance with the Swiss Confederation, pensioners' insurance, because we have a large number of pensioners who have acquired this right in Switzerland, as gastabitters of Serbia, today live in all municipalities and cities in Serbia, and unfortunately, in order to acquire health insurance they have to allocate around 10.6% of their pensions? What's important is that citizens should know that people who made a pension in Austria, for example. or Germany, because of the mutual coordination between Serbia and these countries, do not have to pay any additional taxes or insurance for their pensions, and unfortunately only applies to Switzerland or, for example, to Switzerland. U.S.A. As I come from Topola, in which there are a large number of Swiss pensioners, I would ask the Resolute Ministry to take care of this and to settle these issues with Switzerland as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22092	The word is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22093	Dear Presidents, honourable fellow MPs, representatives of the interest of Serbian citizens, I was asked by a group of intellectuals and novelists from Novi Pazar to remind me of a tragic event in which a wonderful man, who owed the country's entire cultural public, lost his life. It's about Hussein Derdemez, a teacher who spent his entire working life studying, but also passing knowledge in a village town, in a village in the Municipality of Sjenica, called Bare. He's remembered as someone who's not only a teacher, but who's collected what they say is the largest number of folk motifs, anecdotes, beautiful stories from the field in the last 100 years. I have to say, it's the man who owed the end, and he specifically marked and owed the Bosniak cultural ethos, but he also owed the Serbian tradition. I must tell you that, thanks to him, they are read today, and today they know of some of the most beautiful stories about the Holy Savi, who, you know, lived alone and was born on that ground. What is extremely important is that, in addition to this magnificent effect on the common cultural being and the common cultural heritage, it did not remain infertile. He wrote several collections of stories and songs of extremely high quality and beauty. Unfortunately, I have to say that in 2011, in a tragic robbery of his home, he was badly injured and he's losing his life and no murderer has been found to this day. The value of his work and its importance for the culture of this country also speaks of the fact that today at the University of Novi Pazar two papers, two doctoral studies are dedicated and are working on his contribution and his literary and creative collection corps. I would therefore like to ask the Ministry of the Interior as far as this investigation has arrived and to ask Minister Stefanovic, whose honesty and ability I deeply believe, to personally engage in this case to be resolved as soon as possible. The people who owe this country and all of us must not be forgotten. The injustices made by these people have a special weight and especially bitter taste they leave in our mouths. Long ago it was said that the eyes of the victims would not close until justice was done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22094	Thank you. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22095	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, I ask my first question to the Ministry of Finance, and to say that this is a common issue and a joint proposal for a non-governmental organisation, the Trag Foundation and 114 associations. The proposal is as follows: the Law on corporate tax should amend Article 15(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to amend Article 15(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law, in order to equate social service providers, I mean both institutions and associations, and to bring this law into line with the Social Protection Act, which it is in collegiate with. According to the Social Protection Act, social service providers have been equated, while these other laws do not enjoy equal treatment and there is a right of cohesion when it comes to associations and institutions providing social protection. The initiative would include a change of article 44 of the same law, which would increase expenditure revenue, which was achieved on the market from 400,000 to 600,000 dinars. Given that the Law on property taxes has not yet been on the agenda of the Assembly session, this is a good opportunity to seriously consider this proposal. My question is, can this initiative go by and does the Ministry of Finance think seriously about this proposal and if we could have an answer to this failure we've had so far? My second question could be asked at the same time by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, but it is still closest to the resolution ministry, the Ministry of Culture and Information, and that is why I am setting it up to Mr. Tasovac and the competent ministry - what happens to the property-legal status of the "Vojvodjanski dilog" and will this problem be solved in a policy package he deals with, should I say, a special commission? The issue of "Dnevnik" as read and brand is of the same regional importance as "Politics" at the level of the Republic. As someone who comes from Vojvodina, I can't help but remember the importance of "Dnevnik" once had, at least when it comes to Vojvodina, given that this is after "Politics" the oldest printed media in the country. I would use the time I have left, I hope these MPs, my colleagues, and all the other officials, take seriously, we live in extremely difficult times, in times where almost every day on the front page in the media we have children waiting for help to survive and to stay alive. Unfortunately, we are witnessing various difficult stories and various difficult events in the past that have upset all of us living in this country. That's why I would like to invite all my colleagues, my friends, and all those who are public figures, who in politics have the opportunity to help, to take a small step, which is small for all of us, but great for those whom this help could be significant sometimes. A small step is to show, together with our own example, how important our children are to us and to our organs and thus show how much we really think about our families and children and, in the end, about our country. I think it's the least we can do, and I'm sure every citizen will appreciate it, no matter what political party it comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22096	Thank you. The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22097	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Vukic, or Minister of Finance of the Republic of Serbia. It's a question I ask on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A list of analyses by the Washington-based "Kayto" Institute, according to which Serbia is on the list of the world's poorest countries, in seventh place, therefore among the world's seven poorest countries. In front of us are, say, Venezuela, where Hugo Chavez is no longer in power, Argentina, Syria, in which war is fought, Ukraine, Iran and Sao Tome and Principe. So we are a poorer country almost than all European countries, that is, its citizens and one of the world's poorest countries. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, given that we do not live, Serbian citizens on pink television, but in an environment in which life, the average consumer basket costs according to the latest data from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications of 66.119 dinars. So, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia needs to feed his three-member family of 66,119 dinars, and the average salary, therefore, is the latest of November, and according to the same ministry, the average salary in the Republic of Serbia is 44,206 dinars. I ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic -- how come a family that receives an average salary of 44,206 dinars, and now I'm going to ask the citizens of Serbia how many of them are receiving such a salary, from what source to make up for these 22,000 they lack to feed their family? I ask this especially because one and a half salaries are needed for the consumer basket according to the Department of Trade. However, millions and 50,000 pensioners, this is the data Mr. Vukic gave, receiving a pension of less than 25 thousand. I ask Mr. Vukic, how does he think that a million and 50,000 pensioners who need four pensions to feed their family, how does he think they survive from 1st to 30th? I particularly ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, and the finance minister, that they think that workers who receive a salary of between 20 and 30 000, and who, according to some estimates, are 60% in Serbia, how can they feed their family when they are missing 30,000 a month? Who will give them the 30,000 and how will they meet the end of the month with their family? I ask the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister - do they know how much a liter of yogurt costs? A liter of milk costs 107 dinars. Do they know what it costs to pack diapers? I'll tell them - 1,690 dinars. I ask the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister - do they know how many bags of diapers a family needs from 1st to 30th? I'm asking the Prime Minister, does he know how much it costs a kilo of colorful beans? A kilo of white beans costs 339 dinars. Someone tells me -- how can one family with 20 or 30,000 salaries, and that they have two such salaries, put together a 1st with a 30th a month? What does he think he's doing? How does he feel about leading this government in the coming period so that we don't survive?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22098	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a question? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22099	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the issues that is for a reason concerned by all members of the national minorities, and I believe the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is also the degree of ethnic distance between the majority Serb people and minority communities. The social distance defined as a measure of the proximity or distance of individuals or individuals in relation to a social or ethnic group depends on an emotional component of ethnic attitudes, which is considered to affect the occurrence of prejudice. In its third report on Serbia, the Council Committee of the Framework Convention particularly points out interethnic relations between individuals in Serbia are also a major issue of concern by the Advisory Committee. The consequences of Yugoslavia's disintegration and the bloody conflicts that took place on this occasion have created a strong and, unfortunately, persistent sense of ethnic distance among different national groups. The advisory committee is concerned that xenophobia and religious intolerance are becoming relatively widespread. The highest level of ethnic distance is expressed against ethnic Albanians, Croats, Roma and Bosniaks. Social distance as a variable category that is often influenced by mass communication means, but also by other factors, I am sure it has not been reduced today, especially not to Albanians according to whom a large number of means of mass communication, but often also statements by high-ranking state officials, refer to already known prejudices and stereotypes. The ethnic distance, among other factors, is a huge obstacle to affirmation and the achievement of individual and collective rights. That is why my question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is – does the Government of the Republic of Serbia already have or will it form a special strategy for reducing ethnic distance? My second question is for the Minister of Education – when will the competition for the admission of an educational inspector with the knowledge of Albanian language for the school district of Leskovac be announced, since the previous educational inspector was retired in May 2014? Let me remind you, the minister himself here in front of us has promised to resolve the issue at the beginning of the school year, which meant in September 2014. It is now February 2015, and this issue has not been resolved. My third question concerns the Home Secretary. January 20th. In 2013, the gendarmes removed and confiscated the monument of former OVPMB fighters placed outside the SO Presevo building. The reason for this action, as it was officially transmitted at the time, is the failure to implement administrative procedures. Given that the monument itself is not the subject of a criminal offence, but as it is said to be not conducting administrative procedures, and it is unfairly considered to be held in our unknown location. My question to the police minister is – when will the Ministry of Police return the monument to Presevo municipality, to create conditions to carry out administrative procedures and legalize the setting up of that monument? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22100	Thank you. You can't, you've announced Mr. Stefanovic, there's a businessman named Ivan Jovanovic here. Excuse me, this is your signature. There is a time when you handed over to the office on February 10th, authorised MP Ivan Jovanovic, asking a question at a session of the National Assembly on February 10th 2015 and you signed, Mr Stefanovic. Who else answered the question? The word has a National MP, Sinisa Maksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22101	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable fellow MPs, I address Minister of Health Dr Zlatibor Loncar, with a question relating to state pharmacies from the network plan and their survival in the current difficult circumstances generated by the conduct of the new RFZO policy. It is, in fact, that the sustainability of state pharmacies and the sustainability of a socially responsible network of pharmacies is at stake, and I will explain this in the presentation. In Rasinski County, the environment from which I come, consisting of six municipalities: Kruševac, Aleksandrovac, Brus, Ćićivac, Varvarin and Trstenik, pharmaceutical health care is provided to residents by the Health Institute “Apothecary Kruševac” and has, like most other state pharmacies, nurtured the principles of maximum social and social responsibility, developed a wide network of pharmacies, branches and stations in cities and villages, at the same time working to improve the quality and general satisfaction of the population. The Health Institute “Apotheka Kruševac” continuously improves all its quality of services in the area of the entire Rasin County, both technical and professional. Service users recognized this institution as a leader in pharmaceutical healthcare and recognized its quality as being assessed each year with the highest possible grades. The Health Institute “Apothecary Kruševac” is based on the principle of social responsibility, which means primarily social responsibility. This institution implements a policy of absolute availability, timelyness and equality in all six municipalities of Rasin County, both in the village and in the city. State pharmacies institutions are self-financed and the only source of income, which has the RFZO to earn employees and cover all other material costs, is the margin for issued medicines and help on prescription. The margin is 12% of the price of medicines and 4% of the price of aid aid. This small margin covers a small part of the cost. I cite the example from “Apothecary Kruševac”, for 2015 only 45% of the basic costs are planned and feasible. So far, the primary pharmaceutical mission has been maximumly preserved, but due to the longer crisis in the pharmaceutical sector, which has been primarily generated by RFZO decisions, the business of state pharmacies institutions in Serbia has been greatly compromised. Since we know that every day more and more private pharmacies are opening up, and we're not against it, on the contrary, but private pharmacies are mostly opening up in the busiest places and private pharmacies have no other responsibility than profits. I also call on private pharmacies to include those in this social, social responsibility so that they can participate that all citizens in the Republic of Serbia can receive medicines where they live, i.e. Where there's a health care facility. The state must provide all citizens with the same level of health care through the protection of medicines and through the provision of medical and health services. I ask the Minister of Health – does the ministry have a plan for further functioning of pharmaceutical institutions in Serbia, and in the interest of all citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22102	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22103	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as regards agriculture. When we adopted the 2015 budget, the incentives for agriculture were reduced by about six billion. At the time, the Minister of Agriculture claimed that this would in no way affect farmers and that they would be supported by the state and that they would not be threatened by their activity and their incomes. Today, we see that agriculture is in an extremely difficult position, and throughout Serbia, farmers are desperate and complain about the second stage of a kind of coup against their standard. The purchase price of milk in Serbia has been reduced from four to seven dinars and farmers cannot pay the loans they took to raise that production. Farmers have no one to turn to, since it's obvious for them that the Minister of Agriculture does not interfere in his business. For this reason, I want to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia - what will it do to protect farmers from the unfair import lobby, from competition they cannot send away? What will it do to prevent cartels from shutting down agricultural production in Serbia? If we know that farmers are under unfavourable loans, green credits from banks, they took money to raise their production, it's very difficult to pay off these purchases of milk and keep them alive. The price of milk is not the only problem. Today the price of cattle is at an extremely low level. Pigs are sold for less than 100 dinars in Serbia or no one will buy them. That's another problem. Farmers can't shut down their production for cattle, which they want to sell out because of the low prices of the ransom, to get money that they can afford to pay off their loans and make sure they can survive in such a difficult economic situation. What will the Government of the Republic of Serbia do for farmers in Serbia? How does it plan to prevent an import lobby, cartels that exist in agricultural production in Serbia from completely destroying Serbian peasants and agricultural production in our country? Is there a buy-in planned through the stock reserves? Is there any plan for our citizens dealing with agriculture? The second issue concerns also the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today, an affair opens on the appointment of Minister Selakovic's uncle in "The Railways of Serbia". A question for the government - how is it possible that this is happening if the government implements reforms? How is it possible that this is happening in a company that has problematic public procurement, we saw it yesterday on the Committee on Finance, concerning Prokop? Does the government know what's going on in her public enterprises? Are new jobs only for officials of ruling parties, their relatives and party activists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22104	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22105	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, as long as it has arrived with the determination of facts and circumstances relating to numerous malfeasances and crimes committed on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, particularly at the Vojvodine Development Bank, the Vojvodina Capital Investments Fund, the Vojvodine AP Development Fund and the Regional Secretariat for Science and Technological Development. The Serbian Progressive Party has repeatedly presented the knowledge we have, that the citizens of Vojvodina, since 2000, and especially since 2004, have been systematically robbed here by a political set that has been in continuance of the government of Vojvodina for 15 years. Today, it was said about how much beans cost, how much the consumer basket is, and the SNS is asking this question to finally determine that the difficult economic and financial situation that, unfortunately, exists today in Serbia, so in Vojvodina, as an integral part of Serbia, is actually due to an incredible haughtiness, an incredible policy of robbing its own citizens, which has been carried out and being carried out today for 15 years. We talked about it a few times here in the National Assembly. The Home Secretary talked about it. We have determined on several occasions our knowledge that there have indeed been numerous violations of the law, numerous violations of the Public Procurement Act, that contracts were concluded fictitiously, that commissions were taken, that the works provided for in the contract were not carried out or were executed after the deadline. We talked about the fact that certain banks, which were formed by the Region government, led by Bojan Pajtic, such as "Tesla Banka" in Zagreb, served exclusively for money laundering purposes. At the same time, one person was the chairman of the Vojvodine Development Bank Supervisory Board and a member of the Tesla Bank administration in Zagreb, individual tycoons in Vojvodina and van Vojvodina had the exclusive right to perform construction work on the territory of the AP Vojvodina and when it comes to low construction and when it comes to high construction, and all of these illegalities were systematically robbed by the citizens of Vojvodina. To the most extent, the result of such behaviour is the difficult economic and financial situation in which our country is located, where our economy is, and also the economy in the AP Vojvodina. Our question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior – how long has it been since all these facts and circumstances have been identified? As long as it came with finding those who are responsible for one in the history of the unremembered robbery of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, which unfortunately happens today and which has in fact led the government of the Republic of Serbia into a situation that must take painful and difficult cuts that are currently affecting all citizens of Serbia, which are the result of one robbery, a completely missed economic and financial policy that has been conducted in Serbia since 2002, and has been working in the AP Vojvodina for 15 years now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22106	Thank you. We're going back to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Gordana Čomić, Dragan Sutanovac, Suzana Spasojevic, Dubravka Filipovski, Miroslav Markicevic, Zlata Djeric, Prof. Dr. Branko Djurović and Olena Papuga. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to discuss proposals for acts from the agenda set out in the Government's request for an extraordinary session. The minutes of the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, as well as the minutes of the session of the First, Second and Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, held on 26, 28 and 29 December 2014. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 20 of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 12th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I am voting on the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 15 and 19 January 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstention – voted 19 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 19 and 21 January 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – voted 20 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held on 22 and 23 January 2015. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, no one, with abstentions, voted 21 of the total of the 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, together with a meeting of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, which was called upon by the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you received a request for the maintenance of an extraordinary session in 2015, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2015, the next Dn e n i r e d 1 was determined. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation, 2. Proposal for amendments to the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State ownership and registration of vessels. National MP Dr Vladimir Orlic proposed to the Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on:Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation, Proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State belonging and registration of a vessel. National MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic doesn't want a word. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – voted 20 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Prof. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Dejan Trifunović State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Leposava Sojić Assistant Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and Veljko Kovacević adviser at the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, Proposal for amendments to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Water and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State belonging and entering a vessel. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22107	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Mrs Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I believe that members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured 27th to 31st in relation to the actions of the National Assembly president. I believe that these members are injured by the fact that today, for 15 times in a row, MP Zoran Zivkovic has been prevented from entering a large hall, honored gentlemen, despite regularly applying for participation in the debate, in order to contribute to our dialogue here being more quality, to adopt respected Members of the People's Parliament, the best possible laws in our National Assembly. I propose that you allow Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic to participate in today's debate on behalf of the protection of the rule of law and constitutionality. Dear gentlemen and esteemed presidents of the National Assembly, the measure of distance from the session of the Assembly and the assembly bodies of anyone who harshly criticises the Progressive Authority has become a practice here. We have yesterday's example that from the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds is a remote citizen supervisor, Mr. Dobrisinovic, because he pointed to the accidental spending of public funds. I think it is necessary for you to react to this inappropriate practice to begin by allowing MP Zoran Zivkovic to carry out his duties in our National Assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22108	I will not answer you to this auctioning violation of the Rules of Procedure, because the breach of the Rules of Procedure must be done immediately. The sentence refers to something that was said before, I mean, 15 working days, but you listed it in your speech. The institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure has been kind of abused, but I'm not going to answer that. Do you want to vote? No, I don't. ) The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22109	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the 15th time, we're listening to the same advertising. I advertise art. 103, 107 and 113. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As an MP, I am against the dragon measures prescribed by Article 113. So, I advocate that the future of such dragon penalties do not exist, that the MP who is away from the session will be punished with 20 days of work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, but I can also support the position and freedom of expression, but I must say that this Rules of Procedure, which were brought five years ago, has brought a party whose list Mr. Pavicevic has been elected and I think that he has violated his dignity by respecting us for having violated freedom of expression, that we have acted Draconically because of the swearings sent to the session, forgetting that he was elected on the list of parties that brought this Rules of Procedure. So I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. A team before Mr Pavicevic knew very well that the party that brought this Rules of Procedure then thought it would rule forever and distanced the entire parliamentary groups from the session of the National Assembly. I can't believe Mr Pavicevic is trying to tell us that he's elected on the list of parties that suppress freedom of expression in the longer term and that he's chosen on a list of parties that bear a name in their name alone - a democratic one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22110	Do you want us to vote for the injury? No, I don't. ) Does the proposing representative, Professor Zorana Mihajlović, want a word? The word is Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22111	Dear People's MPs, there are three laws in front of you on amendments and additions to the law, which include sailing and ports on internal waters, sea navigation and state belongings and vessel registration. What I want to point out in particular, and we are going to talk today, and even when the amendments are in particular, is that water traffic in Serbia today is only 4.7% of transport, and that is something that we as a state should fix and certainly increase that share because it is several times less than in EU countries, without talking about some countries, such as the Netherlands, where that share is almost 40%. Serbia's opportunities are high in this regard. What particularly sets out these three laws, i.e. amending and supplementing the laws, is that they are not only in line with European directives, but have been harmonised, in particular amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Navigation, with the international, or the Convention on International Labour, which is why Serbia has received certain praises. When we talk, the first changes and additions to the law concern so-called. Port concessions. We are a country today that must say that our ports are neither technologically nor technologically ready, so to speak, to come out or be part of the European market because the infrastructure itself in those ports is over 30 years old. I'm going to give you an example that only cranes are in the ports of some over 50 years old. That's why they go to other countries very often, because they don't want to spend any money or their time. It certainly takes modernization of ports, ports, it takes a more modern and better fleet to be somehow shoulder-to-shoulder with other states. We also need to do everything, and that is why there is a water traffic development strategy that this government has brought, to take advantage of so-called water traffic development strategy. Corridor 7, or the Danube Corridor. Serbia has a great position, a strategic position that, in every sense, its infrastructures, whether we talk about transport infrastructures or others, must take advantage of. Everything that we bring in this sense, whether from strategies, action plans or amendments and amendments to the law, is about taking advantage of our position, raising our infrastructure, and thus raising economic growth and being sufficiently recognizable so that we can be competitive as a state. I wish all of us a successful debate and, of course, a successful amendment. I believe that you will also notice that let's say this first law, amendments and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports, along with a number of sublegal acts that need to be done, I can say that half of these sublaws have already been made, and that's the practice of my ministry that when it gives laws or amendments and amendments to the law don't only go with it, but it goes with part of the sublaws prepared, so that these laws can actually be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22112	Do the officials of the committees want words? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22113	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting on the position of the Assembly Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, which has discussed the contents of all three legislative proposals, which are on the agenda at today's session. This was also presented in detail with all three legislative proposals, followed by a broad discussion following the examination of the proposed objectives and the frameworks set for the results expected from implementation, with the proposed results, i.e. the expected objectives, further amendments have been considered. It has been found that a number of them have been adopted and have been found to be aware of the content of these amendments that the list refers to what has been stated as basic quality and legal solutions themselves, which are, above all, to compliance with exceptional international standards and elsewhere, but not less important, compliance with domestic laws. Both aspects were further expanded, and in this regard, after answering the questions and ending the discussion, all representatives of the board, without exception, expressed support for the proposed legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22114	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, report for a word? The word is Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22115	Dear Presidents, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support the amendments and supplement all three laws in the voting day. What I would like to point out in my personal name and on behalf of my parliamentary group as a couple, above all, are suggestions for a respected minister, and I will present it today. First of all, on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Navigation, I brought up on this morning and on the Committee of Resorts, which my esteemed colleague mentioned, for the infrastructure I have made certain remarks that I must simply make to you and expect from you, above all, correct answers to the questions asked. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Maritime Navigation, the most important thing in this law that we are changing is to meet people who work on overseas ships, it is estimated that there are about 5,000 and is estimated after the adoption of this law, when this law takes effect that this number can be increased to 7,000, to be even with their colleagues from countries that already have adopted and ratified such laws. Let me explain to the citizens who are watching what this really means. I think everyone in this room knows someone who works on an overseas ship. What I'm worried about is, these people need the home state of Serbia to get what's called the so-called. I.D. cards. Those I.D. cards are kind of a passport. I also expressed that as a big concern on the board, it is a dissuasion that the deadline for the adoption of these amendments where the identification cards are mentioned is moved for 1 January 2018. I think that amendments have already been tabled in this regard and I think that, Madam Minister, you should take into account, first of all, we adopt this law by an urgent procedure, by amending the law, and by an urgent procedure we adopt amendments to the law that will take effect on 1 January 2018. What you have given as an explanation in the amendment proposal is that it is necessary for the Port Captain of Belgrade to technically prepare to be able to issue these so-called so-called. I.D. cards. In particular, because of fellow MPs, it is a kind of passport. Now it happens in practice that our people who work as technical staff or waiters on board ships, when a ship comes to a certain port without these cards can't get off the ship, but, unlike their colleagues, they stay on board. Another problem is that many countries have passed special laws in the fight against terrorism, and indeed our people are neither guilty nor in debt, in a certain way being spurned because they are from Serbia and because we can't introduce these so-called for years. identification cards, which would actually be the passport of each of those people who are some kind of sailors on overseas ships. The explanation that I received from your associates is that, therefore, the Port Authority of Belgrade, which this document should issue, is not technically equipped, but I would remind both you and fellow MPs that we have passed various laws here, and on the protection of stray dogs, and on all others, for which no money has been found in this country. I don't see it, if it's Serbia's MUP, and it's a kind of passport, it's already issuing these new so-called. Biometric passports, why can't we from the MUP and someone at least shorten this deadline for a year? I think this is really unfair and that this deadline, with the help of the Ministry and the authorities, would have to be shortened to help these people. The explanation that something will come into effect on 1 January 2018, and it is, once again, about 5,000 people, estimates today in 2015, and that the figure can possibly be increased to 7,000 people. I don't think that's a big number, and we can meet these people. Since it's a principle debate, there will be an opportunity in particular to talk more about this topic. First of all, when it comes to amending and supplementing the second law, it's the Law on sailing, ports and inland waters, I would say certain things that concern, first of all, jurisdiction. To me, Your Honor, one thing, I must say, it's not clear. We are constantly talking about agencies in this House, and we are constantly talking about how we have too many agencies, how these agencies have multiplied during the previous government as mushrooms after the rain, and constantly, when we bring either new laws or amendments or additions to existing laws, new agencies always appear and always these agencies have so great powers that it is more unsustainable. In my opinion, if we have a port management agency now again that has, in my opinion, even greater powers than it has a resolute ministry, we simply wonder - could a certain directorate be formed, could only the Ministry control the operation of the port? We have different experiences. We have countries that are continental, such as Hungary, or which have access to the sea, such as Croatia, which have delivered this jurisdiction or, let's say, have delegated port captains to manage it, and we are so easily forming some new agencies. I think it's something that we all should think about together. Of course, the Ministry will have interference over the personal solutions in the agencies, but I believe, if it hadn't already gone directly to the Port Captains, that there could have been a solution to be either a directorate or to remain in the membership of the Ministry itself and that we simply don't have an agency. As for more onions, I'd like to stay a little longer. We're all aware of the problems we've had in the privatisation of the past. I think the citizens of Serbia know well that we already have six ports that are privatised. Some of them were also widely escorted, such as Luka Belgrade. I'm interested in what I'd like to know, that's -- what's definitely going on with the land, or what's going on with the situation in the ports of new owners? Then I am interested – what will be the state's relationship to the two remaining ports that are not privatized, that is Luka Prahovo and Luka Novi Sad? So these are certain things that, I say, concern the lives of these ports themselves. We're all aware that ports also have very attractive land. I once again mention Luke Belgrade, who was in court for this reason, even during 2013, the Constitutional Court declared itself around Luke Belgrade's land. What I want, at the very end, especially to apostrophe and to point out is the work of inspection oreganes. On the Committee on Infrastructure, my fellow MPs noticed that we have a lot of poor work from the inspection bodies of the Ministry itself, which refers to so-called. Unauthorized cargo spaces. It's something that we all need to work together to prevent so-called. The smuggling that happens on rivers in Serbia. If you look only at Drina, you'll see what happens during the day and during the night, how much cattle are smuggled through the Drina, not to mention what was done before about oil and oil derivatives, so I'd ask the Honorable Minister to make sure that simple inspection supervision is strengthened. On the other hand, what I have to notice is that the arguments written here to us when they are delivered to us as MPs for amending and supplementing the law, you have a lot of year-to-year prescriptions and deadlines here, for example. in the amendments to the Act on Inland Waters and Navigation and Ports, it says in one part of the deadlines – decision on the height and manner of payment of port and port fees, the Agency for Port Management, the deadline for adoption on 1 December 2014, and we adopt the basic law in February 2015. For this reason, I would sincerely ask, first of all, the expert services of the resolution ministries that, in this way, such documents are not prescribed only year after year, because this law was adopted in 2011, the amendments were adopted in 2013, we have changed again in 2015, some deadlines continue to be extended, and the arguments are copied, and even when they are copied, they do not correct the dates, but remain the deadline of 1 December 2014. Once again, along with these remarks that I expect the ministry will also have through amendments and the adoption of amendments of understanding for these deadlines, I underline that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support these amendments in the voting day, with hope that there will be no deadlines ahead, to come in January 2018, that they will come into force much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22116	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22117	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mrs Mihajlović, representatives of the Ministry, today we are discussing three draft laws – draft laws and amendments to the Law on Maritime Navigation, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State belonging and registration of a vessel. When we talk about this first proposed legislative solution, therefore, the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Maritime Navigation seems to be a very good thing and it seems to me that, in fact, the matter that is being edited is being characterized by such a proposed solution, and primarily by certain international conventions, but also by domestic positive legal regulations, I am thinking primarily of the Law on Infringements, which took effect on 1 March 2014, and through which one effective control over the implementation of the provisions of the law that we are discussing today, as firstly proposed, will be facilitated. There is also a alignment with the proposal, i.e. with the applicable Law on travel documents. I must agree that in terms of the problem, I am primarily thinking about the deadline for issuing maritime identification cards, and I agree here with my predecessor, a respected colleague, Jovanovic, and I personally think that this deadline could have been shorter. Also, certain remarks made by my colleague Jovanovic have been made, so I will not repeat what has been said in this place. In fact, although the name of the legal text always points to matter and to an object that is actually regulated by this legal solution, then the layman's public could, of course, conclude that we actually do not need the Law on Maritime Navigation, for the simple reason that Serbia has no sea. But, in a broader sense, of course, something like that is not true, because maritime law is not only a branch of law that is simple and merely engaged and covers only norms that regulate the legal status of the sea, but also regulates a number of relations that occur both at sea and in relation to the sea, as well as all other accompanying activities. This maritime law, as such, is, in a narrow sense, actually a branch of law, something that regulates relations between the states themselves, primarily on the legal status of marine space, or, for example, the conduct of war at sea, of course, I will add -- don't give God, which is part of international public law. Maritime sailing, by its essence, could be said in its essence, is primarily a commercial activity and I think it's absolutely undeniable. However, a number of regulations, primarily a number of provisions in the field of administrative law, which also concern maritime navigation, deserve, seem to me, exceptional attention and need to devote space to them, because without them, the overall functioning of maritime legal matter cannot be understood. Of course, the subject of regulation of this issue is legal norms that regulate sea navigation. In the first row, of course, for the purpose of transporting people and goods, but also far beyond. In fact, it is a number of legal relations and legal institutes, which are primarily property character, and governing law norms, which regulate the individualisation of the seaship, its safety, both from the population of construction and from the population of exploitation, and the overall safety of navigation, so to speak, in the broadest possible sense of that word. Special attention, here, of course, I'm making an introduction like this, and it's worth it really legal, but it's also the bonding part that comes from here. It's like the object of the property of this legal matter in terms of real legal work, where I mean first of all property and co-ownership rights, but also of the pawn rights on board, while the bonding part deals with the regulation of contracts and non-contractual relations that arise in the maritime navigation at all. Only the unification of maritime law, which certainly characterizes universality and particularity, but also autonomy, has developed extremely unequal. What is almost noticeable and can be said to represent a kind of paradox, is that the exact opposite of expectations were originally resolved by some questions from maritime law and property, and only then had it changed to regulation of marine space status. If we also look at the efforts of the international community, and to this day there have been an enormous number of them on the subject of the regulation of this matter, it has certainly resulted primarily in one comprehensive codification work, and above all as a United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982. During the 19th century, and especially after the creation of national states, a comprehensive maritime legislation was adopted in Europe right in the European countries. In that sense, of course, France, which has already been 1807, seems to me, has passed its commercial code, and whose second book is just regulated by maritime law, and of course by sea navigation, what we are discussing today. This is followed by Germany, which also regulates this matter in its 1861 trade code, which was, of course, innovated in 1897. In fact, these two laws have had a crucial, i.e. crucial impact on the regulation of maritime navigation and on all other European countries. In the context of the amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Navigation, which we are discussing today, it seems to me that it was a visible influence, correct me, of course, if I am wrong, and perhaps more than the influence of the Maritime Code of the Republic of Croatia, so it is clear that some of its solutions are completely copied. Of course, I say, correct me if I'm wrong, but that's for me and good, because I think and always point out that it's very good to copy what's good legal solutions. In some parts only one word has been changed or a termology has been replaced. So, let's say, the mention of the Croatian Maritime Code, for example. in Article 1, which is amended by Article 4 and point 42, the recognised organisation is an organisation which fulfils the conditions laid down by a specific regulation and which is authorised by the Ministry of Traffic Affairs to carry out the statutory certification of maritime vessels, which includes the review and issuing of the prescribed documents. In fact, the whole definition of recognised organisations is identical to that already mentioned solution in the Croatian Maritime Code, with the term "seaships" in these amendments and additions, while the Croatian Maritime Code uses the term "maritime facility", which I personally consider to be a more correct solution and comprehensive, if, for example, it comes from some sort of banal thing. For example, if we take into account the definition of a vessel which is a technical water facility. It is certainly in the reasons for the adoption of such a legal text that the Convention on the Labour of Seamen is cited and it is certain that these amendments bring into line the provisions governing the work of persons under the age of 18 and the obligations of the shipowners to conclude the insurance policy, or to lay down any other guarantee, all for the purposes of covering the claim on a variety of grounds, that I would not be particularly instructed to do so now. Although the reasons for the adoption are mentioned in the international convention, in addition to the Maritime Labour Convention, the Convention on the Identification Card of Seamen, which I have mentioned, is a disputed time limit for the issue of the Marine Identification Card, since all international maritime law elections are adopted in the form of international conventions, and we can split them into elections in the field of safety of navigation and elections in the area of maritime private law. In this context, it is necessary to point out and say that the most important international convention in the field of navigation security, the Convention on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea, or known as the SOLAS Convention, is certainly the most important. Of course, the cause of her adoption is not at all as beautiful as I assume some of us know. It was a 1912 disaster of the Titanic ship, so that the first Convention on the Protection of Human Lives at Sea, known as the Titanic Convention, would be adopted by the next 1913. But as a result of the outbreak of World War I, such a convention never came into force and then we have the SOLAS Convention, which for the first time was brought to London as a comprehensive and fully summed international document in 1929, and today it is the force of the 1974 SOLOS Convention, of course, with protocols from 1978 and 1988, as a rule, of course, with numerous amendments and many annexes. In 1977, in our country at the time, since we have changed a lot of them to this present one, the Law on Maritime and Inland Navigation has been passed, and this law has actually been fully codified by this matter that we are discussing today, because it has gone from one simple, I would say quite logical conclusion, that it is necessary to enforce a uniform regulation of maritime law and internal navigation rights, which I think is always a far better approach than to regulate maritime and inland navigation separately, but we, for some reason, have shown that the Maheri are incompatible, such as planning and construction, which I was telling you about when you were here last time, and where codification is needed, we are sorting it with completely separate legal solutions. What's interesting is that this mentioned law from our back country in 1977 was applied on our territory until Yugoslavia fell apart and there was no change and additions, pardon me, no alterations have been made. Only one addition was made in 1985. These changes and additions give possibility to domestic citizens working as seamen on ships of foreign flags to continue fully uninterrupted and uninterrupted their work on them. This is also achieved through the introduction of provisions of the Convention on the Identification Card of Seamen into the proposed legal text. What is a fact, and it is certain that our citizens are faced with a number of problems, which you state in the reasons for the adoption of this law and the explanations, and primarily with the problems of banning temporary departure on land in those ports of the States which require that the seafarers already have the said identification card of the seamen, which has been issued in accordance with that Convention. This, but on the issue of course, regulates the issue of the transfer ban and certainly completely changes Article 84 of this proposed solution. In any case, I personally believe that this is a good legal solution when we talk about maritime navigation, with all the confusion and problems that my colleague Jovanovic has brought out. I hope that the amendment will at least remove something, and in addition, it also says that this is a good legal solution, which I have submitted to the Democratic Party of Serbia only one amendment, which is not me. So, in the day to vote, the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club will vote in favour of the proposal for a law on maritime navigation. When it comes to this, I'm going to take a quick look at the other two draft laws. Therefore, when it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Belongance and Registration of a vessel, which concerns the amendments and additions formally by three members, but in fact it is essentially about the amendments of only two members. The fact is that they are being harmonised, also with domestic positive legal legislation, so that its provisions are now simply conforming to the provisions of the Law on Infringements, as the law on maritime navigation already seems to have already been mentioned. The situation here is more fully defined when sailors working on seaboats, who are enrolled in the International Book of Naval Ships, who do not enter our country's territory that they do not need permission to stay, which is a good solution as well as a work permit, and, of course, everything again in line with the said positive legal regulations. Of course, this bill of law also will support the SPO and DSS parliamentary group in the voting day. Finally, in this joint debate, we also have a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, which also provides for the identification of provisions with the applicable Law on Infringements and is most visible in the case of eradicating members who are governed by the Commission for Infringements in the first degree. Certain proposed provisions shall be amended and complemented and thus shall be accompanied by the provisions of the Transport of Dangerous Load Act. It is also perfectly convenient to supplement the text of the proposed amendments, all in line with the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight on Internal Navigation Roads, which our country has ratified. Thus, despite these requirements prescribed by the technical rules for the registration of ships of inland navigation, ships for the transport of dangerous goods which must now meet the requirements and those laid down rules for the classification of recognised classification companies. It is also good that what is also proposed, in fact, a proposed solution that provides for a reduction in the number of port fees. Now there are only two fees, it is to carry out daily activity and daily activities, until such a provision is one day unnecessary and overcome. I hope it will be soon when the law is passed that regulates the matter of paying compensation for the use of public goods, giving port concessions. I consider the well-proposed solution, i.e., a complete normation of the matter of their giving is actually carried out in accordance with the applicable Law on Public Legal Partnership and concessions. Although this is actually about a large number of amendments and additions, and when we talk about this bill and the proposal for a law on maritime navigation, I think this is the kind of proposal and that these amendments and additions were all- and necessary, primarily in order to maintain the real needs that exist now, because some legislative solutions and numerous legal provisions have simply been overcome, time has already denied them, but that they are actually in line with other applicable laws that are in force in our country. Of course, in the discussion in particular, we will be able to consider all the amendments submitted, and indeed there are a lot of quality amendments that deserve not only attention, but also the possibility of detailed consideration for their adoption and to be implemented in the proposed legislative solutions, in order to make the quality of the regulation of matter governed by the Amendments and Supplements Act, the ports of the internal seas, as well as the proposed Law on Maritime Navigation. As far as this law is concerned, in front of the DHSS, I have handed over one amendment, as I say, that's not relevant to me. So I'm sure this is a good solution from my point of view, given the lack of amendment in this debate. I handed over that amendment primarily, which is a reflection of a technical character. We must primarily manage a nomotechnic that must be at an enviable level regarding any proposed legal solution. After all, as I have already mentioned, I think a number of issues that can be discussed will be discussed when we have a debate in particular, according to the amendments. In any case, in the voting day, the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group will support and vote on all the proposed legislative solutions that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22118	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22119	First of all, I would like to thank you for all your suggestions and opinions, and since previous colleagues, i.e. MEP Jovanovic, mentioned exactly the identification cards, and you, in that sense, are a few clarifications. So, sailors will now use their passport whenever they travel, and the identification card will only be used when they need to go to one of the countries within the port area. I agree with you that the deadline is a long one, but since it should cost us, therefore, that identification card is used for the possibility of coming out within a certain port area, at first estimates between three or four million euros. We haven't been able to finance it, and that's one of the basic reasons why we put that deadline on, although I agree with you that one more time we need to think about whether it's an adequate deadline. Secondly, we talked to the MUP, but when an economic and financial analysis was done, it turned out it cost a lot more to change their software and to insert this part than to be equipped to give ID cards. That was why we didn't do this with the MUP. Another small addition to the provisions, i.e. the laws, that the laws resemble each other. I must admit that most things have been taken over from international conventions or directly from the directive. In that sense, some concepts are similar or the same, so to speak. Of course, in particular, I agree that we will talk, especially about this date in 2018, whether it is adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22120	The word has a National MP, Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22121	We are today considering three laws in the field of navigation, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation, the ports of internal waters, amendments to the Law on Maritime Navigation and the amendment of the Law on State Belongance and the description of the vessel. Common to all these laws is their alignment with other laws adopted in the field of maritime and river traffic. Consistency with the Law on Planning or Construction, the Law on travel documents and other laws. Also, harmonising with accepted international obligations and ensuring a higher level of protection for the seamen and, most importantly, environmental protection. They also arrange waterways, sailing and, of course, water-accessible facilities. What is new about the amendments to the Law on Maritime Navigation? The ship is not allowed to employ persons under the age of 18, if these jobs endanger their health. The shipowner is obliged to conclude insurance for his employees in the event of an injury or death. The shipowner must provide medical examinations for seamen according to ISO standards. A member of the crew may be a person with identity, education and health status. Maritime books cannot serve as a passport, as my colleagues have already said before, and biometric identification cards are being introduced. Of course, among the laws we are talking about today is the most important Law on sailing and ports on internal waters. As Serbia has two large international waterways, the Danube of its 1,508 water km flows through Belgrade with its 588, and Sava is about 593km of water, 207km of which is through Serbia. Of course, numerous tributaries are also partly watery. The existing Law on navigation and ports therefore needs to be brought into line with ratified agreements, brought into line with new laws and a procedure for new investments should be implemented, under which I mean the possibility of concessions or some private and public partnership. Amendments to existing laws can be classified in several categories. Part of the law which defines and regulates the spatial elements of the use of water streams and coasts, the improvement of the law in the field of control of the regularity of the vessel, means technical parts of the law, the definition of jurisdiction over procedures, the precise definition of the concept of port and port facilities and the law reaffirms the importance of the water traffic development strategy and, of course, through an action plan, guarantees this time and implements that strategy. I would like to give my contribution to today's discussion in an area that is the most related to my profession, which is spatial plans, urban plans that define this matter and which deal with this matter, of course, and the construction process, reconstructions on buildings that are paying facilities along the waterways. At the very beginning, I would like to open a dilemma and ask the question – why has the term “port” and “port” been redefined, and I will quote in my article the Law which, in point 22, states: “The port is a watery and water-related space, which has been built and equipped for the reception of domestic ships and ships by the flag, their loading, landing, storage, loading and landing of passengers. “ In point 45, for the term “port, ” says: “The port is a watery and water - connected area built and equipped for the reception of domestic ships... “, this does not stand, but I am saying – exclusively domestic ships, “... their boarding and landing as well as for storage purposes. “ And, of course, it also refers to the boarding and landing of passengers. This further means that ports can be national and international, and ports, according to this definition, remain exclusively domestic, or receive domestic ships. The question is whether this further means that existing ports should get port status, or whether something changes in the definition of these concepts. We know that Belgrade has one port, which, of course, exclusively has that economic significance, has one port, it is the Sava port, at the concrete hall, where it docks daily, international ships. The port has been extremely well equipped in the past few years, even received some international recognitions for the contents and for the way it looks. Whether this port will now be renamed to port, or whether these ships will be moved, internationally, or until the construction of a new international port that receives and those international ships will happen, I did not understand it after reading this law. There is also a port in Apatino, all right, it can be by its importance and definition of the ports. The new now has three docks. Will any of that be onion now? The lower Milanese also has one port. A little more Belgrade statistics. Belgrade has about 40 marinas, winters, berths, anchors, not exactly by definition what one of these objects is and of course their number changes, 35 to 45, as some are shutting down daily, let the new ones open. There are about 150 to 180 restaurants in Belgrade, rafts. There are about 2,000 houses on the water, of which 1,000 have been officially reported. When I say "eye", it's because not everyone is properly reported. The number of vessels ranges between seven and eight thousand. About 4000 have been reported since, of course, due to tax payments, a large number of these vessels have not been reported neatly. This law, I hope, will arrange and fully this matter and, of course, without precise and accurate statistics, we cannot, of course, arrange our own waterways or shoreways. As far as the planning documentation itself is concerned, I would like to say that Belgrade's general plan envisions that the existing port on the Danube, Dorcol, be maintained in a naturally reduced volume. It remains as a commercial port and its background has been redefined and transferred to business – residential content, which is of course with its both ecological and economic justifications logically. The new location for the port is provided by this plan on the left bank of the Danube, beneath the Pančeva Bridge, downstream, of course near the Pančeva zone. I would like to ask, the Belgrade Building Directorate has ordered and a general project has been developed for the area. The general project was completed some four or five years ago. He is in the ministry and has never been audited by the general project. For him, there's even a study of justification. It is in every sense and urbanally defined, and justified. What's also important, most of that land is owned by the city, I think some preconditions have been created to move on in that sense. Also, I'd like to open up another dilemma a little more. In the past few months, the Port Management Agency has initiated the construction of a new port in the Chinese Bridge zone. For that location, there are no urban planning preconditions, so neither the spatial plans nor the plans of the lower order have defined it, and I think that this initiative should also be well reviewed, given the likely problems with the infrastructure, I am referring to the absence of rail traffic. Also, I don't know why you care about making a plan, the detailed regulation plan of the Sava port, whatever it was called in the future, the concrete hall zone and the ports for tourist ships. I think that plan was almost over and it seems to me that it would contribute to the whole of this matter, which we regulate to today's laws. In that zone, what's also good is that an international urban and architectural competition was called and we got two extremely attractive first prized solutions from a local architect, a Japanese architect and started implementing these projects, and I think that's where I'd ask you, Madam Minister, to make your contribution to stepping out a little bit. Next, I think there is a decision by the ministry to build another international port. That decision is based on the old nomenclature and it's called the International Port and I think it's about Zemun. I'd also like to see what's going to happen in accordance with this new law and with that location. Also, one plan of detailed regulation provides for a port in Greece. I think that because of the route of foreign tourist ships, it is imagined that they will agree to it, and it is also necessary to review the status of whether it is a port, a port or a port, as well as foreign ships. As for the matter that treats construction, reconstruction of facilities in water streams and accompanying facilities on the coasts, this law has made another important contribution which has increased the jurisdiction of the port captain and waterway directorate. In the process of obtaining conditions for design and construction, the port captainate issues nautical conditions for the project, and the waterway directive issues conditions. Of course, when drawing up documentation, before obtaining a building permit, and the Port Captainy within their jurisdiction and directorate give consent to the project, which I think will further increase, enter order both in the design of the documentation and in the construction. I think that in any case any additional control improves and establishes, let me say, new values which respect the law, which preserves nature and environment. In the end, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support these laws because, with every agreement with international regulations, Serbia is approaching Europe, Eurointegration is too much, because it introduces order in the use of Serbia's waters, because it promotes environmental awareness, because it creates preconditions for wider economic development, tourism, trade of goods, shipbuilding, hydrobuilding, and especially because these laws aphirmise social and social responsibility towards the seamen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22122	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22123	Thank you. Just a few explanations. Let's get out of here. The terms were defined by the 1973 law, and then in 2004, the UN Conference on Trade and Development adopted international definitions and these international definitions are now in this law. Luke is open to international ships, docks for domestics. The ports are there, in fact, that as terminals much less than ports as an infrastructure project and there are primarily to encourage domestic economy. As far as nautical tourism was concerned, it was interesting at the end of what you mentioned, this law was returned, it was once, in the jurisdiction of local self-government precisely because we think it's much simpler to do it than to do it from the level of the Ministry itself. About spatial plans, technical documentation and all that you mentioned, so there's a lot for and against when we look at both economic and financial. There will be opportunities when we talk about amendments, that is, these laws in particular, so we will expose everything to both the Turtle and everything. So, what's that, what's for, and what's against and how much money it's gonna take, does it need to maybe move even the way to make a port in Krgnaca, to make a new bridge, etc. There's analysis to be done. No decisions have been made definitively. Nothing's been decided, nothing's been determined. These are the topics we're just talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22124	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22125	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, guests from the ministry, respected colleagues, this set of three laws relating to maritime navigation, navigation and ports on our waters, as well as state and vessel registration, represents a continent that changes existing regulations. When we passed these laws, we came from the fact that, although Serbia is not a maritime country, it has its own maritime vessels, but that there are both water and domestic and international waters, through which a significant part of domestic and international transport takes place. I would like to remind you that the Law on navigation and ports on inland waters was adopted in 2010, the Law on maritime navigation in 2011, and the Law on state ownership and registration of vessels in 2013. These were new regulations in our legal system back then and, by passing these laws, the Republic of Serbia for the first time regulated these issues in accordance with international conventions and other international acts in this area. The amendments and additions to all three laws today represent a further alignment of our legislation with international documents, but they also solve a number of problems observed during the application of these laws. The benefits of water traffic should not be specifically spoken of, but should nevertheless be underlined that this type of economic activity is a huge developmental opportunity for Serbia. First, I would refer to the Law on Maritime Navigation, which I said we adopted in 2011, following the ratification of the Convention on the Labour of Seamen, which was adopted in 2006 by the International Labour Organisation. I would point out, and you will understand that this law was passed at a time when our esteemed colleague and comrade Milutin Mrkonjic was a minister, who recognised the need to regulate this area as a road traffic expert and gave full support to the expert team from the Ministry of Transport at the time to prepare pioneer legal solutions. The adoption of this law was then followed by a great controversy, especially when it comes to the question of what a state that does not have access to the sea is going to do with the Law of Maritime Navigation. As the Republic of Serbia has its own vessels on international waters and its crews that make up both our citizens and foreigners, the Law on Maritime Navigation has for the first time regulated this area, and our citizens are provided with legal certainty. Today, we have before us several concrete changes and additions to this law that will, above all, ensure the better working status of our sailors. The obligation of the shipowner to conclude an insurance policy or to provide another financial guarantee to cover financial claims in the event of damage to the work or death of the seafarer shall be established. More specifically, the process of recognising the authorisation of the training of the seamen is regulated, but the work on vessels for persons under 18 is regulated. Given the weight and risks of operations carried out on board during navigation, it is important to introduce a domestic employer's obligation to finance a medical examination of a seafarer prior to taking up duty on board. Also, the obligation to license the doctors themselves to conduct these checks is being introduced. Due to the need to comply with this law with the Law on travel documents, it is prescribed that the maritime book can no longer be used as a travel document, but will serve as the main document proving the seafarer's training, its health status, the property in which he serves on board as a crew member, as well as only the duration of his employment on board. I would like this opportunity to highlight a provision that is extremely important, and you, Minister, have mentioned it, as far as our sailors are concerned. The draft law lays down provisions of the marine identification card as a document that must be given to all seamen in accordance with Convention No 185, which has been ratified by the most significant maritime forces. In many countries, seafarers who do not possess these identification cards are prohibited from temporary departure to land in ports in which ships agree. With this change, we will facilitate the work of our citizens who, as sailors, have so far had problems because of the lack of this document. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Statehood and the registration of vessels provides for only two amendments. The first amendment concerns the abolition of the legal obligation to issue a residence permit to foreign seamen working on ships under the Serbian flag. Also, it will not be necessary to issue a special permit for the work of foreigners, which was an obligation in accordance with the regulations governing the stay and work of foreigners. This amendment is proposed by the legislator with the reason that the seamen working on our ships do not enter the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and they do not need to issue permits or temporary residence permits. The second amendment is due to the harmonisation of this law with the Law on Infringements, and concerns the abolition of the navigation infringements commission which was working within the Ministry of Transport. Namely, the Law on Infringements has been passed on to criminal courts, and there is no need for this issue to be regulated by this law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters continues the process of harmonising domestic legislation and practices with the EU transport policy in the field of water transport, which is an economically more efficient, more environmentally acceptable form of traffic. The Socialist Party of Serbia wants to welcome the ministry's significant effort and efforts to form a very important law as soon as possible that will be the basis for new significant shifts in the area of water traffic and the development of port operations. Some solutions were derived from the application of the law in practice, i.e. the problems created in its application, and development guidelines were given to move towards their resolution. Certainly, Serbia's strategic definitions on the way to European integration have set the framework for a full legislative solution. Speaking of this law, we cannot without also talking about the international aspect of our waterways and ports and their importance for international water traffic. According to the Danube Commission, on our largest international river, Danube, Serbia has 11 ports of international importance. It's Apatino, Bogojevo, Baka Palanka, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Panchevo, Smederjevo and Prahovo. On Savi the largest ports are in Šapac and Sremska Mitrovica, and on Tisa in Senta. All of these ports, except Luke Novi Sad and Prahova, have been privatized for the last 10 or 12 years. Unfortunately, all our ports are quite technologically obsolete, although they have a substantial potential and can, with modernization, give a great economic effect to the state. The Republic of Serbia envisions investments in its planned documents over the next 10 years of around 290m euros, especially in the pan-European blue corridor, Corridor 7, and Danube respectively. I believe that Serbia, as an EU candidate, will be able to provide projects that will be able to apply to these funds, as the EU plans to set out nine water corridors across Europe for the coming years nearly 260 billion euros. It is therefore very important to place internal waterways as part of international waterways in such a legal framework that enables rational, legal and cost-effective use for the country. The state should provide a control mechanism that prevents the abuse of state property, but to ensure the legal certainty of those who bought the ports. In that sense, I would like to welcome the positive trend that the legislator offers in the proposal for this law. The ultimate goal is certainly more developed and economically for us better water traffic, and about the development of port operations on internal waterways. As I was saying in the opening part, this law is relatively nearly passed and, as any pioneering undertaking in a legislative sense, in the first years of application, shows the lack and need for changes to some inefficient solutions. The law proposes a change in the classification of ports, with the aim of keeping the ports which are now open to international traffic open to the possibility of still being open to ships of all flags, but at the same time harmonising domestic legislation with the requirements of the EU regulation on guidelines for the development of trans-European transport networks. The current classification of ports opened for international traffic and ports opened for domestic traffic is replaced by the classification of ports of international importance, national ports of regional importance and national ports of importance for local self-government. It should be pointed out here that all three categories of ports will be open to international traffic with certain conditions. The bill prescribes stricter infrastructure and other requirements that the ports will have to meet to be classified as ports of international importance. One of the important newspapers of this law is the provision of so-called the financial transparency of ports. This solution provides for the obligation of all entities in the port sector to charge any service to prove to end-users that the intended amounts are indeed justified. The legislator has provided for a procedure that has not been implemented today in our legal system and we hope that other ministries will begin to introduce this practice. The bill reduced the number of port fees, which is certainly a favourable solution to the economy, with it important to stress that this bill is entirely behind the Budgetary System Act. Considering that it contains provisions that prescribe that part of the law governing port fees will cease to apply after the adoption of the law governing the payment of public goods charges. The Proposer has also implemented certain amendments to the laws relating to the technical rules contained. The amendments and additions shall, inter alia, regulate the way in which the banning mark is highlighted, the mandatory carrying of copies of ship's documents and books on thrusters and jars, as well as the validity of a provisional testimony on the ability of a floating object to be moved for the purpose of special transport. In this regard, we want to support the ministry's efforts to identify the ship's navigation capabilities with regard to the adoption of a sublegal act on technical rules for the status certification of ships of inland navigation. The adoption of this Regulation is a key contribution to bringing domestic legislation into line with some of the most important EU rules, namely one of the most complex EU directives in general. Since nothing has changed in this area since 1988, this rule will greatly affect the safety of navigation. In the end, I would mention a change of a member, who doesn't leave the impression of a fundamental change at first reading. Namely, in Article 171. The Port Office shall be replaced by the Ministry in respect of the conduct of procedures for the examination of vessel accidents with fatal outcome or serious physical injuries. Regardless of the reason for the changes in this particular case, whether it is a ministry reorganisation or some other reason, I am of the opinion that this solution can contribute to improving the safety of navigation. I hope that in the next period and for other modes of traffic, whether it is rail, air traffic, and especially road traffic, it will be possible to predict similar practices in relation to the investigation of accidents. Socialists welcome efforts to implement and improve all legal solutions aimed at security and efficiency. That's why we're like a parliamentary group and we've submitted a few amendments, which we're going to discuss in detail. In voting day on behalf of the SPS as an authorised representative, I am telling you that we will support all three draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22126	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22127	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm glad you got the chance to hold a session of the National Assembly. We hope something changes in the work. I welcome Minister Mihajlović, who today is not something God knows how moody she is, but I hope we will find out the reason through this debate, which could be the problem that plagues your Ministry. You, the Honorable Minister, have put three laws before us: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland port navigation, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Belonging and entering a vessel. As always, you have delivered these laws by emergency procedure. Any Serbian citizen could ask himself – what is the hurry with these laws? Regardless of Serbia has no sea, it is obliged to settle some issues concerning its citizens sailing on ships of other countries and ships owned by Serbia and that Serbia's state arranges sailing on domestic waterways. But you'll admit it's not for an emergency procedure. I could accept that an emergency procedure could be something that today, here, I got from citizens a question, information, whatever you want, families that are with three or four children, lost power because they couldn't pay for communal obligations... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22128	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, return to the agenda. The Institute of Parliamentary Affairs was about a few hours ago. That's when you could have asked that question. Now I ask you to return to the subject of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22129	I've only just praised you, Mr. Arsic, and you've broken down immediately. It's about the next one. Mr Arsic, I explain the reason why the SDS parliamentary group felt that these laws were not meant to enter the procedure by emergency procedure. I do not think that the Law on Maritime Navigation and these other laws are of such a nature that it requires urgency, especially now that I will state the reasons which explicitly state that it is only a habit of government, a bad habit, and a wish, I think, that the intention to leave MPs without sufficient opportunity to analyse these laws adequately. Here's why. For example, some provisions of the Law on Maritime Navigation, provisions of Article 15, come into force only when Serbia joins the EU. Do you think that'll happen within 15 days? It took you 15 days to wait for a regular procedure. They told us, not in five years. Some provisions of Article 20 of this Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2018. As I asked the ministers before you here, I ask you – why haste, why haste, what does the people say, to put laws in the process by emergency procedure if you were able to allow normal preparation of MPs for these laws? They don't matter. We don't say they're irrelevant. We tried, reading every letter, every point and point, to prepare amendments to these laws. We have prepared 30 amendments, but we would certainly be better prepared to discuss both amendments and laws in principle that we have had as much decent time as possible. I ask you one more time - what's that for? True, the practice has been abolished, which coincides with the selection of the new director of the "Official Messenger" from your ranks, that the law enters into force on the eighth day of publication in the "Official Messenger". But it certainly matters what these laws say. It is very important to see if these laws only implemented the Seafarer Labour Convention, which was adopted by the International Labour Organisation, which we ratified on 18 October 2011. The next question is, why didn't you implement this convention in our legal system? [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22130	Mr. Veselinovic, I must interrupt you in one piece. I apologize, purely for the quality of your discussion. The Law supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation is set out in Assembly procedure 31. 12. 2014 The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters was sent to the Assembly procedure on 8 December 2014 and an emergency procedure was removed from it, the National Assembly took down an emergency procedure. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Statehood and the registration of a vessel is subject to regular procedure. So all the laws are at least over a month in the process. They were filed and the Assembly decided not to be in an emergency procedure. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22131	So the laws say that they're under emergency procedure, and we've been convened for the session two or three days before the session. So how could we know that this session would be held, and why would we view the laws, which by emergency procedure, in a way other than the urgent procedure? We haven't received notice that they've been stripped of the mark that they're under emergency procedure. But this has nothing to do with it. So, Mr. Arsic, Madam Minister, the Convention on the Labour of Seamen, brought by the International Labour Organisation, was adopted, or ratified in 2011. We are the Law, which we are implementing in 2013. Why, Minister, have you not introduced the provisions of the Convention that has already been ratified into these novels, but you do, I don't know, a year, two days later? So you had the opportunity to install those provisions of the Convention into this law by then. It just shows how much left doesn't know what he's doing on the right, and why do we have amendments and additions to the laws that were almost in the procedure? In addition, in these laws, these are general remarks, saying in one place there is no need to provide funding, while elsewhere it is said that the application of this Law will, in particular, cause the costs of the National Bank of Serbia, the Institute for the Making of Coins and Coins. As far as I know, the National Bank of Serbia is a state institution, whether it will have the cost of the ministry or the NBS, that is, it does not matter, and that it will cost health institutions to introduce an ISO quality management system. So, what's the truth? Will this law specifically create a commitment or will it not create a commitment? What is also important to know, my previous speaker said she knows something about whether Luka Belgrade will be in one place or another. That's very important for the application of this law. As MPs, here I am, in particular, not sure whether the Luke Belgrade issue is resolved and whether and to what extent do these laws apply to Luka Belgrade? What implications will Luke Belgrade have, and what implications does Luke Belgrade have for this law? So, in which category is Luke's property, in which category is Luke's land, construction, space where Luke's supposed to be or something else? In what way can this law, namely these laws, primarily the law relating to ports, reflect on the port of Belgrade, and can we also tell Luke Novi Sad, but above all on Luke Belgrade, and has this law in some ways, in certain parts, when it is not harmonized with international conventions, come from the fact that we have a very, very specific situation with Luke Belgrade, the largest port in Serbia, where we have a man headed, the owner who was supposed to be the director of the Railways? So it has to do with power. So, it could happen, we can assume, we from the opposition, probably someone in power is wondering, did Mr. Beko in any way affect the writing of this law? Of course, Madam Minister, it is also very important for these laws whether we will have new waterways. I ask you, Minister, in front of the MPs, in front of the citizens of Serbia – are you personally and did the Serbian Government give up building another waterway to which this law would apply, and that is Kanal Dunav-Morava-Vardar to the Aegean Sea, for which the Serbian Government paid for the construction of the elaborates? True, Mr. Bačević never provided the Commissioner for Public Information and Data Protection on Personality Information related to the Elaborate. Are there any new ports in Serbia planned in this lab and will this law apply to them? Does the fact that Mr. Bacevic is now an ambassador to China mean that the Serbian government, as I understand it, should have been financed by the Chinese state's resources, so are you staying with the project to build the Danube-Morava-Vardar Canal to the Aegean Sea? Is this the project of these governments? If it is, then we need to know and this law will apply to that waterway. If not, please say it isn't and say it's one of the election promises the SNS didn't make. And maybe that ruled that you were sitting here today? So please give a clear answer. The silence will mean that you stayed at Mr. Bačević's last statement that he would build a channel to the Aegean Sea... (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Theme. ) Please, Mr. Arsic, can you send out your positions...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22132	Mr. Veselinović, I am asking fellow Members of Parliament not to receive, and I ask you to return to the agenda topic. We've been listening to you for over 11 minutes, and I'd like you to devote at least one minute to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22133	Mr Arsic, it is a law concerning ports on waterways and it is very important what will happen and which entities will need to apply these laws and which facilities will be subject to these laws, because there will be new ports if there are new channels. I'm just asking about the contents and the objects, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22134	Mr. Veselinović, you're asking questions you know the answer to. So the law applies to all existing objects and will apply to new ones that are being built. We're not gonna write a new law, are we?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22135	Mr Arsic, please let me hear the answer from the minister whether this waterway will be built and when will the construction of the canal to the Aegean Sea that you promised in the 2012 campaign begin? Madam Minister, if you do not have an answer to this question, and as regards the law and the waterways, Mr Arsic, because the Danube is not currently in full capacity, and you know why it is so – because you did not finish the Željev Bridge and because they can only sail the Danube ships of certain gauze, certain heights and you promised me, Madam Minister, seven or eight months ago that we would be together at the beginning of building that bridge. This morning I walked past that bridge – there's nothing going on, there's a part of the bridge that was brought in. I return to the law itself, in the full sense that I was instructed by Mr. Arsic, but I believe I was quite in the subject, Mr. Arsic. When it comes to the Agency for the Management of Ports from the Action of this Agency, it seems to us that it is no longer an agency as it is recognised by us in the legal system, which is independent already it is more an authority of the administration. Why? Because it performs some of the tasks that are higher in the jurisdiction of the state and of the administrative bodies, so professional, development affairs, conclude concession contracts, decide on port concessions, carry out tasks that are pararexensive to the affairs of the state administration. That is why we find it difficult to apply to this Agency rules that apply to agencies that are independent, which are not state bodies. I have a question, which intrigued me more, since I couldn't get to the way, or mathematics, how did you get to the amount of 5 million 186,000 euros, when it comes to the jobs being published on the Agency's website? I don't quite get it. Mostly there's some round figures. I don't know what methodology you used. On the other hand, we would do well to know whether this Law on navigation and ports on internal waters is one of the reasons why it is made, in order to practically correct the mistake made by the decision on the height of port taxis. The state made a decision on the level of port taxis which could not be applied even though it entered into force in 1.7.2014, and those fees were not applied because the ports claimed and proved to be absolutely right, the state cannot charge taxes because they are local revenues. Do you, by means of the provisions of this law, correct a mistake that is, by all accounts, one of the many errors of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? On the other hand, there's a serious problem, and I don't think he's properly sanctioned here either, and it's about sanctioning a shipman who commits a crime, even criminal acts on waterways, and there's no telling who's in charge of those acts. They may not agree to anything, so they may not agree to commit a waterway violation anywhere. So far, there have been problems in the jurisdiction of such violations. I have no idea that this problem where I'm in the previous analyses of these laws, I'd say the conflicts of certain laws, I'd see that this issue is settled here, and it's not an irrelevant question. Finally, Madam Minister, since Serbia is more on land than on the sea and on the waters, please tell me, is the corridor towards Montenegro in danger and did the Chinese partner give up the job and will it be another one of your promised and not your wishes fulfilled?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22136	The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22137	This way, even though it's not a matter of answering that you're not worried about the concession. Don't worry about Corridor 11, it'll be built. It's not going to be built through credits as you build roads, it's going to be built with a modern way of funding, and that's a concession. Don't worry. It will be and you will be informed as you always have been, as you get an answer to every one of your parliamentary questions. A few things you asked as a question and I'll try to answer you. If that's not enough, I'll answer it one more time, if you need me in writing. So, let's go first with the Agency, the Agency is a regulatory body and she kept that role. It was founded in 2010. When you talk about concessions, we haven't changed anything compared to the Law on private-public partnership. So, the Agency is conducting the procedure, but it's not the Agency that does anything contrary to the Law of Private-public Partnership. When you ask for that amount of 5.18m euros, etc. It's a prescribed directive. So we didn't make anything up. Before I go any further, I have to tell you, whoever prepared you, whether you or one of your colleagues, didn't prepare you well, because there are a lot of gaps and holes in what you just said. I'll try to explain. I don't know if your colleagues know, I don't know if you do, but laws aren't made for individuals. Maybe in some previous period you've made laws for individuals, we've had a chance to see it, that's why we're correcting it. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: As you are for Yorvanka Tabaković. I'm sorry, if I may say so. I didn't interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22138	Mr. Veselinović, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22139	So don't make a law for individuals, don't make a law for one port, don't make a law for such things. The law is made for all ports, the law is made for all citizens of Serbia, for all those who will invest or will not invest. You can't figure that out for all the eight months you've been in this House, I'm talking to this government right now. It's a first and a very important thing, especially when you ask about ports. Another important thing, the amendments you've given with due attention, and if we can do with those amendments, and we think they're in accordance with the law, we'll do everything we can to adopt. But everything I've heard from you, in addition to this agency thing where I answered specifically, there's absolutely no fundamental objection to any amendments or additions to any of these laws. Tell me, what are the main problems? You mentioned the Convention, you have no information for the Convention. Yes, the Convention was ratified in 2011, but there were amendments in 2013. We are adopting through these amendments and additions to the laws, even these amendments. Let me tell you right now, the International Labour Organization has praised the work of this ministry. That's exactly what I said at first because she applied the amendments to that convention. Therefore, when you want to say something, you should fully inform yourself about it. Believe me, you're wrong. I will return to the beginning, you said the urgency of the procedure, the chairman explained it, but once again, the practice of this ministry is either public debate or that there is enough time for all MPs to look at the law. You've taken down the emergency sign yourself and there's been plenty of time to look at the amendments and the additions of the law, not to mention that one amendment and the addition of the law has changed in two members. Excuse me, if you can't look at those two members in two months, I don't know what to say. In any case, I believe that these amendments and amendments to the law will help us take a step forward when we talk about water traffic in Serbia. We are prepared to hear objections, fundamental remarks and make these remarks through amendments, if they are in every sense adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22140	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22141	In one sentence alone, I will agree with my colleague Veselinović from the entire exhibition, which is a sentence that the left does not know what he is doing on the right. This applies this time to Mr Veselinovic and his parliamentary group. Why? Because he spent ten minutes explaining why an emergency procedure, I thank you Mr. Arsic for this short course that you held for Mr. Veseinovic where he could see that none of these three laws were in an emergency procedure. But what also confirms that the left does not know what the right is doing is presenting that the SDS has handed over 30 amendments. Either Mr. Vesenovic left doesn't know what's right or he deliberately tried to fool the National Assembly. She didn't turn in 30 amendments, she turned in 14 amendments. So there's another lie. On the other hand, what I would like to ask, since there is something about "Luke Belgrade", a question of the closeness of the owner of "Luke Belgrade", I'm sorry, and who sold "Luca Belgrade"? During which government has "Luka Belgrade" changed its ownership structure? During this government, during the government of Alexander Vukic and the SNS? In half a year, four times more taxes were charged than you charged in four years. Well, then who's more successful? The one who changed, the one who was scrambling before tax or the one who taxes and what belongs to the state four times more in half a year than you did for all four years of your government, Mr. Veseinovic? Come on, pick it up, come on, do that math, because I see you as a law expert who doesn't know that one law applies equally to everyone, as Mrs. Mihajlovic, the minister said, but presented himself here as a mood expert. You know, we're more in the mood. We're more in the mood than we are in time...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22142	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22143	... And what public finances you have set for us. We are more in the mood because we care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we care about the recovery of public finances, because our country is making steps forward in order on the European path. All that you've worked against and what you've worked against.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22144	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Right on line, Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22145	In essence, when it comes to Mr Babic, I have long since given up replicating, because his replicas have never referred to the content of what is being discussed, but has always talked about past times, and we are in the presentation, and the present is such that you, Mrs Mihajlovic, are passing very laws that do not act "erga omnes", which is a general rule in norming. The first law that your previous government passed was a law that could have been called the Jargovanka Tabakovic Act. The last law you passed a dozen, fifteen days ago is the law on a war crimes prosecutor who was practically brought in for one person and I agree that this is not in line with the general legal principles, nor with the right that exists in most EU countries, nor in Anglo-Saxon law. So the laws are supposed to apply to everyone, but you don't make such laws very often, so I thought today that maybe this law was passed because of "Luke Belgrade". You didn't give me an answer. On the other hand, when it comes to concrete objections to this law, Mrs. Mihajlovic, you know that concrete remarks are spoken about the day the amendment is discussed. We've submitted more amendments. We have also made additional corrections to repair these amendments. We, on the other hand...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22146	Time, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22147	... very closely looked at these laws. I'm done. It does not seem that someone has prepared us badly because all the objections are in place and they will see you when we discuss them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22148	Thank you. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22149	Although Mr. Vesenovic is trying not to talk about the past, he has again reached the past and in the previous exhibition and now this exhibition and about the Žeželjev Bridge, but also about the law that we passed back then. I can only ask when we're around that Iron Bridge again, and why don't you finish it? Why did you stop him, why did you stop the construction of the Iron Bridge? Now you ask this government -- why didn't you do it overnight, why didn't you do it right away? Why did you stop? Why didn't you finish that Jell-O bridge? On the other hand, in no single text, no single letter of the law mentions the war crimes prosecutor, Mr. Vukcevic. But I will remind you, however much you ignored the 2008 judicial reform, that pride and the discipline of former regime of Boris Tadic, Janko Veselinovic, what about it? Did someone give support or did someone say that this judicial reform was good because it was purely personal? Prosecutors and judges who are not yours are replaced, party judges and prosecutors are brought in. What do we do with that? What about those laws that the National Assembly then adopted? Let me remind you, the laws are not passed I don't know who, the laws are passed by the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. At least it's according to the Constitution. Is it possible that a doctor of legal science does not know the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of his country? In no single letter of the law, passed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on a proposal from the SNS government and Alexander Vukic, there is no mention of it and is not done in part or in person by anyone. The laws are general acts that apply equally to everyone. But if someone should keep quiet about judicial reform, which is a continuous process, it should be done by Mr. Janko Veseinovic's parliamentary group because no one...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22150	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22151	... . Neither in the domestic nor in the international public had a single word of praise for the process of making political, party prosecution and party justice, as it was done from 2008 to 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22152	Right on line, Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22153	I'll watch with this replica to finish the replicas, if that's possible. So, never in Serbia's history did the judiciary stand for four months as during the Alexander Vukic government. There was never more trouble in the rule of law than during the government of Alexander Vukic. Mr Babic well knows that Željev Bridge, the reconstruction of the Žeželjev Bridge, began during the government when President Boris Tadic headed the country. Mr Babic well knows that the construction of the Žeželjev Bridge was suspended during the government of Aleksandr Vukic and Mr Nikolic. Mr. Babic probably knows that the present is very, very, very bad for his party and for his government and that's why he won't talk about it. Because Serbia is seventh in the world's poverty index behind Venezuela, Argentina, Syria, Ukraine, Sau Tome and Principe. Thus, countries where war was either waged or where there were some non-national or non-democratic regimes. Mr Babic knows that out of one or two salaries in Serbia that are 20 or 30 thousand cannot survive one month and knows that it is true when someone says that Serbian citizens receive 49,000, because it is known that 60% of Serbian citizens receive a salary of between 20,000 and 30,000, and a million and 50,000 pensioners receive a salary of less than 25 thousand and thus cannot buy a consumer basket of 66,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22154	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. I'm glad you said there's a democratic regime in Serbia. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22155	Everything you said isn't true. Everything you've said isn't true and you're acting like one. What you're saying and when you're talking about these laws and what you're saying right now, especially when you're talking about the Jell-O Bridge, it's absolutely not true. After all, the citizens of Serbia who are watching this, that's why I'm reporting, not for you and not for you to explain. So what you said isn't true. The Jell-O Bridge stands for you. It's because of you. Whether you've shared something and had two parties, etc. I'm sorry, the Democratic Party is the Iron Bridge. He started with Tadic, that's right. The way you've arranged jobs, the way you've done it was a disgraceful way and that's why the Iron Bridge was disgraced years ago when your president of the SDS or whatever your party's called, I apologize if I made a mistake in his name. So, because of you today, we're having trouble realising the Iron Bridge. As I told you about Corridor 11 to be completed, the Iron Bridge will be completed. But it will not be due to Tadic and your men, but it will be the merit of Alexander Vukic and this government. Yes, sir. He did not stop Aleksandar Vukic, but stopped Tadic. So, Alexander Vukic didn't create the problems you're talking about, because we solve the problems. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22156	Thank you. Right on the replica of Zoran Babic, and we end up with a circle of replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22157	Speaking of promises, was it the same Boris Tadic, who was president of the state for eight years, who in one pre-election campaign, I remember, remember you, too, surely, Mrs. Mihajlovic, went to the Ibar highway on Corridor 11, so he said so conjoinedly – here. Is there a "ha ha ha ha ha ha ha"? The next day, only from "hei-bay" remained hi, just goodbye, without the road. Is this the same Mr. Tadic, whom Mr. Vesenovic, as he now supports, who promised 200,000 new jobs in 2008? You know why citizens are poor? Not because they lost those 200,000 promised jobs, but because another 400,000 people were unhappy, looting, criminal privatisations left out of it without a job. Is it the same one Boris Tadic who examined the quality of the asphalt on the bypass around Belgrade, and I remember very well, by hand? Be careful, it was so good for the president of the country to bend down to question the quality of the asphalt by hand. He was hand-mixing asphalt, and what was underneath, how much was the thickness of that asphalt, what was the basis, how many problems do we have, because of the poorly arranged jobs, because of the poorly done bases? What is now, during the government of Aleksandar Vukic, during this way, as Mrs Mihajlovic does, how many highways have been done, how many Corridor 10 has been done, how many have been done? We are at the very top of Europe, as far as making highways, in length and in quality. Poverty. Where did you bring us, Mr. Veselinovic? What are you boasting about, Mr. Veselinovic? With how many people out of work with robbery privatisations, poverty?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22158	Please, Mr. Granny, no personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22159	If it was so good until 2012, why did you lose the election?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22160	Time, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22161	And you aim for someone and you show someone, whether they should sit here in the National Assembly or not, with lists you can't even hand over, because people in the bar won't even vote for you, let alone vote for you. Put a little finger on your forehead and start acting like a responsible man.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22162	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Veselinović, on what grounds? (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: The party president and myself have also been mentioned. Mr. Veselinović, first of all, I have to tell you that you have provoked a series of replicas with your own exposure. That's what the minister also said, came from counterpart Babic, and you had the right to answer them, they told you, and I think it's time to get it over with and get on with the work. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: their five, but my two. Give me another one. ) Mr Babić had three replicas on your exhibition, you answered him twice, count that the first replica he said was the agreement on your presentation. The same happens with Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. So you were completely equal. I am absolutely sure that you, as a skilled and experienced MP, will already find a way to contact and continue the discussion. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: I do not want to violate the Rules of Procedure. ) Believe me, I'm not breaking it in this case either, you only got answers to the questions you asked, and you and Mr. Babic just exchanged each other's charges. So if you want, we can keep going all day, but there's no point in being in this session. Let's leave you and Mr. Babic to solve this problem. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Let us be equal. Let's move on. I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22163	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Madam Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, the respected representatives of the ministry, Mrs Sojic, Mr Kovacevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately, there are obviously some MPs of some former regime parties who are being led by that regime – I have not read the law, but the law is so and so. But it's something he says about them, I wouldn't waste any time on it. Three important laws are before us, therefore, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inland Navigation and Ports, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation and the Law on State Belonging and Registration of vessels. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters continues the process of harmonising domestic legislation and practices with EU transport policy in the field of water transport. Transposing EU rules in domestic legislation and their application in this area of traffic has proved to be an extremely difficult process in our country. I am thinking primarily of the port services sector of the Republic of Serbia, where a completely inappropriate process of privatising port enterprises was implemented between 2001 and 2006, where ports were treated as public goods as well as any other privatisation companies, making one of the most negative precedents in the overall parallel law. The problems created by such a privatization began partially to be resolved in 2010, by adopting the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. However, many issues remained unresolved in the law, causing a stalemate in the further development of the port sector of the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, this bill proposes to change the classification of ports with the aim of keeping international traffic open today, so that they remain open to ships of all world flags, but also to harmonize domestic legislation with the requirements of EU Regulation 1315/2013, on guidelines for the development of trans-European transport networks. Consequently, it is proposed to leave the current classification of ports open to international traffic and ports open to domestic traffic and is replaced by a classification of international importance, national ports of regional importance and national ports of local importance, i.e. of importance for local self-government, with all three categories of ports being open to international traffic. Requirements for Regulation 1315/2013. on a minimum quantity of 500 000 tonnes of freight, as well as stricter infrastructure and other requirements, they will have to meet ports that will be classified just as ports of international importance. Furthermore, this draft law has taken the first step towards bringing national legislation into line with the provisions of EU Directive 2014/23 on the award of concession contracts in the part relating to the award of port concessions. In this connection, a split into two types of port concessions was made – port concessions for services, when the concession is given for the provision of port services, and port concessions for public works, when the concession is given for the construction of port buildings and facilities. In accordance with the provisions of Directive 2014/23, the draft law provides for the estimated value of services, i.e. public works, which obliges the port management agency to launch a concession port procedure, which is mentioned at 5.186,000 euros. I am taking this opportunity to point out that the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, which has prepared this bill, has shown that he can listen and understand the demands that come from the economy. With this in mind, it is important to point out that this bill reduces the number of port fees to only two charges charged in daily business, instead of four so far. In addition to these two charges, port operators, which are yet to enter the port services market of the Republic of Serbia, will pay compensation for the operational use of the port as good in general use and as a special type of port fee, will pay only ships using the port's operating coast for some other purpose, unless this is the case with a freighter. Also, the proposal for a law specified the procedure for determining the port areas of ports and ports. In this connection, the port area declaration institute and the possibility of expanding port areas to most ports, which has been recognised by the Water Traffic Development Strategy from 2015 to 2025, recently adopted by the government on 31 December 2014, open the possibility of new port operators entering the domestic market. It is interesting to point out here that the port sector of the Republic of Serbia is also extremely interesting for all world port operators. With this in mind, we have been following closely the information about the potentially large investment of Chinese consortiums of port operators, financial institutions and consultants in building a new port in Belgrade, where the position at Pupin Bridge was mentioned in the media as a new location. We could also see in the media that there is an interest of large port operators from EU Member States, as well as the United Arab Emirates for entering the domestic port services market. In order to specify certain provisions of the bill, the SNS parliamentary group has submitted several amendments to the bill and we believe that they will be adopted by the proposing representatives because they aim to improve these legislative proposals. In view of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, the main reason for the adoption of this bill is to continue the harmonisation of domestic legislation with the Maritime Labour Convention, in order to address the problem faced by domestic citizens working as seamen. In recent years, our citizens have been facing the problem that when they land the seaships they work on they cannot temporarily leave the ship and leave the mainland as well as the other seamen, because they do not have an identification map of the seamen in accordance with that Convention. With this bill, this deficit will finally be removed, and citizens of the Republic of Serbia will enjoy the same rights as sailors from other countries. Finally, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Belongance and the registration of vessels was brought into line with the Law on Infringements, and one specific situation was arranged in relation to the work of the seafarers on the domestic maritime ship. Namely, as these ships never enter Serbia's territory, it is prescribed that these sailors do not need permission to stay, in accordance with the Foreign Law, as well as work permits, in accordance with the Foreign Employment Act. I would like to stay a little longer on a document called the Strategy for the Development of Water Traffic of the Republic of Serbia from 2015 to 2025, which has recently, as we have said, been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The water traffic development strategy is a large and comprehensive document, which represents a chance Serbia can and must take advantage of to strengthen all its economic and infrastructure capacities in the area of water transport and, among other things, with the help of EU financial resources. The next step, along with the Water Transport Development Strategy, is the adoption of a follow-up action plan, which is tasked with identifying concrete measures to further improve these objectives. For all these reasons, the SNS parliamentary group strongly supports these proposed solutions and will vote for these legislative proposals in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22164	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the laws of the agenda as soon as possible. Also, honourable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break. We'll be back to work at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22165	We continue to work on the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zvonimir Stevic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Blagoja Bradić. Here you go, Mr. Stevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22166	Dear Vice-President, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the reasons for amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters were created because of the need to primarily address all shortcomings faced during the application of the law in practice, which are inextricably ambiguous and in some cases lacked adequate provisions so that the law could be fully applied. In addition, it was necessary to bring the bill in line with the Law on Infringements, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Freight, the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions, as well as the Law on Public Procurement. The last but not least significant elements are our international obligations to be seen through a ratified European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Freight on Internal Waterways, the European Agreement on the Main Internal Waterways, of international importance, as the EU Regulation 1315, which was adopted in 2013 on the Trans-European Transport Network. How significant is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, I would like to show through the following facts. Two European traffic corridors, Land Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, pass through Serbia, linking ten European countries to the Danube river's waterway. From the border with Hungary to Belgrade, Danube flows practically parallel to the European highway and railway route, making the area extremely valuable and significant from a business and any other point of view. This also confirms the fact that they have been in the period since 2001. - In 2009 foreign investors invested more than two-thirds of all foreign investments in Serbia in the Danube area and its border areas. Serbia has favourable economic and geographical characteristics for freight, passenger, tourist and water traffic. The potential of inland waterways, rivers and canals with a total length of 1677km is significant, and at a density of 21.7km per 1000km square km are above the EU where 27km per 1000km is square square km. However, the potentials of internal waterways are untapped. Serbia's waterways are 588km, Sava 207km, Tisa 164km, Begey 77km, Tamis 41km and the Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem 600km. The state of internal and waterways and accompanying infrastructure is unsatisfactory and significant investment is needed in its rehabilitation. The Danube River represents a significant pan-European Corridor 7 and a strategic link with Europe and the EU that can and should foster the development of trade, tourism and services in Serbia. Of the total length of the Danube, 2580km, 22.8% is on Serbia's territory. The objectives of the development of this corridor are defined by the Memorandum of Understanding and Development of pan-European Corridor 7, which is the signatories of Germany, Slovakia, Austria, Hungary, Croatia, Yugoslavia, Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine and the European Commission. The Sava River is watered throughout Serbia over 207km. The Framework Agreement on the Sava River Baseline was signed in 2004. Between Serbia and Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Slovenia, and it began to apply in 2005. That's how Sava got the status of the international water river. The stake from Belgrade to Sisak is included in the European network of internal waterways of international importance and currently has a third class of airworthiness. For the river of this importance is the minimum fourth class. Establishing a smooth safe navigation on Sava would boost regional co-operation and development, as well as connecting across the Danube with a network of European waterways. Now the river is located in the so-called so-called river. The natural regime. However, significant investments are needed to maintain and improve signalling. The Tisa River flows through Serbia 164km long and flows into the Danube near Slankamen. The Tisa navigation agreement, concluded with Hungary in 1955, allowed free navigation on equal terms, and Tisa was declared an interstate river. The Danube-Tisa-Dunav hydrosystem is a multi-purpose water system, the main function of which is irrigation and disposal, but there are conditions for sailing. It consists of 12 water channels of Backa and Banat of a total length of 600km, which are classified in four categories of waterways. This system is one of the largest canal navigation networks in Europe that includes also the Begei and Tamis canals along the water channels. On the Danube-Tisa-Dunav canals, 16 ship's translators have been built, 12 of which can accommodate 1000-tonne vessels and four to 500 tonnes of load capacity. Some of the reasons for the relatively weak use of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav canal are insufficient channel width, lack of labelling of navigational signs, underwater and coastal vegetation etc. Domestic vessels are mainly transporting goods in one trash and at small distances, paying channel charges, while crossing foreign ships requires permission from the Ministry of Transport. Each of these listed rivers has its own ports. On the Danube River, there are eight ports of international importance: Apatin, Bogojevo, Baka Palanka, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Panchevo, Smederevo and Prahovo. The largest ports on the Sava are Šabac and Sremska Mitrovica. On Tisa River, it's Senta. By capacity and volume of transport, the most important ports are Belgrade, Pančevo, Smederevo and Prahovo, and only Belgrade and Pančevo have container terminals. The common feature of all our ports is the small utilisation of existing capacities, which is about 30% on average. For such a small use there are several reasons, and the basics are: reduced industrial production in Serbia, low technological equipment of ports, construction of technological systems for combined and intermodal transport and the like. In order to improve transport and energy efficiency, reduction of costs in the recycling and improvement of ecology should work on building logistics centres that would unite all modes of transport. Furthermore, our ports are unsettled and unequipped for tourist ships, and the marinas for yachting, tourism are not even built and I think it would be necessary in the coming period to work on the development of this branch of our water industry. In order to develop and improve our water economy, it is necessary to help businesses involved in this activity. Companies in Serbia dealing with water transport have 396 used funds, making up a capacity of 403,853 tonnes. More than 77% are vessels for the transport of scattered cargo, and the rest are vessels for the transport of liquid cargo. All the river fleet is quite old, technologically lagging behind with this fleet, Serbia is participating in the total Danube fleet with 10%. Travel and water traffic in Serbia has mainly a transit-tourism character, which is organised by tourist agencies, mainly from Germany and Austria in the form of a cruise to the Black Sea. This type of traffic has a constant trend in growth and is an important role in the development of trade and tourism. Although we have all these advantages, both natural and geographical, I think it is necessary and further advanced and therefore we encourage the Ministry of Transport to do everything possible to make full use of this potential in the full development of our country. Dear Members of the People, as far as the amendments and additions of the Law are concerned, I would focus on key changes and additions in this address. In particular, changes and additions shall be prescribed. Under one, the consents issued by the port and ministry management agencies when drawing up technical documentation for the construction of ports and ports. Two, when the port captain gives permission to board a foreign ship in a shipyard. Under three, ships withdrawn from use must also be removed from shore by order of port captains. Under four, the Administration for the Determination of the Capability of Sailing Ships shall grant approval to domestic ship equipment manufacturers on the basis of a sublegal act adopted by the Minister. Under five, as if the ship's navigational capacity management were to keep records of the documents issued that would be available on the website. What would particularly point out is Article 66, which implemented the harmonisation of the provisions of the law with the Law on Confirmation of the European Agreement on the Main Internal Waterways of International importance and the EU Regulation 1315, which was adopted in 2013. First of all, in terms of change, the port classifications opened for international traffic and ports opened for domestic traffic which are replaced by the classification of ports of national importance and ports of regional importance, i.e. the importance of local self-government, where both of these types of ports will be open to international traffic. The requirements of the European Agreement on the main internal waterways of international importance and Regulation 1315/2013, on a minimum quantity of 500,000 tonnes of freight, as well as stricter infrastructure and other requirements, will have to meet ports of national importance, and will only have access to cohesion and other EU funds, as they will meet the requirements laid down in Regulation 1315 of 2013. I would also like to highlight the members of 86 and 87 who have done a detailed standard of the matter of the granting of port concessions, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Public Private Partnership and concessions and the Public Procurement Act. It was divided into two types of port concessions and a concession for services, when the concession is given for the provision of port services and concessions for public works. When the concession is given for the construction of port buildings and buildings. In line with market participants' requirements, the number of port fees has been reduced to only two compensations, which are charged in daily business, which are, under one, compensation for the operational use of the port, i.e. the ports paid for the authorisation, for the performance of port operations and which are paid by port operators who are only entering the port services market of the Republic of Serbia following an earlier public collection procedure. Under two, a deck which is paid only if the ship uses the operational coast for some other purpose than loading cargo. It is not less important that, despite the requirements laid down in technical rules for the registration of inland navigation ships as well as ships for the load of dangerous goods and other ships prescribed by the international agreement, they must comply with the requirements laid down for the classification of recognised classification companies. In the part governing the ship's navigation capacity, certain additions to the laws governing, among other things, the way in which the banning mark is highlighted, the mandatory carrying of copies of ship's documents and books on thrusters and jars, as well as the validity of a provisional testimony on the ability of a floating facility to move for the purpose of special transport, have been made. Due to all of this, the SPS Parliamentary Group will support all three legislative projects in the voting day and will vote in favour of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22167	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Blagoja Bradić, has the word, and let the Messenger Vladimir Orlic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22168	I thank Mr President-in-Office, Madam Minister, distinguished guests, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, before I say anything in this principle debate about these three laws we are discussing, which is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, then the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Belonging and entering a vessel and third law, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation. Dear citizens, I'd like to explain to you in a few words what such a gallant debate was about the time of this session's appointment. So, that fundamental objection that we, as opposition MPs, had toward the congregation's majority and the chairmanship that this session was scheduled contrary to Article 86. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which it says, and in order to make it clearer to you, I will read it to you – the session of the National Assembly convenes the President of the National Assembly by written means, as a rule, at least seven days before the date set for the beginning of the session. The meeting of the National Assembly may also be convened within a short period of time than the term set out in Article 1, where the President of the National Assembly is required to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. The meeting session of the National Assembly shall include the day, hour and place of session and a proposal for the agenda. The President of the National Assembly may postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, which he shall inform the MPs of in good time, by having to explain such a procedure at the beginning of the session. I read this whole article so that it wouldn't be to read just what corresponds to the opposition, not what the Rules of Procedure say about the work of the National Assembly, but besides, the chairman and the assembly majority had the right to schedule a session in a period shorter than seven days, but we think that such laws and such serious topics require a little more time so that we can discuss them more in quality. The suggestion of the Prime Minister's proposal, the chairman and colleagues who appeared from the assembly majority was that it had entered the procedure two, three months ago. I just want to point out that on the moment the motional session is called, we can withdraw, supplement, amend the bill, and therefore we think that we should have those seven days that will benefit the congregation's majority, and also we from the opposition to take a better look at the proposed laws. I'm just going to say it in a few words, because there's been a lot of talk about this set about these three laws to say something about the bill and the additions to the Law on Maritime Navigation. Well, we think that the law represents the harmonisation of certain institutes with the Maritime Labour Convention, which has been adopted by the international organisation of work that we ratified on 18 October 2011. I'll tell you first some positive suggestions and what observations they had about this law in the last three days as far as we've had. The bill agrees with domestic legislation by regulating the work of persons under the age of 18, the shipowners' obligation to conclude the insurance policy in case of death or damage to the work of the seafarer, which we think is extremely good and should be supported. The obligation of the home employer to enable and pay for the medical examination and periodic examination of the seafarer. I think we should all support that, and that's good in this bill. Doctors, specialists who will conduct these specialized specialist examinations of this particular branch of the economy, people working in this specific branch of the economy are then licensed. Licensing health institutions that will receive such insurance, not to tell patients to review and state those ISO standards that need to be adopted by health institutions in order to be able to carry out such systematic checks. The provisions of the Convention on the Identification of Seafarers, number 185 per sea, are further introduced into the law, as a public document proving the ability of the seaman, the health status, the crew member's property and the duration of the ship's employment. This removes the problems of our seamen, such as the ban on temporary departure on land, the problems of the transfer ban, or transit crossing without a visa in case of repatriation, and through a country that requires the possession of a visa in a passport for such a type of crossing. In addition, a biometric identification card for a seafarer is introduced to prove identity and Serbian citizenship. The process of recognising the authority for the work of the seafarer is detailed, and the law agrees with the Law on Infringements and is now very interesting, which took effect on 1 March 2014. On a few occasions, and in the light of these laws, these bills, since I don't have much time, I don't want to read it now so I won't bother you, but it is called that the urgency and necessity of the adoption of these laws is to comply with the Law on Violations that came into force on 1 March 2014, I remind you now is February 2015 and I can only ask Mrs. Minister - what was waiting until February 2015? If it's urgent and necessary, why hasn't it been done so far? If it's someone's fault, I'd ask you to tell us to share it with us here whose fault it is, and how did you, as a resolutely in charge, sanction the minister? Now let me ask you from this area a few questions. Why have the provisions of the cited conventions not been incorporated into this law before? Namely, the Law on Maritime Navigation was adopted in 2011 and the novelty is in 2013? That's the first question. Why wasn't there a public debate? You, as a promoter, state that there was no such obligation because the bill does not change the relevant provisions of the applicable law. We don't agree with that. It is not true, we think new institutes are being introduced, procedures and bodies are being arranged, a body of rights and the obligations of the seamen now in the country of Serbia has some data of about 5,000. Then, the health institutions' obligations, the Port Captain's Office of Belgrade, many issues from this area will be resolved, as you have mentioned, by the government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation. It's unacceptable your argument because only one thing I'm talking about is the matter of urgency, because only one member of this bill refers to the Law on Infractions, so it wasn't in my opinion that you in all these laws, which is, according to the President's decision of December 10th or December 15th, the decision of the Assembly took off the urgency, which was just a matter of controversy, and you, on your documents, made it an emergency procedure. That's why this comment is mine. More important than the previous, and in connection with an emergency procedure, it is the provision of Article 14, i.e. Article 15 Communication from the European Commission on the training of third countries. They apply on the day of Serbia's EU accession and thus excludes urgency and Article 16(6). – Introduction of ISO standards for seafarers health checks and Article 20. - the transfer of seafarers from night to day work based on these specialist reviews has been implemented since 1 January 2018. So, as far as this law is concerned, I'd like to ask you to give those few answers. Now I would like to say a few words about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. We think there are many solutions to this law that you have proposed. Amendment of the law unsettled and contradictory. For example, the provisions of the proposal on a water traffic development strategy, in fact water traffic, I apologize, water traffic, are not clear in that provision which controls the implementation of the strategy and the action plan arising from the strategy and resulting from the strategy that you will bring, there is no deadline for the adoption of the action plan. He's important because without deadlines that can be extended if they're not a precise strategy, it's unusable and it loses its meaning. Furthermore, according to the competences and the work of the Port Management Agency, we cannot consider the Agency as a public agency within the meaning of the Public Agency Act. It is the agency that decides on port concessions, concludes concession contracts, issue of port operating permits, determines the level of concession fee, etc., which is the state administration's business for us, rather than the agencies, which would be more appropriate for the public administration. In that sense, we have tried amendments, Madam Minister, to define the legal substance of the agency, so I hope you will pay attention to these amendments and if something fits your political vision of solving this problem, to accept. We think that the draft law is unsettled in terms of the responsibility of the board of directors of the agencies, especially the lack of a way and condition for the selection of the director of the agency and its competence, which we think should have been specified in this law, and here we have given a few amendments to try to edit that part of the law better with the co-operation with the assembly majority. The award of port concessions is no doubt of great value to legal transactions. We see here a lack of law regarding the degree of control of the agency. In fact, the bill stipulates that the medium-term port concession plan is only being delivered to the agency at the request of the ministry. So there's no binding restriction, i.e. instructions. We believe that this medium-term plan must be delivered to the government, in order for the government to have permanent control in the work of the agency, I say, which has great authority and makes very important decisions and very expensive ones, especially when issuing very expensive concessions, according to what I have read, it is over five million and one hundred and sixty-six thousand euros, you correct me if I am wrong. That's about what I had in principle to say about this set of bill. And let me ask you one more thing, you stayed in debt just before answering one question, it's not specific about these laws, but it's about the harbor. Kolega Jankovic asked if it would be realised, announced a project of wateriness in Danube, Morava, Vardar, Thessaloniki, it is the Aegean Sea, I ask for the simple reason why this channel would pass the Nis as a waterway. Many Nislims have property on the coast of the Morava River and so that people know how to set themselves according to future investment, because that, you will admit and agree with me, is an extremely large investment and it is an extremely large construction venture. Is that a little bit of digging uphill and it is that we have some water, but probably those people who came up with it have those solutions, so I'd ask you to answer me, and that's what the citizens of Nisha are interested in, is that certain? If it is, when it's the plan of these beginnings, because logically it's not something that's been done for a year or two, it's probably a demanding decades' work, because it's a huge construction job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22169	Thank you, Mr. Bradic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22170	Now I get it. Either your colleague Janko Vesenović copied from you, or you copied from him, something is certain, or you prepared together, since nothing concrete, anywhere is a fundamental dilemma or a question, and yet the same thing. Let's do it again. So, the urgency of the procedure, you didn't have three days to see this law so that the citizens of Serbia would know it. This law was handed over to the Serbian Parliament on 15 December, one, two and three, so the amendments and the amendments to the law were submitted to the Serbian Parliament on 15 December last year, right, the urgency was written, you were the one who removed that word of urgency from December 15th to this day, today was February, you had time to look at the law both of them and third. I stress that one of these laws only has a change in two members. I believe you've had enough time to get to know the law. Then let's go over the convention again. The convention was adopted in 2006, ratified in 2011. Why hasn't it been put up today since 2011? Because you have a change, or amendment in 2013, which is also included in the amendments and additions to this law. I repeat again, therefore, the Serbian government has been praised by the International Labour Organisation for it, because one of the few states that has put the latest changes into amendments and additions to the law. Let me get back to the strategy. It seems to me that you haven't read the strategy, because if you had read the Water Traffic Strategy, then you would see that it also says very clearly who is monitoring and in what way and what is the procedure. So, both the Ministry and the Government and the establishment of a committee. You would also read that there is an action plan that is being done and all that the Ministry does is not do as some previous government did, to pass the law, so that one law stands for a year, two, three without its actions, or without its action plans, strategies, but we do it together and we do it in parallel. When you talk about the Agency, about no surveillance, that surveillance is triple. You haven't paid attention again. So, the First Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure and Construction is overseeing the workmanship, the Ministry of Finance of Financial Business, the Ministry of Labour over the implementation of the Labour and Office Business Act. So it's triple surveillance of the Agency's work. When you mention the Director of the Agency, then there is another law that regulates the election of the Director of the Agency, and not this law, that is to say, amend and supplement these laws that are ahead of you. At one point, you wrote it down, you wrote it down -- a political vision of the law. I have to say, I don't quite understand what a political vision of the law is. This law is passed to make Serbia better. These laws, amendments to the laws are passed because we increase the participation of water transport in total transport. These laws are adopted in order to enable us to be in line with all European directives, so that we can use all the roads, i.e., above all corridor 7, on which very little has been done. So these laws are not political laws. These laws are really laws that should bring good to Serbia and Serbia's economic growth. When you mention that channel and take care of the citizens of Nis, your concern for the citizens of Nis and for all citizens was known in the previous period. Don't worry, no one will be flooded. So, about what priority projects are you can see very clearly not only in the government report, in the reports of this ministry. We're only working on priority projects right now. One small addition, mentioned by your colleague, is that the Serbian government paid for a feasibility study, which is not the correct data. The feasibility study was done without compensation for that channel you mentioned. Just for the record. I think I've repeated everything your colleague asked me once again, what I've already answered and what you've already asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22171	I thank Vice President Mihajlović. Mr. Bradiche, do you think you have the right to a replica? (Blagoje Bradic, from the post: Madam Minister spoke to me all the time. But I'm asking you, how did you know that in the first second of Mrs. Mihajlović's call, because you immediately pressed and answered the word? So you knew in the first second that you'd have the right to a replica. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: As soon as she spoke to me, she spoke to me. ) Mrs. Mihajlovic is now finished, and you have already answered the replica in the first second. How did you know that Mrs. Mihajlovic would speak to you? And she didn't address anything negative, so you don't have the right to a replica. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22172	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to express once again the support of the SNS to the proposed legal solutions, given that today many things are said, in a few words of all, to once again underline the good things that these proposed solutions, proposals for the three laws that are before us, contain. In the first place, when it comes to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, this, as well as the other two laws, with the proposed solutions, introduces additional quality in terms of new order, which is always in every opportunity to praise, giving effective answers to the issues which are primarily present in practice, resolving certain issues and concerns, therefore, order, efficiency, seen and in basic motivation, which consists of both in accordance with domestic laws and with the best world standards that we can currently find. When it comes to this second one, it concerns, first of all, regulations, directives, good recommendations. We have already discussed this in this room today, on Regulation 1315 of the EU. It's about introducing a new modern port classification. In this room and on other laws, other areas, related or not to this one, we have always expressed our support for all the solutions that are in the spirit of time and that make this country and this society modern. That's right this time. When it comes to efficiency and the existence of good hearing, and in this sense I give compliments to the Ministry, for people who are professionally engaged in the area in question. I also commend the fact that we have reduced the number of fees, which is also always a good intensity, always a good practice, and always something that will come up with support from our ranks. On the same law, I also welcome the proposed solutions concerning the procedures for determining port areas and ports, as a good response to the needs of practice. Also, there were words on the subject today in this room. These solutions are also a good answer for the interest discussed by our society, which was written by our media, potential new actors in the sphere of port operators. As the case may be, the Chinese consortium of port operators, as well as the involved actors in this area from European countries, as well as those coming from the UAE. More than a very good response to potential interest and the potential opening of new important activities in this sphere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I am taking the opportunity to give thanks once again for a good understanding of all the proposed amendments that have been formulated before our parliamentary group and submitted by counterpart Rakic. When we talk about establishing good standards, both international and domestic compliance with domestic laws, we have been able to find evidence that these amendments and additions have been made in accordance with domestic laws, both with the law mentioned regarding the transport of dangerous substances and with the law concerning violations. But with amendments and laws that we had the opportunity, honor and pleasure to consider together only two months ago, for example, I remind you of more than a fruitful discussion when it comes to planning issues. This way, we talked about a united procedure back then. We've found a good way to get what's good from the solutions we've already talked about on another level, not so long ago, to find their place in this problem. When it comes to harmonising with domestic laws, we can find this motive also in an explanation for the proposed solutions to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Belongance and the registration of a vessel. In addition, another commendation on my part for the solutions specifically addressed to the relaxation of formal obligations in this legislative proposal, again for people who are professionally engaged as actors in this area. So once again, new efficiency. The same kind of motivation we were able to find in the solutions that were proposed and in the law regarding maritime navigation. International standards, good regulation. We were also able to hear comments about the International Labour Organisation Convention, but once again, I also note that in this place, good answers to the questions of the practical needs of people who are direct actors. Here, when we talk about sailors, we think about their needs in the field of insurance, their needs in the field of health care. Both of us, we'll agree, I'm sure, are just things to praise. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen, given that we have reached a very good consensus on all the good and useful that comes from these solutions and this last law. I also thank you for a good understanding, given that the amendments of counterpart Rakic were also aimed at making our contribution to further and wider compliance with high standards. I don't think there's really any reason why we can't achieve both understanding and common positive, encouraging an approach that will support all these solutions when we get to vote day. In more than one sentence or two. I would refer to what we've been able to hear today on the subject of possible grudges, both these laws and the dynamics they found themselves in this room today. I think we've already said enough, more than enough about the date when these laws arrived at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on December 8, 23 and 31, respectively. We don't have to waste our energy anymore, but I remind even those colleagues who in this day's debate have pleaded as those who do not support these laws and these solutions and who, under one, took note in their criticism of the time dedicated to preparing and discussing, that they have just used the words – why these solutions have not been realised before. So, if at the same time we have a grudge in terms of being too hasty and we call for a little bit more, I believe that we will understand that there is actually an excessive motive for criticism and there is no, to a logical relationship between someone who does not currently make up the ruling majority, someone who does not participate, who does not participate in the work of the government and therefore feels the need to criticise it anyway, because it is a natural position with a real state and a real opinion that can under these laws and their solutions. When it comes to costs, there was a discussion today, it seems to me about an hour or two ago on the subject of what is shown in the accompanying materials. I would call for precision and a good understanding of everything we've been able to read in the arguments that follow these laws. Therefore, when it is said that there are no costs for the state and for the system, there is no need to seek counter arguments in the free interpretation of what is next, and in this sense I point to accompanying material and the costs that have been established as certain costs for citizens, not for the state, not for the system, but for the issue of some new documents. The People's Bank has been mentioned, and I'm also going to take this opportunity to call for precision, if we look at it in any way or in any way. Only through the finding that it as an institution has adequate technical opportunities, that it meets high standards, the highest possible quality and that it meets the requirements relating to the personalisation of these personal documents. These are ladies and gentlemen just things that we as a society can be proud of, that we have an institution capable of meeting such standards. There wasn't a word about expenses. All in all, when the line is drawn, I believe that, regardless of how we generally declare whether we support these legal solutions or not, we will show in the voting day that we have absolutely nothing against, on the contrary, that we consider them more than useful all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22173	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The word is Ivan Jovanovic, and let Nikola Jolovic prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22174	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to begin by commending, in addition to this urgency in the procedure that I believe could have been avoided and that there are many other laws that are more important today for the citizens of Serbia, I would like to commend the Ministry, especially when it comes to the Law on the Registration of Ships and the Law on Maritime Navigation, as these amendments bring our legislation into line with the Law on Violations and International Conventions, whose bonds we are. In that sense, and as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs in the previous meeting, I was commended for the minister's account of compliance in this sector of the law, but I did not have the commendation when it came to application, and that is what I think the biggest problem is the general state of Serbia, because we are making too many laws that are generally or only partially applied. This is a big problem for me, and I hope that these changes we bring today will not remain in that sense a dead letter on paper. In this third law that speaks of sailing and ports on internal waters, it seems to me to be good for both the state of Serbia and the citizens, which has stopped talking about a famous study of the Danube-Egey Sea channel, and this is no longer a joke-level topic, as three years of pointless stories have ceased about some channel that can contribute to the phenomenal development of Serbia and economic growth. I think it's time we turned to real issues. When in your explanation you say it is good that the Agency is no longer on the burden of the budget and that 150 million is no longer something directly paid by Serbian citizens, I think it is only fine if the burden that participants, users and businesses are now engaged in waterways and inland waters benefit and benefit from the benefits and benefits of these changes, because, if they do not make revenues at least at that level larger in which we prepare new burdens for them, then we have not achieved success. If we do not achieve the growth in this sector that we are achieving in terms of the new costs we impose on them, then we have not achieved success. If we do not achieve a new quality in this regard, we have not achieved success. I'd like you to tell me if you've done any research, whether a new state intervention is ready, some investment that will push this sector, make real growth possible, and if we have something new besides mere regulation, because we're witnesses that over the past years, that we're constantly bringing about a new regulation that we don't apply, and then the state itself doesn't use financial and other instruments to activate that regulation. The regulation itself doesn't serve anything for its own existence. If we regulate something, and it goes further into recession and there's no growth, then we didn't do anything. I think that you should continue to agree on the regulation this way, but I ask that you and the other ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia answer the questions of the MPs, because it is increasingly answered by these questions, and these questions are just being used to apply the laws that we bring here for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22175	The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22176	Here are just a few things, to start at the end – answers to questions, can only happen that something has not yet come up, otherwise the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure really answers all the questions. If we haven't answered anything by chance, I'd like to ask you to do it again. So we've always answered every question. You're absolutely right to amend and supplement the laws we're doing, we're doing it to improve the economic environment. One of the provisions of the Law has obliged the agency to invest in the development and port infrastructure of all the funds it raises. So, it can't just be the money she collected on the way to a fee to invest where she wants to, but only in development and port infrastructure. So in that sense I believe that it is better than it was and that, of course, I also agree that it is very important how the law is applied, that it is very important to monitor and control constantly. That's why we have the inspection. She and this law, as well as the other laws that we make, have far more ingenuity now than she had before, and that's ours to say under the terms of the supposed fist when we talk and when we talk about law enforcement. The inspections have to do their job, and we have enough of them to do their job in that sense. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22177	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22178	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Ministerial, fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on Maritime Navigation, because the Republic of Serbia is certainly a state that has no sea, but that does not mean that there can be no sailors and ships of the merchant navy that carry our national flag. Large and significant maritime countries, such as Portugal or Spain and so-called third countries, i.e. non-EU countries, have given this area as one of the activities to which the countries were created, expanded and developed and which was the backbone of economic and military power, have given it the place to which it belongs and defined it by laws that shape all the elements and possibilities of navigation. They are fully in line with the relevant decisions, charters and conventions of the EU or in mutual agreements with third countries, and from the sea and under the sea through all types of vessels, to the relations between the States which are made with the contacts of the ship and the crew, both in ports and in the seas. It's an interesting definition of sea navigation. Maritime navigation is a navigation carried out at sea and rivers to the border to which they are watered on the sea side. It is clear that maritime navigation can be carried out by water facilities that meet the appropriate conditions for navigation. This indicates that our country can have water facilities and crews carrying out sea navigation, and our sailors may also be crew members of ships that are not marked by our flag. The current Maritime Navigation Act published in Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia No. 87/11 and 104/13 in the framework of the introductory provisions defined in Article 1: Article 1 – This law regulates the conditions and arrangements for safe navigation on sea of maritime vessels carrying the flag of the Republic of Serbia and other vessels registered in one of the domestic registers, their capacity to sail, crews, the protection of seas against pollution from ships, surveillance and other issues relating to the safety of maritime navigation. Next, while respecting the objectives and policies led by SNS and Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, which is the development of the country and the EU's entry into the area of legislation through analysis and harmonisation of standards, rules and laws with EU legislation, normally with respect to our specificities, Serbia should also adopt this law on amendments to the Law on Maritime Navigation. In view of the fact that the International Labour Organisation Convention on Seagulls No. 108 was adopted in 1958 and that it was contained in the existing 2011 Law and that the International Labour Organisation adopted the Convention on the Labour of Seafarers in 2006, which was ratified by 38 Member States of the International Labour Organisation and which entered into force in June 2012, and that this law further brings the domestic legislation into line with the relevant provisions of the Convention on the work of seafarers, which regulates the work of persons under the age of 18 and the obligation of shipowners to conclude the insurance policy or other financial guarantee in order to seek a case of death or damage to the work of seamen. Knowing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has adopted the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel document, this proposal provides for compliance with the provisions of this law, and the regulation that maritime books cannot be used as travel documents, and that domestic citizens working as seamen are allowed to proceed uninterruptedly with operations on ships of foreign flags and also overcome the problems of the ban on transfers in case of repatriation or ban on temporary departure on land, this law introduces provisions of the Convention on Seafarers' Cards into the domestic legislation. Given that the Convention on the Identification Cards of Seafarers has ratified the influential coastal states and finally the bill provides for compliance with the provisions of the Law on Infringements, adopted in March 2014, and is also the basis for the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure. I have listed the most significant changes compared to existing legal solutions, but I particularly want to highlight the fact that these changes create the necessary preconditions for better and better quality work, primarily by adopting them as final benefits. Benifits include the formation of an electronic marine database, which prevents the black market in this activity, and also our sailors, based on evidence and certificates issued, become equal competitors with all other sailors of the world, of course, in competition for maritime affairs, and this will certainly affect increased engagement and it is estimated that the number of sailors from 5,000 will increase to 7,000 people. Their money transfers to families in Serbia will grow, resulting in a rise in standards and GDP. Organisations that can train sailors and rules of their work are defined, and the obligation to sign a labour contract with each seafarer. Perhaps the most significant thing is that the full order will be introduced in the insurance of the seamen, especially by estimating the fact of the number and type of maritime accidents and the professional diseases of the seamen, and health care is raised to a significantly higher level and the work with people under the age of 18 is precisely defined. It is normal that the parts of this law, which define a maritime identification card, cannot be applied immediately because of the technical unpreparedness of the body, which will issue them, will be applied from 1.1.2018, and that the ministry will apply for funds from available EU funds for the purpose of technical equipment and training of the administration for the issue of these documents, and that, after the adoption of this Bill, the relevant rules must be adopted in the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. In view of the importance of the rules of maritime navigation, I will quote Article 3 of the current law - relations which are not governed by this law and other regulations adopted under this law, the customs in maritime navigation shall apply. In fact, customs have great significance and many of those who have become an integral part of the first-formed bonton, and as an example, the entry or exit of the ship into the port is defined by rules of avoidance of collisions at sea, which has always been preferred by the ship located in the port because it has an extremely reduced maneuvering space, as well as by the rules of fine and acceptable behaviour, the advantage always comes from the one who comes out of the room compared to the one who wants to enter that room at the same time. Therefore, on the basis of this argument, I believe that the solutions offered in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation are very high-quality, and necessary from the aspect of compliance with EU standards and laws, so I believe that we have only benefits and that there are no obstacles to the adoption of this bill and in the day of voting the SNS will vote for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22179	The word has Mirjana Djokovic, and be prepared Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22180	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister of Associates, dear colleagues, today three related laws are very important to us. When we talk about the Law on Maritime Navigation, this bill further agrees with domestic legislation with the relevant provisions of the ILO Convention on the work of seamen who regulate the work of persons under the age of 18 and the obligation of shipowners to conclude a insurance policy or other financial guarantee in order to cover claims for the event of death or damage to the seafarer at work. When it comes to maritime books, I think there's been a lot of talk about it today, a lot of colleagues have absorbed on the subject. The maritime booklet will no longer serve as proof of nationality and will no longer serve as a travel document, but is proposed to introduce itself into the legal system of maritime identification cards containing biometric data based on a fingerprint, as public documents, thus proving identity in accordance with the provisions of the Convention. The entry into force of this part of the law will affect the increased interest of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this profession. Currently, five thousand are working on seaships by the flag. We believe that these legal alignments will affect the number of Serbian sailors to seven thousand, but will also attract foreign shipowners to put part of their fleet under the Serbian flag. The bill provides for seafaring contracts to be registered at the port captain's office in Belgrade. The bill provides that medical specialists performing medical examinations by seamen must have complete professional independence in making medical evaluations when performing a medical examination, in order to make the safest decision on the ability of a particular person to carry out tasks at sea. The cost of obtaining these identification tickets is now not possible to predict, but it is well known that it will not be more than the level of price that citizens pay for issuing driving licences. The consequences of the adoption of this law will fully justify the costs to be incurred for citizens. In addition to adopting certain sublegislative acts, the implementation of this law will also require certain funding for the technical equipment of the Belgrade Port Authority. The ministry of construction, transport and infrastructure will apply to funds from available European funds, in order to achieve the technical capacity of the Port Authority of Belgrade for the smooth implementation of the provisions of the law. When it comes to the second law, the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, they will certainly have a positive impact on most of the participants in internal water transport. This proposal extends the powers of the navigation safety inspector in relation to the control and prevention of cargo operations by companies which have not obtained the authorisation to carry out port operations. The envisaged system of expanding port areas will become a centre for the development of a wider economy, resulting in new investments, and thus the creation of new jobs. Every port operator, through a system of port concessions, will strengthen the port infrastructure itself. This law sort of overcomes the problems of ownership over port land, where certain port operators acquired the right to use through the privatisation process, but did not build anything on that land. There is once again available on port land, without any legal burden, and port operators are given the opportunity to build planned port facilities to obtain certain revenues. This law provided for a financial transparency procedure under which the Port Management Agency and port operators provide port users with information on all the elements on which the accounting system is established or the level of port charges. Detailed provisions on ship dispatch are discussed in this law, with the aim of introducing order in the use of coastal and water spaces in the territory of units of local self-government. Therefore, certain local self-governments will be obliged to remove their ships from their current locations at the location where shipping is allowed. The following period planned to purchase 12 inspection boats, as well as the purchase of official cars for 12 port captains. The State will invest through the Port Management Agency in port infrastructure and thus raise the level of service by port operators. All of this will have a positive impact on increasing the price competitiveness of port services and thus will reduce the time of detention of transport units in ports, the transport costs will be reduced, and all of this will certainly have a positive impact on the ultimate cost of the goods. The application of this law will have an effect on the creation of new operators on the market and on market competition. During the application of this law, the following sublaws should be adopted, and I will list only some of them, and as you said today, some have already been adopted: the Water Traffic Development Strategy from 2015 to 2025, the Action Plan for implementing established water traffic development priorities, the Medium-term Port concessions plan and the decision on the level and manner of payment of port and port fees. The Third Act on State ownership and registration of a vessel aims to comply with the provisions of this Act with the Law on Infringements, so that the conduct of the infringement proceedings is transferred to criminal courts. I would just like to give an example of the good practice of Lake Medivhršje, which is located a few miles from Cačka to Užica, in Serbia's Sveta Gora, which numbers about 400 boats located in the area of the lake. The specificity of this area is that it is a protected area and the tourist organization Cačak owns two catamarans for sailing and one large ship owned by the company Morava Cačak. It is an area of specific features, and the lake is forbidden to drive boaters due to noise and protected species at the site. The real tourist attraction is driving with these water resources for tourists visiting the Ovčar-cablar monastery, but quite enough respect for legal provisions has been achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22181	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Bojanic, and Irena Alexic should be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22182	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, counselor, colleague and colleague, we have before us a set of draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law in the field of maritime and navigation. I'll be very brief, given that we've heard a lot today and a lot is positively said about all three draft laws. I'm going to say a few words about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nationality, which only has three members. Its amendments and additions are primarily caused by the need to comply with this law with the provisions of the Law on Infringements, in the act relating to the procedure or the conduct of the shipping infringement commission in the first degree, which removes the powers of the same infringement procedure and thus is abolished, as well as the provisions of Article 54. The law which determines that the employment of foreigners holding all necessary documents in accordance with the Law on Maritime Navigation does not require residence approval, in accordance with the law defining the stay and movement of foreigners, as well as the work permit, under the law on the employment of foreigners. The next draft law is the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, which primarily brings home legislation into line with the provisions of the Maritime Labour Convention, which also ratified this Assembly in 2011, as well as 37 other countries. This proposal is a priority to address the problems of Serbian citizens of the seamen they face in their daily work and to define themselves closer and to comply with the provisions concerning the work of persons under 18 years of age, the obligation of the shipowner to conclude insurance policies in the event of a seafarer's injury or death, the obligation of our employer to provide periodic medical examinations of the seafarers, the obligation of medical examination before entering the ship, and all about the cost of the employer. This also entails the obligation of the medical institution to license doctors who carry out specialist examinations of the seamen. The bill also provides for the appearance and shape of a maritime book, which are prescribed by the Convention on the Identification Card of the Seafarer of the International Labour Organisation, so that our sailors can carry out their tasks in the flags of foreign states, i.e. to avoid being banned from temporary departure to the mainland where a seafarer is required to own a maritime identification card, as well as in the event of a ship change and transfer across the territory of states requiring the possession of visas in a travel document. When a sailor doesn't have an identification card, he has to have a visa, which creates big problems. The draft law defines the maritime book as a public document of the seafarer, which proves, among other things, that it is capable of training, health status, identity and our citizenship. What's mentioned in the bill of the previous law, and here is the alignment with the Law of Infractions. Finally, it should be pointed out that certain provisions of the bill, Article 15, which concern powers for the work of seamen, the powers of training, will apply from the moment Serbia is admitted to the EU. And finally, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports in internal waters. I'll just say that first of all, the harmonisation of the law with the Law on Infringements, the Law on Planning and Construction and the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Freights has been carried out. In the part of determining the capacity of vessels to sail, harmonising our rules with the European Agreement on the International Transport of Dangerous Freights on Internal Waterways and the European Agreement on the Main Internal Waterways of International Matters, and the Trans-European Transport Network Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22183	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Let Ivana Stojljkovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22184	Thank you. Dear Presidents, a respected minister with associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, today we are discussing three extremely important laws. Before I say anything more individually about them, I would like, first of all, to point out that any envisaged changes and additions will significantly improve the quality of all three laws and what may be most important of all, to improve their effective application in practice, which is the point of everything. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation, what may be the most important and what all my colleagues have so far pointed out, it is that a very detailed and very precise explanation of the process of issuing maritime identification cards. This practice has already led to many countries coming out to the sea, both those countries that ratified the Convention on Identification Cards and also those countries that began with its practical application and before the ratification of the Convention, such as China, Japan, the United States, Great Britain and others. What the objective of this change is to help our sailors working on foreign ships, to help them in such a way that they no longer face the problems they have faced so far. These problems are viewed primarily in the ban on temporary departure on land in ports where the identification card is required, then, problems when there is a need for emergency ship change, as well as in many other situations that can occur when sailing. In particular, the change of members of 84 significantly improves the position of seamen, which, of course, will result in a greater interest in young people for this profession, and hopefully resulting in an increase in the number of seamen, which now stands at about 5,000, to some 7,000 seamen. What I would especially like to praise with the changes and additions that I would like to say is that, I would make sure that the rights and interests of the seamen are kept in the best way possible, perhaps given that this is not a simple profession, but that this is a high-risk profession. Thus, for the future purpose of keeping their interests, the domestic employer will be obliged to register a seafarer's contract with the port captain of Belgrade. Also, mandatory social security is foreseen. So, in every way, it was taken care to help control whether all the obligations prescribed by law were settled when the seamen were involved. What will certainly make it easier to control and revive the law in practice, is that when this law comes into force it is envisaged to adopt a series of sublegal acts, which are very precise and very detailed. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters, particularly the envisaged changes and additions reflect positively on port operations. What I would especially point out is that from now on, all ports will be open to international traffic. I don't think there's much to explain. The port classification is then abandoned. The ports will no longer be divided into ports open to domestic traffic and ports open to international traffic. Only ports of international importance will now exist and of the province's importance. Once again, I stress, both ports and other ports will be open to international traffic. The only difference will be that only ports of international importance will have access to EU funds. What may be most important and what I would particularly point out when they are amended and complemented by this law is that a very important area will be legally regulated, i.e. the rule of law will be introduced into a strong important area, i.e. the entities which have so far performed the port's activity without permission, that there is no least interest in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that these entities represent unfairly for other entities who and how they regularly settle all their legal obligations, from now on these entities will have to submit a request to regulate their legal status. In order to do so in practice, it is provided for the authorisation, i.e. the extension of the authority of the navigation safety inspector. Since it is more than known that these people are working in really difficult conditions, it is envisaged that in the next five years, if I am not mistaken, 12 inspection boats are provided to enable these people to carry out their work in a smooth and efficient manner. Next, the proposed changes and additions reduce the number of passenger charges to two. Now all funds collected through port fees will be invested in port infrastructure, which is, if we take into account the state of most ports in Serbia, and as necessary. So now, the state of Serbia, through the Port Management Agency, will finally be able to invest in its ports, and of course, by getting some modern, well-equipped, modern ports, everyone will win. By keeping transport funds much shorter in ports, many other costs will be reduced. In particular, indirect transport costs will be reduced. All this together and how it will positively affect the ultimate price of goods, which is the goal. Also, the proposed changes and additions will improve the market and market competition will improve. Generally speaking, I believe that all the proposed changes and additions are of extreme quality and that in the best possible way they will improve this area, which is otherwise of great importance for our country, and that in the day of voting, of course, they will receive full support from the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22185	Thank you. The word has Ivana Stojiljković, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22186	Thank you. Dear Minister and Guests, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are before us today, we have heard many times, a very important three laws, and above all all three are focused on strengthening our water traffic, strengthening Corridor 7, or the Danube Corridor, and also strengthening our economic potential, where the river ports will now represent economic centres. As far as the first law is concerned, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, there is the most significant change of port concessions, as we have heard, and some of the more important changes are that port captains will give consent to landing ships outside the border. This will now prevent illegal unloading of goods and will also contribute to the contribution of authorised inspectors involved in the safety of navigation, so that inspectorates are strengthened in their jurisdiction and will contribute in this regard. Also, a licensed medical specialist is introduced, because it is believed that a specialist in medicine is very important for this profession because sailors have very specific working conditions and therefore specialists have to take care of their health. They are considered to be a health-threatening category. In particular, I would like to draw particular attention to the importance of the protection of the environment, which is regulated by Articles 24 and 25, or to the addition of these members, which say that a member of the law is complemented in the context of the introduction of the obligation of the master of the vessel to notify the port captain of the release of harmful substances, and Article 25 is prescribed that ships for the transport of dangerous goods, as well as other types of ships, in accordance with the provisions of international agreements, in addition to the requirements laid down technical rules, must meet the requirements laid down for the classification of recognised classification companies. This is very important because it is important to know that only about a hundred tons of oil derivatives are poured into the Danube annually. Unfortunately, there are a number of excises. A year ago, it was poured out, i.e. a boat in Lucy Belgrade with about 850 tonnes ore of pyrite. These are local agents that lead to pollution and the sea of flora and fauna, and that is why environmental protection and sustainable use of our water potential are of great importance, and these laws specifically regulate it. Also, it should not be forgotten that we have about 600 km of waterway, so this job is significant. As for the Law on Maritime Navigation, although we have repeatedly said that since we have no sea we still have to have this law, because we have about 5,000 seamen working on foreign ships, although experts say that the number of seamen is probably twice as high because most of them are going to work without the permission of the Port Captain in Belgrade, or in direct contact with shipowners. And today, a growing number of young people, looking for a more paid job, for safe finances, or a desire to travel, are deciding to work on overseas ships. In order for them to work, there must be a law like this, and the aim is to improve and protect the rights of the seamen. Among the most important changes is, as we have heard, the obligation of the shipowners to provide insurance in the event of an accident, for the home employer to provide a basic medical examination when entering the service of the ship, as well as for all other occasional inspections as necessary. Then, earlier, a mandatory licensed health care facility was specified, and as I have already mentioned, there will now be a specialist doctor who will be authorised for these types of examinations. I would just point out that according to the World Health Organization's analysis, as I've already said, sailors are classified as health-risk categories, both from the possibility of experiencing an accident, so there are so-called. Modern pirates are often depressed by specific conditions of working on board. Also, it is envisaged to comply with travel documents laws, where we have already heard that from now on there will be the identification cards of the seamen and that they will now serve to prove identity and citizenship. In addition to many other provisions that change and which we have heard today in the debate, these three laws are first and foremost strengthening these provisions, strengthening water traffic, strengthening the economy in our country and clearly protecting the environment in Serbia. Therefore, the SNS will support these three draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22187	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let Marko Atlagic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22188	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, a respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us with a set of laws relating to water traffic on internal waters, but also to traffic related to overseas ships. What I would like to stress above all is that the amendments and additions of these laws are consistent, that they are absolutely in line with the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, above all with the Law on Infractions, but also with the recognised international conventions relating above all to international traffic, i.e. to overseas traffic. What I particularly want to point out is that these amendments and additions of the law are absolutely in line with and with the observed shortcomings in the current application of the law, and that in order to address these shortcomings, there have been changes in their additions. As regards the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Navigation and Ports on Internal Waters, I would like to emphasise first and foremost the role of the Port Management Agency, in this sense, in this sense, that the competences of this Agency are now being established in a transparent manner. First of all, the responsibility of this agency is determined when it comes to forming a medium-term concession plan. This medium-term concession plan must also have an accurate demonstration of the economic effects, i.e. it must result in what the medium-term grant in the concession will give the state of Serbia, or what it will mean for our country's economic progress. Also, apart from the medium-term concession plan, the Port Management Agency is required to build at the end of the calendar year for the next calendar year and an annual concession plan that will also have a precise and clear economic effect on the award of concessions. Otherwise, as regards the award of concessions themselves, concessions can be granted for port services, and they include nautical services with a five-year deadline, transport services with a 15-year deadline and public works, i.e. building port infrastructure with a deadline of up to 30 years. In particular, I would like to point out that the Port Management Agency and that it has co-operation with port operators and port concessionaries and monitor what port concessionaries fulfill from contracts they have signed. This proposal for a law shows a very strong link, i.e. obligations and duties of the Port Management Agency, when it comes to its reporting to the Ministry of Economy and to the Ministry of Finance, as well as the obligation of the Port Management Agency to provide a concessionary who does not meet the conditions and as regards the construction of infrastructure facilities, may terminate the contract if those deadlines are not respected without the obligation to compensate for the costs of works that have already been made. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Maritime Navigation, it is, above all, significant with several aspects. The first aspect from which it is significant is the working-legal status of sailors. In fact, the Republic of Serbia has no sea, but the Republic of Serbia has over 5,000 sailors sailing on overseas ships. These sailors donate significant funds to their families, or to their families living in the Republic of Serbia. The establishment of their working legal status and how significant it is, and this is achieved through changes and additions to this law by the fact that the domestic employer is obliged to deliver the labour contract to the port company, and is also obliged to report to the Central Social Insurance Register, which certainly contributes to improving the working legal, economic and social status of the seafarers. Article 84 also detailed and precisely regulates the issue of maritime identification cards, but also clearly determines what needs to be contained in the maritime booklet, which is among other things, the degree of training of the seafarer, the health status of the seafarer, the position, that is, the place where he boards the ship, the length of the duration of work on board, and the maritime work book will no longer serve as a travel document when it is supplied with a visa. Of course, that the issue of a maritime identification card requires significant resources, but in this part I would like to commend the Ministry of Construction and Transport, or your ministry, Madam Minister, which you will apply to EU funds, in order to improve technical and technological equipment and only to ensure that the administration lasts as short as possible, of course, for the benefit of the seamen. As far as seafarers' medical training is concerned, I must point out that they are licensed specialists in medical work, who have undergone additional training regarding the estimated health skills of the seamen. In that sense, it is very important that they be professional and independent, because sailors must be absolutely psychophysicalally healthy and must not have any legal restrictions when boarding the ship. What also represents additional safety for our sailors is the insurance policy obligation, because we know that sailors are exposed to various major risks on board, and insurance policy in any case, or other financial guarantee and that it is significant from the aspect of the protection of seamen in the event of injuries, accidents, etc. All three laws have a significant aspect of economic development, because water transport and how significant it is on internal waters and how significant the country's economic development is. The laws are also important from the point of view of compliance with international conventions regarding seamen. And further work should be done together with the Ministry of Labour to further improve their working-law status and other status, given the work they do. The Serbian Progressive Party will support all three laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22189	The word is Marko Altagic, and have Milorad Cvetanovic prepare.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22190	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with Associates, allow me to express great satisfaction at the beginning of the honourable Minister that you as Minister in the past three years are one of those ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia who often resides in this high house, which speaks of your dedicated work and about the ministry you are leading as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I thank you very much. Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable MPs, this set of laws has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, who submitted to us the MPs in this high house on 27 April 2014. Let me remind you, for those who have forgotten, this is the most extensive, precise and concrete exposé of all 72 previous exposés submitted by the Prime Ministers to this National Assembly since 1805, so from the time of the first chairman, that is, Prote Mateja Nenadovic, to this day. Dear People's MPs, these laws have a foothold in the development strategy of fashion traffic made by our Ministry and adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is these laws we are searching today that represent the realisation of the drawn laws of the Prime Minister's exposé, in order to strengthen reforms that are difficult, which are painful, but which represent indeed the alpha and omega for the future of our country and the modernisation of Serbia, for which we all ultimately voted as citizens. The President-in-Office, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, the honourable MPs, is well that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Confirmation of the International Maritime Labour Organisation Convention in 2011. In addition to Serbia, the convention has ratified, as colleagues and colleagues have said, 37 states. It is very good that the Convention entered into force in June 2012. It is also great that the Republic of Serbia is doing this bill to further perfect our Serbian legislation with certain provisions of the Maritime Labour Convention. The provisions of this law regulate the work of persons under 18 years of age. It is good that this law also regulates shipowners' obligations to conclude an insurance policy or some other financial guarantee in order to cover claims in the event of death or damage to the work of the seamen. It is great that the provisions of this law have introduced the obligation of the home employer to ensure that a crew member can carry out a medical examination prior to his duty on board. Dear gentlemen, not only that, but based on the results of this proposal on its cost, it provides periodic health checks. It is good that this bill further specified that, besides the medical institution, medical care professionals who are authorised to perform medical examinations by seamen, and the obligation of health institutions to introduce a sustainable quality management system. It is good that this law on maritime navigation allows our citizens, i.e. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia who work as sailors continue uninterrupted with the carrying out of foreign flag ships. It is good, ladies and gentlemen, that this law introduces the provisions of the Convention into domestic Serbian citizenship and the identification map of the seafarers of the international organisation of work, number 185, because the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents is determined not to be used as travel documents. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation has provided for the amendment of Article 84. The law in such a way that the maritime book is defined as a public document proving the seafarer's ability to perform certain duties on board, then, on the basis of which a crew member is boarded, as well as the duration of the ship's employment. It is also good that this bill introduces the maritime identification card system that contains biometric data based on fingerprints as public documents, which prove not only identity, but also Serbian citizenship, all in line with the provisions of the convention. It is good, gentlemen, that this law encourages the economic development and growth of our country, which will improve the standard of living of our citizens. Finally, concerning this, an opposition MP duped Serbian citizens on the parliamentary issue this morning, said that a single citizen's consumer basket would require 60,000 dinars, which of course is not true. It is true that it is the spending basket of a four-member family, not one citizen, which deliberately, I say, has deceived citizens of the Republic of Serbia on purpose, which is not worthy of a single MP, especially as it is a university professor. I've been asked by students from that university to deny, which I do this time, and I thank you gentlemen very much. In the end, the SNS will vote for this set of laws. I call on you, gentlemen, the MPs of the opposition benches, unfortunately there are no of you but five, six sorrys, which you usually do almost every session, that you will vote for them too, because you will at least try so little, even so to make a small contribution to the reforms and modernisation of Serbia, which is so warmly supported by the Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, assisted by the President of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic, most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and most of the MPs in this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22191	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22192	I will discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation. The tradition of river shipping is older in Serbia than in the rail way of transporting goods and people. Serbia is subject to a stereotype that the country is a continental mentality, which never had a sea or navy, thus neither is maritime history. However, the fact is that Serbs have been sailing for centuries through seas, oceans and lakes around the world. Contemporary river shipping in Serbia began in 1862, when Prince Mihajla pointed out, from Russia he bought a steamer called "Deligrad", so named after the Deligrad bar in the First Serbian Uprising. He was made in France in 1851. He had a capacity of 275 tons and sailed happily and successfully over the half century Danube, Sava, and Tis. So today, world seas and oceans sail our seamen under other people's or their flags. There are about five thousand of them, scattered and scattered with only one idea, that the sea is calmer and the bread with seven crusts as pleasant as possible. Because of these people, the government of the Republic of Serbia will succeed in allowing our sailors to remain on ships around the world, as well as their free movement outside of the ships they are employed in, through this bill of law and its vote in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. By introducing a maritime identification card, our sailors will be allowed to leave the ship uninterrupted and have free access to the ground of the land they are in. Also, in the event of an emergency situation requiring a change in the vessel, which must be crossed over the territory of a country where visas are required for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, an identification card containing all relevant data from the owner, made by biometric principle, will allow a smooth passage across the territory of the same state. Undoubtedly, the abuse of maritime passports, which were undoubtedly in no small number, will be contained in this way. It is widely known that in 2008, the International Maritime Organisation warned relevant institutions in our country, the emergence of false maritime documents and the problem of the appearance of false maritime documents, the testimony of citizens of Serbia, boarded on foreign shipping companies, and that there was a risk of the removal of our country's white list of the International Maritime Organisation. The introduction of identification cards that the NBS will normally produce will prevent any compromise of the Republic of Serbia due to these phenomena, counterfeiting of maritime books and documents. I therefore believe that there will be a significant increase in the number of employees of our seamen in the world. In this regard, we are the very witnesses of the existence of agencies that offer employment to mostly young people on cruises engaged in the work of the catering and animation type, which will, in any case, speed up the flow of foreign money into our country, and will also facilitate for interested persons staying in the territory of foreign countries. In the future, the competent ministry will take care of the number of maritime books issued and control their use and duration. A significant regulation of the law also applies to persons below the age of 18, which requires the employer that they should not be employed if conditions on board can significantly disrupt their health status. Also, the employer's obligation to provide adequate health checks on the person's entry into office and to verify health skills after a certain period of time provided for by law. I believe that the bill is very affirmative and gives special attention to citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are employed to check around the world, as well as takes full care of the interests of the Republic of Serbia, while at the same time being fully compatible with EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22193	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of Mr Arsic, Honored Mrs Mihajlović and the Honored Guests of the Ministry, I believe that whoever comes on behalf of the Government to our Assembly, and Mrs Mihajlovic is our guest here today, and suggests, as Mrs Mihajlovic has done here, that we agree domestic legislation with the Convention of the International Maritime Labour Organisation, that this is okay. I also agree that it should be possible for our citizens to continue their activities on ships of foreign flags uninterruptedly, as I agree, gentlemen, to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Law on Infringements and Ports of Internal Waters and State Belongings and the registration of vessels. But, honored gentlemen, and respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, above all, I am not in agreement and as one of the MPs here I do not agree that anyone in the name of the Serbian Government, including Mrs. Mihajlovic, is sending to the National Assembly proposals for a law that is grammatically and spellingly not in line with the Serbian language, respected gentlemen. I am now also focusing on the MPs, of whom there are expectations here to read every sentence of every bill carefully. The Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, and here is his signature on these bill proposals addressed to the National Assembly, has sent us for today's discussion of texts which are in part grammatically and spellingly incorrect. Here you are, gentlemen. I'll show you around. In the reasons for the adoption of the law, for example, this law, which is now our first on the agenda here, on the additions to the Law on Maritime Navigation, the fourth paragraph, pay attention to the sentence, gentlemen, says – after the adoption of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on travel documents, the law provides for compliance with the provisions of this law. Dear gentlemen, where are some sort of line of words here? In one sentence, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, or in the next sentence, let's say that one is, but the next one says - that domestic citizens working as sailors would be allowed to proceed uninterruptedly with the carrying out of operations on ships of foreign flags, stuck, these laws are being introduced into domestic legislation... Or, gentlemen, if we want to bypass this paragraph, to go to the next paragraph, did we read this here? Mrs. Mihajlović, did you read it? I don't know if it's better to say you've read it or not. Here, the next paragraph says, first sentence – The bill is more detailedly edited by the process of recognising the authorisation for the work of the seamen. Gentlemen, how's that? Words are not in line with words in one sentence, gentlemen. Mrs. Mihajlović, I teach at the university, just like you. I have prepared for first year students FPN a manual for writing essays – essay, short form, three pages of text, a general problem being handled. The last paragraph reads to these students – final corrections should be made, for example, before handing over work. that behind the comma and the dots there is a space, that the words are correctly divided into styles when transferring to a new order, that the intertitles do not remain to hang at the bottom of the page, to check that the sentences are grammatically correct and clear, because the failures of this kind leave an impression of unseriousness and surface in the work. As much as I agree with the part of the approach, which I was talking about at the beginning, I cannot ignore this discrepancy with the Serbian language, which is important to us in the Assembly, gentlemen. How many times do we remember that the Assembly is our central political institution? We talk here all the time - the sanctuary of political life. The tongue must be suitable for that. We here need to be a role model for all citizens of our Republic, dear gentlemen, and also for the use of language. Mrs. Mihajlovic, we have submitted 16 amendments. I suggest you accept all 16. Most of it concerns the language, therefore, not only the arguments, but also the contents of the members of the bill, not the other one. This second one is very well written, about sailing and ports on the inner waters. We don't have any dilemmas here. Dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, I suggest you read this essay manual as well. I've prepared two copies. Since the Prime Minister is sending draft laws to the Assembly, he's signing it, and I have a copy for the Prime Minister and for him to hand over, so that we can eliminate the failures of these species.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22195	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22196	Dear Mr. Pavicevic, thank you for your instructions. You're absolutely right. Nothing that is grammatical and spellingly incorrect can come to parliament. You're absolutely right, and despite the instructions you've given, thank you for that, but even though there are no more mistakes like this, I'll make sure that there are no more mistakes. I will do my utmost to make sure that such things do not come to parliament. Of course, I'm very sorry if that is why, because of the spelling and grammatical mistakes you've made now, you don't vote for these amendments and the additions to the laws that you initially said were excellent and you agree with them, but you're right here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22197	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appreciate Mr Pavicevic's progress. I hope that we have forever left behind that ton of amendment "expunge itself" and that we have finally begun to talk about concrete things. I support this evolution in the parliamentary work of Mr Pavicevic. I think it is good and quality, as is the good and quality relationship of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is also Mrs. Mihajlovic, vice-president of the government, said that all the things that come and that are of quality why we should not discuss and why not vote about them, with one small remark. I expected Mr Pavicevic, as an indigenous Kotorin, to talk more about maritime navigation than about Serbian. But we got about Serbian and less about sea navigation. To leave this debate on maritime navigation for someone who has sailed and fished at sea, as we have seen from some means of public information, I believe that Mr Pavicevic will talk about it in amendments and less about Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22199	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman, Mr. Arsic, the Honorable Mrs. Mihajlovic and the Honored Guests, here are two things to say in a sort of response, Mr. Arsic, to the MP, Mr. Zoran Babic. The first thing concerns the amendment, which reads as "expunged". As I have said here, we have not prepared any such amendment for these draft laws, but just to remind the MPs, the amendments "wipe" are not about the evolution of the work of the MPs, but about the evolution of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, gentlemen. As long as the Government of the Republic of Serbia here in an urgent procedure, without respecting the importance and place of the National Assembly in our constitutional system, is sending laws in an inappropriate manner, one of the possible answers of a national MP or more of us will be the amendment to "expect" Mr. Arsic. Second thing, gentlemen, I've prepared myself, here's just to tell Mr. Babic, Mr. Arsic, or Mr. Babic to hear it, especially I've prepared myself for a debate on the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation. Of these 16 amendments, as we have submitted to these three draft laws, gentlemen, 15 amendments concern this very bill. I expect that both Mr Babic and the other SNS gentlemen and other political parties here, including Minister Mihajlovic, will participate very actively in the debate and that, respected Mr Arsic, Mrs Mihajlovic will accept all 16 amendments which will ensure that we vote for all three draft laws, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22201	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22202	I just thought it was a fruit of praise, but Mr. Pavicevic didn't accept it. I'm sorry about that. I will remind you, as you did, Mr Arsic did in the morning part of the session, that none of these laws were in an emergency procedure, because the emergency procedure was removed, and that all the laws had entered the procedure at the end of 2014. On the other hand, the SNS is thoroughly preparing for both laws in principle and in particular. Here, this is an analysis of each of the amendments Mr. Pavicevic submitted. That's what my colleagues and colleagues in the SNS Group do, and I'm very grateful for that. I don't know how much we're going to be able to debate and participate in the debate, because we're going to need a linguist more, if we're going to debate, in Article 4 of Section 1 after the word "ship," he adds. It's one of those 16 amendments so brutal, so essential, so that it takes a really great knowledge of maritime traffic. I admit, I don't have much experience about it, but we're going to debate about this comma or the comma as much as it takes on Thursday, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22203	Thank you. Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vice-President of the National Assembly and Chairman today, Mr. Arsic, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic and respected guests from the ministry. I look forward to always arguing in our National Assembly. The worst, gentlemen, is when there is no dialogue and some chairman, and it is not you, Mr Arsic, who occasionally try not to have any dialogue or debate. On Thursday, therefore, I expect a heated debate on our 16 amendments as well. The second thing I have to say here, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Babic, is that these bill proposals, gentlemen of honor, arrived in December, we had enough time to read it, to analyze it, to interpret it, so our reaction, gentlemen, was not, is deleted. And for that, here is Mrs. Mihajlovic, for example, can earn a commendation from opposition MPs here. But I remind you, when there is such a government approach again, keep in mind that our possible reaction is an amendment – it is deleted, to every member of the bill. Why gentlemen? Well, because we here adopt rules that apply to all citizens of our Republic, who should be familiar with these rules, their content, not hidden to pass through the Assembly as a shortcut here, gentlemen. And, third, the last thing, Mr. Arsic, in this replica, Mr. Babic. It's a tangled-up interpunication sign as far as I can tell. The signs of interpretation also concern language, gentlemen, and whether some linguists will be needed, so in the National Assembly we must have linguists here, gentlemen. Especially to keep an eye on the language, if you have one reckless view of it in the Government, the opposition will also correct the laws in such a way, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22205	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic, and this concludes the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22206	I agree on the praise of the competent ministry and Mrs. Mihajlovic. It is commendable also to a collective body called the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I agree on it, but we will again come up with something to talk about on Thursday. Here's the amendment to Article 13. The government predicted no employment on a ship under the age of 18, etc... Mr Pavicevic has submitted the amendment, with the right, each of the MPs can submit an amendment, it is legal and legitimate, and it is good, which he says – on board is not allowed to employ persons under 18 years of age, etc... Now, we're going to talk about a law about sailing, about the port, about whether it's better, whether it's not allowed on board, or whether it's not allowed to be hired on board. Where are we going to put that ship? At the beginning of a sentence or in the middle, as predicted by the legislator? Again, I say, someone who is indigenous to Kotor, let's talk about the masts, the oars, the aggregates, the engines, the ports, the docks, the malls, everything about this law, and where we're going to do it on the boat at the beginning of the sentence or after three, four words in the sentence itself, I think it's less important but I support Mrs. Mihajlovic's position that everything that is good and what's a good solution, even if it's a comma or a comma, should be discussed and accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22207	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22208	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable minister, cannot share the illusion that some MPs have on the discussion of my previous regular speaker, that he will vote for these laws, because he is famous for not voting for his proposals either. I've left every illusion, a man doesn't vote for his amendments or his proposals, let alone vote for a particular proposal in the government. If he did, it would be a surprise for me. What I've noticed is that there are two standards in my previous speaker, a respected professor, a lecturer at one university, which is commending him for noticing all the grammatical mistakes. But a little bit of a grammatical error, when I found out from a report by the Protector of individual citizens, he said it was nothing. So I found four, five pages of 32 mistakes, as I remember which were so cardinal that when I read them here it caused a storm of laughter, however, he said that whoever was doing it was wrong. Then I agreed to it, but I said it was too much to have 30 and some mistakes on four pages. Today, the one who denied that grammatical errors affect even the report by the Protectors of individual citizens, today and how there is a problem with grammatical errors, with the right, which appeared as an explanation in certain parts of the law. I also do not share Mr Babic's illusion that we will get something good from Kotor, there are mostly these yachts of our rich, our tycoons, so I do not believe that they will deliver our tycoons, rather than I believe that they have delivered us against Velibor Jomic, but these sinners will not be delivered, and one priest has become a national threat to Montenegro. Those with white flags, those of us who got rich at a time when everyone was poor, they didn't disturb anyone's safety or their country, and God forbid we take appropriate measures to sanction what they did in the previous period when they robbed the people to the bare skin, several times so that the yachts might acquire them. What I'm saying is that this law or some regulation will have to take a good look at the issue of registering domestic ships. They are increasingly registered in Croatia, Moldova, Romania, Bulgaria and Ukraine. Out of five countries, three European countries, they pour fuel, pay taxes, and our country loses taxes, loses taxes, loses incomes, loses profit taxes. I believe the time has come for us to settle these conditions of registration. So the ships that were ours, and suddenly because of certain taxes, they became foreign, in a certain way the disturbances and the ambience of the economy because when they become foreign ships they can only arrive at international ports, and at the home port and at home ports they can't agree, and by doing so, the businesses are carrying extra costs because they have to transport goods to the international port because our ships have become foreign and sailing under a foreign flag. I will cite Mitrovica as an example, the meadow it pours must carry, since Srem has no international port, must carry it to Belgrade, because all ships that were domestically foreign and no longer agree to the home port and the home port. I believe that it is the sublegal acts to be completed and that in a certain way ships registered under a foreign flag, and domestically, the same ones as neighbouring countries are broadcast, that the same kind of reliefs are broadcast by our laws or sublaws. So that those ships that were domestically become domestic again, they do not sail under a foreign flag because it harms both the economy and the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Also, my grudge is at a limit of 500 thousand tonnes for the port, because I'm afraid in the present conditions our economy can't respect that, that there will be a regrouping. So the economy will also by internal transport, the increased costs will have to bring it to, in my opinion, the two ports that will be able to meet that 500 thousand tonnes limit annually. In this state, I'm afraid our economy can't deliver so much goods and bring so much raw materials. When the iron works in Smederev, maybe the situation changes for the better. I think we should help the economy as much as we can. Also, I want sublegals to be a little better equipped to get ships off the border crossing. So, that the businessman can do the goods that come from abroad, I mean, first of all, mineral fertilisers, at the moment Srem doesn't have any international ports, all the ships that used to be domestic, that were at the home port and domestic ports were bringing in mineral fertilizer, that certain warehouses, equipment, etc. Now the same thing should be done in Belgrade and Novi Sad, and they are making, given the quantities of mineral fertilisers imported, thus creating a certain crowd. Thus, this unloading of the extra-border crossings should be made as easy as possible. It used to be the port captains. This time the agency will do it. I think we need to make that kind of sublegal act so it's very easy to make it happen, too, in the interest of our economy. As for the vessel registration, I would like the government, not just the Ministry, to be difficult, but that this - the sea is sailing a small yacht, the state gave them to tycoons, that the vessels that these tycoons made the money they made in the grabbing, when workers and peasants lost everything they had. While some of them were losing everything, they earned everything. During the night, they made millions, became multimillionaires, and mostly they did business with the state and based on business with certain politicians at the time, so the state earned enormous money in privatisation, better words of grabbing, acquired huge material wealth while all the other poor people were suddenly rich and should be forced to at least their yachts that they acquired on the coat of arms of the poor to register under our flag and here pay taxes because they registered them to various Virgin, Sessel and White World islands. They took capital and yachts out mostly. Of course, they docked there somewhere in Montenegro, in another perhaps even more exclusive resort during the summer, in winter they winter a little in Montenegro, and the rest are usually in the Maldives and on some such exotic islands and destinations. I would like them to force themselves to respect the state of Serbia in a certain way because they got everything from the state of Serbia, and they almost gave it back nothing but the crisis. I don't believe they can get Serbia out of the crisis, because they're rich in the Serbian crisis and they've brought Serbia into the misery and poverty that this government is about to treat. We need to find a way to get them to register these yachts they've earned in the way they've earned, at least partially return to the state what, with full right, I can say, what they've taken. They became multimillionaires. They've brought out almost all the money, a certain amount of money, and they're only bringing in so much that they're walking around to buy some estranged singer, and we're becoming hostages and these newly-compromised rich people, who are doing nothing to help this country, to help this people. They are literally experienced while millions of people are barely surviving and I think that in a certain way and on matters of these registered vessels, it is necessary to put an end to them and in any way force them to even if those vessels are registered to the state to warn them in a certain way that the state is still stronger regardless of how many rights they have and how they have acquired them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22209	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask whether the Presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Veselinović, you have 25 seconds. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Impossible. There's a river record kept. ) It's not handheld records, it's electronic. The authorized has 25 seconds. You can request a record later from the service to see what it's all about, but according to this record, you only have 25 seconds. Do you want 25 seconds? All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22210	Yeah, first I'm gonna ask you to check the records because we've been tracking the time screen and I've been about 12 minutes, for example. I left seven minutes to finish. In these 15 seconds, I'm saying that the minister hasn't answered a single question, that she said a lie to a guy that Boris Tadic, during his rule, had been suspended from building the Žeželjev Bridge. He's been out of power for three years...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-10-0.u22211	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. (Janko Vesenović, from the site: You must check the time. I'll check and I'll give you an explanation right away. If you remember, while you were talking, I... (Janko Vesenović, from the scene: You should not have interrupted me. )......................................................................................................... and asked you to re-apply. The moment I interrupted you, you were about four and a half minutes away. When you again asked for the word time you see starts again from the first second and in the sum of those two times you have 19 minutes and 35 seconds. (Janko Veselinović, from the scene: So you shouldn't have interrupted me. ) Mr Veselinović, you should have read the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly more carefully – the chairman is obliged to warn the MP or have the right and to interrupt it unless the topic of the agenda is adhered to. I think we learned that after all these years. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I am concluding a joint principled search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 1 to 3 of the agenda. We continue our work on Thursday, February 12th with a start at 09.00 hours.
