ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30268	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll use the five minutes that belong to me. Dear Mr Vujovic, this Assembly is indeed a maze, right, such as the Labyrinth and the Government of Serbia, so you were reportedly lost in that maze. It's not me who lost you in the congregation, it's what this government is lost and what's in the maze. Mr Vujovicu, you have submitted to the National Assembly a bill amending the Law on Excises, which you are asking to introduce an excise on electricity, which no one has done so far since the day the electricity arrived in Serbia. That is why the Turnover Movement requires that you withdraw this law and give up imposing electricity on citizens of Serbia. This amendment and all other amendments I have submitted are to this end, in order to understand that Serbia is neither Germany nor France, when you compare the price of electricity in Germany, France and other developed EU countries, that you must compare both salaries and pensions, Mr Vujovic, which you have reduced and the number of social cases that are never higher in Serbia, which cannot pay this price for electricity, Mr Vujovic. I asked you last time, answer me now, about this amendment. What is the charge of electricity in Serbia? Who doesn't pay for electricity? Why isn't he paying? Why will some citizens, honest pensioners and social cases pay electricity for those who don't pay it, by introducing excise, impose, electricity and for the next month all citizens will receive bigger bills that they won't be able to pay? Mr Vujović, here's a question – did you make sure that when you decided to increase electricity prices, or to introduce excise duties, that the MP who will vote for this increase in electricity, the MEP from Nis, owes for the electricity of 1.009.554 dinars? Eighteen times his electricity's been shut down. He is, by the way, the president of the Panteleus municipality. Have you considered that such MPs should support such a measure and will not be a problem for them to raise their hand for the collection of electricity - because they do not pay for it, but there will be a problem for citizens who need to get out of their pockets, out of their salaries, the strained salaries that you have reduced, and pensions pay for electricity. Have you asked yourself, Mr Vujovic, how the funds in Serbia's Elektroprivred are being spent? Did you ever wonder how 49 people were admitted to the EPS, specifically in Novi Sad two months ago, just to do party work? Did you, Mr. Vujovic, ask yourself what the director of Kolubara was doing? Have you ever wondered how much he spends in a restaurant, on bar bills, imposing on anyone who pays electricity their own cost of bar bills? Mr. Grčić, Milorad Grcic, who otherwise graduated from high school and a teacher's course and spent the night at the University of Sremska Kamenica, worked in a bakery, and is now director of the Kolubara. Have you wondered how much he spends on catering services? It costs the state, citizens of Serbia a month, which at least one dinar will have to pay electricity for Mr. Greek, at least one dinar. Two million and 55 dinars per month spend on catering services, Mr Vujovicu. Did you ever wonder when you were making a decision about it? Have you wondered how the E.P.S. funds are spent and what calculations are going into that price, Mr. Vujovic? You're digging through papers and bags, you'll probably find an answer to those questions. So, did you first analyse whether Serbian citizens can pay for it, how much they pay for it, and then say it's a compliance with EU standards? Since you did not comply with the standards in the field of environmental science, in the area of justice, in the protection of the rule of law, etc., you started by harmonising the standard of loading on the back of Serbian citizens another new imposition. Not only the current, in this member we're asking to withdraw as well as the entire law, you're also imposing on electronic cigarettes that are replaced by more harmful cigarettes, classic cigarettes. Is this how you go on hand, say, "Brittish American Tobacco" and Mr. Biden, who is co-owner of the company? Do you never come here to the Assembly without passing a law that is going to harm Serbian citizens, and in favour of the powerful tycoons, in favour of your foreign partners who are likely to help you maintain this government and probably financially help you, I don't mean you personally, but the party that has delegated you to this place. Mr. Vujovicu, withdraw this law, save the citizens of Serbia from another imposition, from imposing on electricity that should also be used for saving, roasting eggs, is, and for cooking milk to children and parents will indeed now have to take care of it and will include a heater in a room where children sleep because they cannot pay for heating, for example, in Nis because the heat has raised the price of heating, as it did at the end in all Serbian cities. Pull the law, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30269	Thank you. Thank you, you've spent your time together. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30270	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected. But, Madam Chairman, we have here today an interesting replacement of roles, I'd say. Namely, the proposer of this amendment, an independent MP or an independent MP, although he likes to represent himself differently, has submitted an amendment that reads - in the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, Article 2 is deleted. And I'm reading a series of amendments today in the same text that reads -- it's deleted. It seems that any MP who becomes self-sufficient starts writing the amendments "is deleted" and has taken over the role of some other independent MPs, but it is not what is important. What is important is that this amendment directly violates the meaning of the bill's proposal and the concept of this bill, a bill that continues an active programme of consolidation of the state budget, i.e. fiscal consolidation and recovery of public finances. I think we should reject this amendment and invite everyone not to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30271	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, following the presentation of the amendment's motions, I noticed that under his name is the "PRECRET Movement". Mr Babic called it "the sunflower movement", but the point is in the next. It is not a political party, and I do not know who allowed it, and you should see whether it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the amendment promoter should sign the name of the Citizens' Association, given that it is not a political party, that the Association of Citizens is founded by three persons. This way I direct the protest because the amendment's proposing is signed by the citizens' association. If we all sign off on the associations we belong to, then I don't know what this National Assembly's gonna look like. It is not a problem to call on the election list, it is not a problem to call a political party that has not participated in the elections. But if we sign by the name of an association of citizens who cannot be political bearers, nor political lists, or election lists in the elections, then we will go far. But the amendment promoter has proposed an amendment to the following you, it's a professor doctor, he has a complaint about some colleges, I have a complaint about his students. I don't know what he'll properly teach his students if he proposes such clever amendments. I don't know if he came up with this himself or if someone helped him, given the objections that he's concerned about students who study at some colleges, I can also be concerned about the fate of the students he teaches, since he proposes such quality amendments. I agree with the amendment that the Assembly is not a maze. So, the government's obligation to the ministry and to wait a few minutes is not a reason to object. He can be brought out by someone who is regularly in the National Assembly session, but certainly not by a professor, a doctor who suggests his own yes, and then he's gone in the day of voting. Well, at the last session, I took the opportunity to vote for the proposal of a respected doctor and voted for his proposal, but he was gone. His proposals won zero votes, and this time I will support his proposal to adopt this amendment. Of course, I suggest he refuses, but provided he lists in 30 seconds all the political organizations he's been in for the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30273	Thank you. Just to remove your dilemma. The MP brought a copy of the Register of Political Parties. So we only respect our obligation to treat everyone and sign them, and in the case of this MP. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30274	For a short while, it is not about any mazes, it is about a meeting of the government of the Republic of Serbia, a delegation led by Aleksandar Vukic, the prime minister and delegation of the People's Republic of China led by Deputy Prime Minister Djang Gaoli. The meeting was between ten and eleven, and at 11.05, I went out and got to the Assembly as soon as possible. I'm sorry I'm late. It was the only terms. The Deputy Prime Minister of China went straight to the airport from that meeting. As for your comment, the justification of this law, I think we talked about it yesterday, very detailedly and there is no need for the amendment to a member who says "wipes" to repeat the arguments. The arguments were announced yesterday and I can repeat them if necessary, but we can do so in the final word, I don't think there is any need for me to repeat all these same arguments of justification for the introduction of excise duty in accordance with the EU directive. That's a hundred years ago. There was no directive, neither was the EU. The current wasn't a limited factor, today it is. The natural resources produced by electricity consumption are a limited factor and excise on limited natural resources, non-renewable natural resources is a very justified measure everywhere in the world, especially that Serbia is 30% below the top of the next country in the regions at the price of electricity. Serbia spends more electricity per unit of social product than any comparable country. Serbia spends more electricity on heating than any other comparable country when there are other more ecologically similar and economical sources available for heating. Therefore, this excise policy is fully consistent with EU directives, with the rational use of natural resources and with Serbia's long-term strategy to have efficient energy, to provide energy for industry, for development, for growth, for new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30275	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30276	Thank you. In addition to the amendment submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic and in defence of the rights of MPs to regulations that consider inappropriate, poor, short-term and far-reaching consequences for Serbian citizens, the message that each amendment should be deleted, that the law in general should be deleted, when it is left without members or withdrawn from the procedure. It's simple and legitimate and legal based on the Rules of Procedure. I understand the political folklore of which the right is disputed, as I understand the political folklore which contests the right of the MP to sign whatever he wants, and in the defense of the National Assembly President, who is very careful about order, not only is it according to the Rules of Procedure, but there would not be a parliamentary group in this assembly, Forward Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic, if it were not for the Business, so we are disqualifying people here, and we are not talking about the subject. Just a brief remark to the minister, since I regret to say that it is often misrepresented and extracted from the context of the sentence, electricity is not a natural resource. Please be careful, take care of it because it's not. There are non-renewable natural resources that serve to produce energy, but electricity as such is not a natural resource so that you will not be misrepresented and put out of context again, and support the amendment because you cannot support an 8.5% excise on the price of electricity in Serbia with any argument. There are no arguments for the European Union, because there are countries that have excise duty, there are countries that have 0% excise duty and there are countries that have no excise duty. You can't even support the recovery of electricity, because this is the amount of money going directly into the budget. You can't even support fiscal consolidation. You can support the obligations that someone else has for us, such as the IMF, as a proposal, and when it comes to the price of electricity and that's all we can talk about. It is our job to observe the sustainability of home budgets, to give more 7.5% from home budgets to the Republic of Serbia's budget without knowing how it will be spent. It is our obligation to look closely at every member of the law and to have an attitude that will reduce the adverse consequences, because an increase in electricity exciseity will produce only harmful consequences, according to Serbia's electricity system, both by the standard of citizens and by what we put as a title ahead and as an argument, which is a fiscal consolidation with which it has no connection, just as much as electricity is not a natural resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30277	Thank you. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30278	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, first of all, I think you should have attended the Finance Committee, where we discussed these amendments and I think the topic is very important, so you should have been present. I have proposed an amendment that deletes the position of the 7th member, deletes the part about electricity excise, for the simple reason that it is not in line with the directive you are referring to. If we already want to apply some European standards and directives, then we should start, first of all, from those things that concern citizens and their improvements, and this is a direct blow to their standards and I think that the cheap political points that the government collects at a reduced deficit will cost Serbia's citizens dearly. And that's quite clear. To explain how you're trying, which is what we've heard in your arguments, in which we couldn't react, to get a replica, because we can't always do it from the opposition, I've brought in an average bill for the Serbian citizen's electricity. If the EU directive were to apply a minimum excise duty on a single euro megawatt of electricity, they would be given 386 kilowatt hours for consumption, they would receive a price of 46 dinars, excise duties. That's what the directive says and what we have the objection to, too. What the government will charge Serbian citizens for the same account is almost five times higher, which is 176.94 dinars. It is truly unheard of that you are applying the European directive, even more strictly towards the citizens of Serbia, than the European Commission legislator felt it should. What else in Serbia is the excise charge from next week? It shall be charged on the accounting force. So it's an engaged force, in this case 11 kilowatts per 472 dinars you account for for the consumer, the state will directly involve over 50 dinars in the budget. What's a excise on calculated force? Whose strength, why is this charged to Serbian citizens and why is it not per kilowatt? The second thing, even more pointless, will be for citizens to pay taxes on public supplier spending, in this case 120 dinars, nearly 10 dinars will pay each month for public supplier spending. Why should citizens pay excise on the cost of a public supplier? I ask you, fellow MPs, because Serbian citizens need to hear this and this is an amazing thing. One more thing. Compensation for privileged producers of the Energy Act. They're already getting compensation from citizens, and now the citizens are going to pay for that fee they're paying, to pay the excise. So, citizens pay them compensation and pay the excise fee imposed by the Government of Serbia in order to fill their budget as efficiently as possible, and to make it more efficient to forge fiscal results, because it is quite clear what the situation in Serbia is, that the recession is also in the past and that we are the only country in the region that has a recession for two years in a row, we are the only state in this situation. The economy has the lowest wages, the biggest cost increase in this part of Europe, the massive departure of our citizens abroad, because of existence, and it's ministers, something you can't deny. The vast resources available to the EPS should be used for the development of this country. I agree with you here, but you need to deal with the management that you've set up. The management behaves in a arrogant, irresponsible manner, saves only on citizens and I think that far more rational use should be made of these resources, so that it can be used for economic development and that it can contribute far more, if we have the management chosen in public competition, open, international, where we would not have party soldiers in key positions that can only produce losses, falsely demonstrated by EPS's successes through business books, and you know how they have shown themselves, how the cost of depreciation has been reduced, so that this firm will show profits and thus later pay funds into the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I think you should stop this, if you really want to stabilize the country, because it's not the way to take citizens away. It is a way for the state to save on itself, in its party parts, to clean them out of that sector where they shouldn't be and then we can finance in one real way those costs that this country has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30279	The word has a minister, Dr Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30280	I thank you, MPs, Mrs. Comic, and I accept the correction. So, a short sentence and thank you very much. It is said that over 60% of the electricity produced in Serbia is produced on the basis of non-renewable sources. That's what I had in mind, and thank you for your correction. I also want to ask you to speak precisely. Therefore, the excise goes into the budget and the budget knows what is spent on each dinar, every appraisal and every thing we measure daily where the funds are spent is measured very precisely to the last dinar. Therefore, I want the citizens to know that daily reports published monthly on the Ministry of Finance's website, which will be given quarterlyly, or annually, to all MPs, are very closely monitored by each dinar. I can't agree with you not knowing what you're spending it on. It's being spent on everything. Moreover, I pointed out in the debate the tax is a structural source of income that helps Serbia balance structural, long-term structural obligations that are primarily in three elements, four elements, which are salaries, pensions, material costs and interest, helping Serbia balance structural long-term obligations that are difficult to change and structural long-term income sources. Unfortunately, the standards of international organisations and all creditors are such that current revenues, an increase in payments where we have 13.8 billion better results this year than the plan is not considered a permanent source of income until it is confirmed for at least 12 months, and then subject to verification. In contrast, the excise tax represents a permanent source of income since the methods of its cut and charges are such as to give 99.9 security of charge. Secondly, the burden on citizens of Serbia is at the level of the average consumer according to the data provided by the EPS. Serbia's electricity is a public enterprise, we have access to government data just like you, 2,640 dinars is the average bill. The increase in excise duties and the increase in electricity will be 325 dinars. Three hundred twenty-five dinars is the amount of the increase, and that will be a burden for the citizens of Serbia, of which about two-thirds will be excise, and one-third will be an increase in electricity price at the moment. The excise is now determined at this level, but it will later be subject to review and correction, and we can also bring it down to zero the moment we come out of the fiscal constraints that we have today. So, Europe's countries have an instrument of excise duty in place, and only with current decisions change the rate to be applied. I must say, I disagree with the finding that we're falsifying fiscal results. On the contrary, we pay all our dues, even more than usual in previous years. So, we don't have growth, we have a reduction in the liabilities that have reached the due date and therefore the result that we have with today's surplus in June of one billion, 0.8 billion after, where the deficit was 25 billion...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30281	Thank you, Minister. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30282	... We are today at 24.2 billion, which is in percentages below one percent of the social product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30283	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30284	Madam President, Mr Vujovicu, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SNS are against this amendment for one simple reason. Inhonesty. Dishonesty, the proposed amendment. Dishonesty in an attempt to present itself as protectors of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because I would like to see this argument so passionately presented now when asking for consent for the amendment, that the same argument was used on 1 March 2008 when the electricity price was increased by 8.4%, so I would like the same argument to be used, and on 1 March 2010, when the electricity price in Serbia was raised by 10%, so I would like to see the same argument used on 1 April 2011 when the electricity price was raised by 15.1%. Will the price be collected through excises or by an increase in electricity prices? It is important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what and what account they will receive. I don't want us to hide behind any directives, or fight with those whose place we're looking for, we're not looking for a place in their society, but this measure is necessary, this measure anyone would accept and everyone would do if it were in the place of this Government of the Republic of Serbia. We will not vote for this amendment because of the lack of honesty because when they increased electricity by 7.6 and 8.4%, then 10%, then 15.1% they had to say that they were increasing the price of electricity because they needed more money to finance the EPS's media campaign. Have you seen an EPS commercial anywhere in the last year? Is there a need for a media campaign and an EPS commercial? It is not and is not there because we do not want to treat the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this way. Was there an EPS commercial on all TVs until 2012? Yes, it was. Who had the benefit? Media houses. Who controlled those media houses? Well, the applicants of the amendment. What does the ENP have to do with the financing of the concert, and they financed a concert with 353 million dinars, so when you increased the electricity from 7.6 to 15.1% to tell the citizens – here we increase the electricity to finance concerts, to finance sports clubs, to feed marketing campaigns and agencies that are owned by us. Why weren't you being honest then? Then why didn't you, then why didn't you rebel against an increase in electricity prices? Why weren't you being honest back then? Why, then, did you not take care of how many parents will and will have to cook an egg or make milk? It is easy to say, so you know, they behave arrogantly. If haughtiness is that within three years of managing Kolubar, a five-billion-dollar savings have been made, I accept that it is haughtiness. What about the fact that for the past three years with 374 cars, official cars available for 24 hours, favorite individuals in Kolubara, that number of official cars is now reduced to 80? Is haughtiness on us, on Mr. Greek, on SNS, which has reduced the number of official cars to 80 or on you so concerned about the interests of citizens, who have used official cars 24 hours a day and 372 cars? Is haughtiness that this year, despite all the problems and difficulties that brought the floods last year, this year will be a record for the produced coal of 29 million tonnes in Kolubara, for me these are the results. Is it a haughtiness that the order of expropriation has been put in place or should I remind you of all those affairs about some Kenneth, some houses that have been prepaid and what's all been done? Whose money was it made with? With money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that you were just now concerned about, and then when you had the opportunity to take care of that money, you were giving some Kenneth, you were giving for official cars, you were increasing the price of poisoning, you were giving for sports clubs, for marketing campaigns, marketing agencies in your possession, you were giving for the concerts of 353 million dinars, for one concert, and now all of a sudden these "suncorets" said -- well, that's good; and now they turned around, and now they said it doesn't suit them, that they don't fit one household relationship. I just don't know when my colleague says -- she's not gonna improve public finances, she's not gonna improve EPS business, she's not gonna modernise the EPS, and where's that money gonna go, or maybe it's an auto-projection, so she's gonna go for some concerts like you did or some marketing agencies? No, he won't. It will go for the recovery of public finances that you are sick, will go for the modernisation of the EPS and for a better, fairer and more domestic business. That's why the SNS is against this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30285	The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my distinguished colleague Zoran Babic said, the SNS will not support these amendments for any number of reasons. Besides being dishonest, besides being hypocritical, I want to point out a few facts. First, Mrs. Gojkovic, Mr. Janko Veselinovic did not register a political party, but registered...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30287	I apologize, did you ask for you in the context of the amendment? We're checking it out now. We're checking the solutions, but not just the solution, we're checking whether or not it's signed, in that sense. If this is the key issue of this session, let me just tell you that we're checking whether the right to sign on television shows also have political parties or associations, etc., since the solution was handed over to the General Secretariat and, therefore, the General Secretariat decided to go ahead. I don't think that's the key problem today, but we'll check and we'll do everything in accordance with the regulations. Let's move on to the amendment discussion, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30288	So Mr. Janko Veselinović received a solution from the Agency for Business Registers on 10 June 2015, which reads: a single registration application for the establishment of legal entities and other entities and registrations is adopted...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30289	Ambassador, I invite you to discuss the amendment as well as the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30290	I'll connect, I'll talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30291	Well, you can't move on to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30292	Well, wait, Mrs. Gojkovic, Janko Veselinovic talked about some tycoons that finance SNS, some waiters who run public enterprises, eggs, milk, etc...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30293	Well, please, no one's stopping you from saying that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30294	You didn't interrupt him. Let me answer the lies that have been made to the SNS. So, Mr. Janko Veselinović registered in the register of the Movement for PREKRET Association, form of organisation, association, short name Turn, headquarters and address of Mutapova 48, Vračar, Serbia, area of achievement of objectives, activists in all social areas of importance for the lives of citizens in Serbia etc. So it's not a political party, it's a citizens' association. There is a big difference between the political party and the association of citizens, and this is a solution from 10 June 2015 of the Agency for Business Registers, which each of you can receive via the Internet presentation of this Agency. As for the waiters running some public enterprises, Mr. Vesenovic, you were a member of the DS... (Janko Veselinović, from the post: This is not my amendment. You come from Novi Sad, you know Mrs. Gojkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30295	I am not paying attention to what MP Janko Veselinović is throwing at me, but I must tell you. It's all clear to me. Talk to me, don't replicate. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Here, I am talking to you. There's an institute of replicas. It is not forbidden to ask for a replica and the amendment is from MP Ivan Jovanovic. No sighing, no rolling eyes and all, I'm absolutely right. So, what applies to the other MPs, I kindly ask that it apply to you as well. So this is Ivan Jovanovic's amendment, not Janko Veselinovic's, and I can't play it now just because you're mine, so let me keep quiet. I can't do that. Please return to the amendment by Ivan Jovanovic or wait for the next amendment by Dr Janko Veselinović. I think that's what any chairman would do, no matter what his name is.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30296	Okay, here I come to you. Mrs. Gojkovic, you're coming from Novi Sad. Here was an argument as to why the amendment should be accepted, to say how some SNS code of interest is a waiter. If I'm not mistaken, the chairman of the Regional Committee for Vojvodina's Executive Board is Dusan Elezovic, who is also a waiter, and has ended up, if I am not mistaken, or should finish, the Faculty of Tourism Management and Restaurants. I'm surprised the gentlemen didn't mind being run by a waiter in the DS, and now they don't care who's supposed to be the waiter running the Coluber. They're double standards and they're double arches. But something that's much more important. First, what the Serbian government is doing is a measure that makes no one happy and no one happy. Is this measure necessary? Yes, it is. This measure will contribute to the consolidation of public finances. I really don't understand the MPs of the former regime who claim this will not contribute to the consolidation of public finances. Of course he will. What is also important to highlight, the excise, as a public income, as a concept in public finances, has been around for many years in both the Republic of Serbia and many other European and world states. So the excise is not some new income. Excise already exists in our financial system. Excise is a public income that fills the budget. The excises don't fill the pockets of political officials, they don't fill the pockets of political parties. It's full of budgets. The budget, of course, is in addition to the state's funding, in addition to one part being financed by local self-government units, and possibly also by citizens, including those who are socially at risk. This money doesn't go into another country's budget. They're going into our country's budget, they're going into the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't know why anyone would have anything against it. The consolidation of public finances is important because it creates preconditions for us, and that is what Prime Minister Vukic has repeatedly said, that we are thinking about, by the end of the year, that if these positive economic and financial trends continue, we can think about increasing wages and pensions. Whether or not it will come to this depends on whether we will be persistent in the economic reforms that this government has begun. The former regime's gentlemen forgot that the government led by Aleksandar Vukic is the first government in modern history to literally force public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia to pay in the Republic of Serbia's budget. No one knew where the money from public enterprises was going while this state ran the DS. Now practice is completely different. All proceeds, all profits go to the budget. It also contributes to the consolidation of public finances. Those who lecture us today on how we're going to get sick of the citizens, how they care about their social status, well, my colleague Babic said nicely – why didn't they worry about it when they increased the price of electricity from 2000 to 2012 who knows how many times? They increased her. Did anyone know where that money was going? He didn't know. Was that money used to fund DS and other parties that were in power? It's been used. There's talk here about some party personnel. Come on, tell me from the former regime that the director of the public firm you elected in some public competition and that the director showed the results in running the public enterprise that he is in charge of? Me, as far as I know, not a single one. The Serbian government has taken heavy measures, but unlike other governments in the environment, we have taken these measures ourselves, and this is not about being driven by someone, not by the IMF, not by the EU, that we are now increasing, or imposing a excise on electricity. We ourselves want to save the country from the difficult economic situation it was in when it was run by the DS. Two days ago, counterpart Babic presented the fact that former regime MPs seem to have forgotten. In the summer of 2012, the Serbian government inherited a budget from which expenditure could be serviced over the next 15 days. After those 15 days, we were bankrupt. Greece today must take heavy economic measures because they literally set up an ultimatum for it. They made the Greeks save. No one's making us. We ourselves are taking action to avoid the situation Greece is in today. That's what this is about. There's talk here that Serbia is neither Italy nor France nor Spain. Well, it's not. Unfortunately not. You left us in 2012 and an inheritance state such as Italy, Spain, Norway or another well-organised state. You left us a coup from the state, an unsettled public finances, robbery, crime, corruption, a budget hole that was such that he threatened bankruptcy in 15 days. The Serbian government soon managed to solve all these problems. Of course, there are other problems in Serbia that need to be solved, but don't bring Serbia into this situation to teach us how to take care of citizens' interests. After all, you have an example of the AP Vojvodina. Take care there a little bit about the interests of the citizens. Why don't you worry about citizens' interests when you take money from the Capital Investment Fund? Why don't you worry about citizens' interests when you take money from the Vojvodina Development Fund? Why don't you worry about the interests of the citizens when you take money from the regional secretariats for both science and technological development and from the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture, etc. You're talking about the interests of citizens who need to pay for something. Well, the people of Vojvodina are paying Vojvodina Forests, Vojvodina Waters, various fees, among other things, for cleaning the channel network in Vojvodina. In 2014, we had in certain parts of the Duke's flood, because “Vojvodina Voda” a public company run by DS personnel did not do their job well. The citizens paid their taxes, but the canals weren't cleaned. Instead of clean channels, you had dumps. Who's responsible for that? Those who run the Duke for 15 years. So this is all about this amendment and the previous amendments. The mera's heavy. The measure is painful. It is difficult to measure and reduce one part of pensions, it is difficult to measure and reduce one part of public sector wages. There will be a difficult measure and possible layoff of a part of the employees who work in the state administration. These are difficult measures, but these are medical measures. These are the measures that are the only way to heal the Serbian economy. This is about some cheap political points. If we wanted to score cheap political points, we could have run the same policy as the former regime – we're in charge, we don't touch anything, we leave everything the way it is, and in two years what God gives us. But we took care of the interests of future generations. We want to leave this country to someone to inherit, but we want to leave it in a better condition than we did. That's what this is about. There will be more heavy measures and there will be more painful measures. Now I understand the former regime, he is now moved to present himself as the sole representative of the citizens' interest, but all the elections since 2014, so you're being denied here. Citizens understand the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens understand the difficult measures we're taking. We have to take over, because there is no other way to recover public finances and heal the Serbian economy. If there were another way, of course the Serbian government would have resorted to that other way, but there is no other way. This way proved to be good, yields results. Each of us would like the results to be both greater and better, but unfortunately, the state was left out to that extent that more than this could objectively be done. This kind of thing takes courage. It is much easier to raise the price of electricity at the government's telephone session than to come to the National Assembly, before the MPs, bring the finance minister and show to the citizens of Serbia that you are allegedly concerned about citizens' interests. It's a lot easier to do that at a phone session, but we don't. Everything we do publicly, we do transparently. What we also do, the obligations we make, the promises we make -- we keep. We are fulfilling because we want to be a serious state, a state of respect, a state that other countries and international organisations will respect. This measure was taken precisely because of it. It's heavy, it's painful, but at the same time no one can say that this government is working intensively to attract domestic and foreign investors. New facilities, new factories and the Serbian government are opening up everywhere in Serbia. So it's not true that the government run by Aleksandar Vukic, and that's what our political opponents, who became communists and left-wings, are supposed to be some kind of neoliberal government. That's not true. The Neoliberal Government does not interfere with the economy. The government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to solve the accumulated economic problems, on the one hand, we are taking difficult fiscal measures, but on the other hand, we are running an active economic policy, we are helping in every way possible from attracting domestic and foreign investors, and they see Serbia's citizens. You can see that in every community. Almost every day there's a new factory, some new plant, some new plant, somebody gets a job. We're trying to get out of the corporate crisis that's been in the restructuring phase for years and nobody's worried about. It's a tough policy. It's a policy to have courage. The Serbian government has the courage and we support such a policy and we are not ashamed of such policies and we will defend it, defend it from those who have practically brought us into a situation so that we do not have to take such difficult measures. Would we have to increase, that is, to introduce electricity excise, to reduce one part of the salary, to reduce one part of the pension, if it hadn't been for the Vojvodina Development Bank, Agrobank, if there hadn't been a variety of robbery privatisations, if there hadn't been thousands of things that hadn't happened in any other European state? The former regime has entered political history because it has succeeded in destroying its own state. In addition to robbery privatisations, we had a form of privatisation that is considered the worst possible in political theory...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30297	Ambassador, you've come all the way out of the picture.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30298	... We had a private state...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30299	Totally. (Dear Sutanovac, from town: Long ago.) ) Not long ago, but now he's opened a new topic that's not about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30300	Because we had a private state...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30301	Ambassador, let's not speak out loud. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30302	... We now want to have a public state, a state that will work in the interest of all citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30303	Thank you. There's no need to speak out loud. My only intention is to run a session, which is what you would do. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Don't yell at the replica. I know you're entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30304	Thank you, Your Honor. I thank you for the Turnover Movement commercial. Fifty-two members have been electronically involved since the debate on the site turned point org and there will be more and more. Just to remind you, gentlemen, you were signed with Forward Serbia – Tomislav Nikolic and you had no registered association, no party, so much about it. I believe you rightly consider me a serious political opponent, but I am not your political enemy. Don't call me ugly names. Don't insult me. I ask the president to take care of it, to make sure that the opposition here has the right to say that it is against the collection of electricity and that it will harm the citizens and that more and more will be forced to leave Serbia and that some people are using Elektroprivrede funds without purpose and Mr Martinovic could talk about it for a very long time. I'd like him to repeat part of the story until recently, when he was a member of the SRS, when he was talking about all the SNS tycoons. No one can say that better than Mr. Martinovic. He knows who the tycoons are in Novi Sad, Srem, Belgrade. I can quote here, Mr. Martinovic, your words when it comes to SNS tycoons. If you don't do it, I can do it, but thank you anyway for taking care of me and my political movement that will lead to you not being in power in the Republic of Serbia and that the prices of electricity will be lower and the wages higher...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30305	Thank you, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30306	... what you once promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30307	Ambassador, thank you for the replica. Stefanovic, did you seek injury? You gave up. Okay. Thank you. Who else asked for a replica? Ivan Jovanovic, so we'll be back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30308	Replica. I'm saying we shouldn't go back in time, and if we're already talking about dishonesty, as our colleague said, let's go back to being dishonest to the executive and repeat to all my colleagues that we are not in parliament deciding to collect electricity. This is perfectly clear legally regulated and it is known that a decision is being made on a higher electricity price. It's never been decided by the MPs, and that's one more thing to know. For the first time now, parliament has decided to collect electricity, but through excise duty and nothing to do with parliament has to do with the collection of electricity that will go beyond this 4.5% excise. What's dishonesty? The dishonesty is when the current minister of infrastructure says in 2011 – electricity will be cheaper by 20% in the pre-election campaign, and then Minister Antic 2014 says - we are not thinking about imposing excise duties, and then Antic, too, another dishonesty - the introduction of electricity excises would not be good. So what you're deciding today is bad, that's what Mr. Antic says. Mrs. Mihajlović – first social cards and new electricity and gas prices. That's dishonesty. It's one political manipulation used by individuals and it's not good. In order not to convert, as sometimes this parliament turns, and as often as the government of three-year-old SNS moves away, into a chronicler's society, I will move on to concrete data. When it comes to EPS, the reduced value of property, which I was talking about by the ministers, is 18 billion dinars. It is illegal and it was found by the state auditor, not in accordance with the procedure in 2013. It's a pity for the EPS, especially now that it's almost obvious to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30309	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30310	I'm using the MP's time group. I'll continue as authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30311	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30312	By the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30313	You can't when you're looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30314	I'm authorized.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30315	Take the Rules of Procedure until others have their word, and you will see that you are in great error. It doesn't matter – authorized or not authorized. When you're looking for a replica, you have two minutes and that's it, plus a minus a few seconds, because no one's gonna stop for two minutes. I guess they're all replicas. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place: Okay, I'll sign up again. Zoran Babic, just tell me who you're replicating. (Zoran Babic, from the post: The name SNS is mentioned both by colleagues Jovanovic and by counterpart Veselinovic. ) Martinovic pressed the key, but he said – on Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30316	Let me explain. Col. Martinovic answered the personal mention, and I think he has the right to reply, and I answered the reference to the SNS. What I would like to say is that in no minute nor did my colleague Martinovic nor I say that the National Assembly voted for an increase in the price of electricity, but you voted and chose a government that increased the price of electricity, which had no courage like this government and as Mr Vujovic, to come to parliament and ask for an increase, i.e. the introduction of excise duty and an increase in electricity price with a clear plan of where to go and what to do. You can call me a chronicler, but I didn't get the answer – why did you increase the electricity price by 7.6%, by 8.4%, by 10% and 1 April 2011 when neither the public debt was cut nor increased, nor did there be any modernisation of the EPS? Where did that money go? Where did that increase go? You did not answer – why did you give the EPS 353 million dinars for one concert? Why did 300 to 500 million dinars per year from the EPS go to media campaigns if it is known that these media outlets through which the media campaigns were owned by DS leaders? Why don't you explain why you've been giving and what's the interest and why the citizens will have a more quality power distribution or whatever 80 million just one football club? What I would like to say is, what was an dishonest and false representation of something that my colleague Martinović proved and showed nicely, the SNS, the parliamentary club was created in September 2008, the founding assembly was on 21 October 2008, and the signatures that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia said wanted to change...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30317	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30318	... The changes that occurred after four years have been given where they should and under the Law on Political Parties for a month after the founding.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30319	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30320	Therefore, let us not speak anything that is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30321	The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Replication to personal mention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30322	Thank you, Madam President. I don't know why anyone is considered offended if a solution to the Agency for Economic Registers is read. There is a big difference between the political party and the citizens' association. Mr. Janko Veselinovic registered the Association of Citizens called the "PRECRET Movement". The date of establishment is 2.6.5., the date of adoption of the statutes of 2.6.5, is Janko Veselinović. The area of achieving the goals is Activism in all social areas of importance for the lives of citizens in Serbia, whatever that means, etc. You don't have a political party. Perhaps someday you will have, perhaps this political party will be the strongest in Europe and the world. I don't doubt it, but you don't have it right now. As for the quote, feel free to quote everything I said. That would be politically correct, but quote everything I said about the DS policy that you belonged to, I don't even know what year. I am an MP from 2007 and quote everything I said about DS from 2007 to today. State along the way and all the fines I received because I was an opponent of the regime that you supported. I am fined with some in euros of 3,500 euros. They kicked me out of the O.R., took away my word, introduced a rule that certain parts of the Rules of Procedure couldn't be hurt, that after two seconds a reminder would be made, etc. Such measures are not applied today when it comes to MPs of the former regime...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30323	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30324	Therefore, the situation in matters of the rights of MPs is much better than when you were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30325	Thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list after the amendment. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30326	Dear colleagues, I have no problem admitting that electricity, as far as the price is concerned, is high in Serbia, that this adoption of the excise law will affect even more that the situation of our inhabitants is even harder, and that Serbian citizens are not dry drenov, neither are we Marko Kraljić, and I find it hard to believe that someone will be able to drain more water from dry Drenina for a long time and that is why we need to think carefully about every step. I look forward to it if the time comes mentioned earlier by a colleague who said – when he comes to power and his political party that he will come to the cost of electricity. I don't believe that given the situation Serbia is in, but I look forward to the fact that there are people who think that the time will come soon. How do you get out of this trouble? Well, it's very hard. Many moves that come after this law will be both painful and difficult, as the prime minister said, but I ask the Prime Minister that in the first place he and the Minister of Economy bear in mind that they are expected to create an environment in which Serbian citizens will be able to do much easier business and in which they will be able to live much easier. If we want to achieve a comparative advantage over others, we're going to have to take a little more account and education because that's a prerequisite for all of this that we're trying to do. It is no problem to see citizens react to such proposals and what their lives are like, talk to your neighbours, talk to your travels with Serbian citizens, you will see that they are not satisfied and difficult. But you don't have to wait, and I won't wait to go to the opposition, so I'm criticizing some suggestions, but today I say - yes, it's hard. I'm not saying that I could get out tomorrow, say - so I said this law is burdening the citizens of Serbia, but we don't have to wait for us to come to the opposition, to open our eyes and then start to be wise. Try from the moment you entered parliament to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, because that is what the oath we have sworn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30327	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30328	Madam President, thank you. So this amendment, like the others we have submitted, has a clear aim of trying to stop the government in what the previous speaker was saying, which is an additional burden on Serbian citizens through an increase in electricity prices, in this case specifically through excise duties. We don't see, and we haven't received any assurances, where exactly that money will go, except, of course, it will go into the budget, as well as other things that went into the budget, so we don't have any proof of where they ended up in the end, and that it was in favour of the citizens of Serbia, the development of the EPS, the development of the market economy and everything you said in the previous days. I don't see any concreteisation of this, except that the budget deficit will be reduced and that in general our budget will be in a better situation than it was a year ago, in terms of accounting numbers and what you bring Serbian citizens to, and these are numbers. For you, the citizens of Serbia are numbers. You don't care now how they pay for this. They can't pay, all prices are up in Serbia, wages are low, nothing. We have an army of the unemployed world. Why didn't you make social maps before this? Why didn't you do something, so we can say -- now that 70,000 Serbian citizens are protected from this measure, let's talk about excise duties. It's not done, it's simple and it's simple. What makes me more convinced that we're right? You say, when you defend this signature, it's a complete absurd, you say -- you chose, we chose a government that increased the price of electricity, I don't know, 10 times. Well, you're doing the same thing, worse. What kind of defense is that? I really don't understand. I understand you have something to say, but at least think about what you're saying. So you didn't choose a government that increased the price of electricity? Well, here's proof that you chose. Citizens of Serbia, you will have an increase of 12.4% of the price of electricity on your miserable salaries, on your miserable pensions, on everything these poor students of European neoliberals have done to you. Why did you neoliberate? Well, you're not you, you're stagers to yourself, you're using all the state benefits for you and your friends, but the people are, you're applying these experiments to them. I would accept that you are right, now to stand up and say – here, we will not do this, we will reform the EPS, we will throw out party people, we will stop endemic corruption, we will stop the fact that the Kolubare director has over two million dinars for consumption in restaurants, here, stop it, stop the fact and that Eletkrovodina has sponsored football clubs and concerts. Well, why aren't you talking about it? You won't, it doesn't suit you, but you're talking about it, you're saying, which is the highlight of cynicism -- we're doing what the Greeks are pushing, and nobody's pushing us, and we're just trying to do it. Guys, don't brag about that. Victims are citizens. We'd like what I'm saying or not, it's facts. They're being pressured, they're fighting for their citizens, and I hope they succeed in that fight. Where are you fighting? You are doing without pressure what someone said you should do, and those who have come up with this philosophy and ideology are disowning it today, only not the Serbian Government. That's what this is about. I'm trying to point out that this measure, with a number of other things you're doing, will not lead to better citizens of Serbia, will lead to budget filling, to an accounting balance that is positive for the government, but, I repeat, the accounting budget balance can be plus, it can be phenomenal, but what it's worth when nobody pays anything in Serbia, when nothing is spent on citizens, on infrastructure, on development. Do you know what the price of agricultural products is today? There's nothing. Everyone will move out of Serbia, people. You are increasing the price of electricity and justifying European moves. How, just tell them what it will bring to the citizens of Serbia, tell them why they will pay such a price? I'll be the first to congratulate you if there's a gram of argument of truth, believe me, I just don't see it yet, except what the minister was saying, which I accept, which is a budget financial explanation, but I'm asking you life, explain to me what it will bring to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30329	The word has been issued by the MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30330	I'll use the MP's time. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, for information from those who support Mr Siriz, has proposed to his government and MPs to accept the reform plan and agreements with the EU. So that's how you behave when you have a country that's been brought to a collapse. Then you have to agree to all the conditions that someone sets for you. The Serbian Progressive Party since it led this government and before that, when it had the first Deputy Prime Minister, did not want to let us get into such a situation at all. What are we doing specifically for the citizens? Only the restructuring of the EPS and the removal of six directors and the placing of seven executive directors of a large system called the EPS is a big deal. On the other hand, from July 1st, for all those who don't know, there will be only one jury account of the EPS. There will be no giro-account of thermal power plants, there will be no giro-account of "daughters of companies", there will be no giro-accounts of service companies that are within the EPS, there will be only EPS that will be defined in three sectors – production, distribution and EPS supply. Therefore, this kind of restructuring will contribute to a great deal, so that we, above all, bring the EPS to one level where they will really do business in a sustainable way. This means that this type of gathering will no longer be a practice, as it has been practice since 2000, until today. My colleague Babic wanted to talk exclusively about the period since 2008, but if we talk about the period and earlier, then you can see that these power increases have been discounted in an unpredictable way. They were ad hoc precisely because a lot of the giro accounts were within the EPS, which was spent a lot without control, which many public procurements were made that not even energy ministers, nor the prime ministers knew what certain funds were being spent on, that the remonts were also made ad hoc. This is why this is the only way that you can essentially define the restructuring of the EPS, but on the other hand, and financially bring into line a whole sector called energy. Don't talk about the past, because it hurts somewhere, and we call it the chroniclers of Serbia, but it should be said that long before the time, ten years before it was necessary, a cover was opened in the "Colubary" and natural resources were exploited to fill the budget in a certain way, from which they were spent, in an inadequate way, financial means through various aspects of public procurement of the EPS. We don't want to talk about him becoming a large number of vehicles, a large number of employees, a large number of directors, 600 executives, so they didn't come overnight. Someone ran state politics that way. Now this policy simply came to an end, led the state to the conclusion that in the moment of 2012, the budget had only 15 days until all the payments were made and then it simply had to be brought to a certain policy of consolidation of public finances, so that they would not come into a situation like Greece, to negotiate under force and to force our people to do something called a 50% reduction, 40% layoff. That one responsible policy cannot allow. For the past two years, we have shown that we have been responsible for our citizens, and the responsibility that citizens will be able to endure the increase in these excise duties is being looked at in that six million euros from the budget will be given to support social categories, these are social maps. A census of between 120 and 250 kilowatts per year will be produced with practically some kind of free consumption of electricity. It's a kind of support for socially endangered categories. It is not true, therefore, that this government does not think about Serbian citizens and those who cannot pay their bills. On the other hand, Serbian citizens, but it is not only somewhere in the way of life in Serbia, but also in the region, did not have the habit of settling their accounts until 2012. There is a certain way that this government has, indeed, given the opportunity to refinance the debts that citizens had towards the EPS, to give these debts to wars and thus to show that you can operate in a sustainable way when it comes to the energy system at all. What the previous governments have not done, they have done nothing in the field of the development of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. It was also started after 2012. This Parliament adopted new laws relating to energy efficiency at the time, and that is what we were really thinking about. Therefore, responsibility stands on us, on those who now make these decisions. These decisions are difficult, but above all they are good for all of us, to heal the economy, and to show in what way the budget will operate in the future, and that means that as much as you earn, you can spend. It's the only possible way the state can function. Mr. Minister, I thank you at all for coming here and trying to talk and show those who cannot understand why fiscal consolidation measures are being adopted and why it is important for all of us. Many simply do not have a big problem, because they do not care whether they will be able to pay these bills, since in recent years they have really had a huge savings on the concept of sitting on certain political functions. So it's clear to all of us here why many of the proposings here are trying to attack in an extremely malicious way something that they essentially want to cover up their past, in which they've done a lot of business in an extremely irresponsible way and in the spending of budget funds for unintended purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30331	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30332	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this opposition that was at one point complete, and now sorted into about 10 parties, cannot possibly accept what they were doing from the 1980s until 2012. So these are now the consequences of their unhappiness. So destroying the entire economy, unemployment, it all happened in their time. It can't be solved with a magic wand in five years. What crashed for 12 years can't be fixed in four years. Let's just shut these rebels up over there. So, I can't accept their argument that the power collection is some kind of unreal imposing. He's only real because they made him real. So we don't have an inflow in the budget, and we want reforms suggested by Aleksandar Vukic, prime minister of Serbia, who suggested there would be severe cuts. This was accepted by our citizens who voted in favour of these reforms and we cannot accept in any way the pressure of this opposition, which is divided into several parties, that they are now teaching us that we are not doing something right. So this is forced, something that has to be done. The budget is empty, there are no regular inflows, and it has to be found from somewhere. These funds will return in some way to either social policy or where it is very important, so that the excise duty imposed on the electricity will not fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30333	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30334	The Honorable Chairman, I think he's a injured member of 107. I deeply respect you, but I would ask you to just turn your attention to Mr. Sutanovac not to turn his back on the MPs as they speak of very important issues for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, if it is up to the representatives of the DS, to go to the lobby, and to apologize, for this is indeed an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly and MPs in the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30335	Thank you, MP. I will not comment because MPs usually talk while others discuss, turn, rise, drink, food, etc. I really don't think that's my role. If you want, we'll vote, but I don't really see my guilt about it. The word has a minister, Vujovic. You have two minutes to discuss. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30336	Thank you very much. For the sake of Serbian citizens, I need to correct some of the things that MP Stefanovic said. It may be true that your intention is to stop the government of Serbia, but not in hurting citizens, but in the rational plan of an economic turn of reforms that we have been delaying for decades. Therefore, rhetoric cannot change the essence here. The bottom line is that we want to implement difficult reforms, and that's why we're not doing something suicidal, but we know that difficult reforms require both cost and time to be implemented. That's why we have a three-year program that supported the Fund. That is why we have a programme that has been supported in all parts by the Fund and all measuring institutions around the world, including countries that have similar problems or countries that are far better than us. The results we have already achieved based on current austerity measures are concrete results. They're material, although what we want to do requires them to be sustainable on a longer term. We want everything to be transparent and sustainable. Here you have debated this House until the last detail of the budget and we are not changing any of the elements of that budget. The day before yesterday, we answered the question - why don't we have a rebalancing? Because all our expenses are lower. Because we saved a total of 75 billion approximately, of which more than 40 billion on the side, to be exact, income, almost 14 billion higher taxes, almost 29 billion higher non-tax revenues, on the side of expenditure 34 billion less expenditure, and of which, I agree, 8.5 billion less spending on investment projects is due to various factors, but not total, only central countries, i.e. only in the Republic budget. The Republic budget is the jurisdiction of this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30337	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30338	Last thing I want to say, let me just have one minute, that's...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30339	One minute I can't, but just finish the sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30340	Okay, I can hang up, but it's very important. Before this increase, Serbia pays the price of electricity 5.96 euros. The first next cheapest country in Europe is Bosnia with 8.05, Macedonia – 8.23, Bulgaria – 8.95, Montenegro – 9.88. If citizens leave Serbia, they will leave it because five times so far we have not implemented reforms, not because the price of electricity is high. There is no cheaper country in Europe at the cost of electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30341	Just to explain, I'm not interrupting because I don't want to hear your answer, but I have to follow the rules we're working on in the Rules of Procedure, in order to somehow have a beginning and a end. That's all I'm trying to deal with, you're not the only one. (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica! ) Only in a row and you will all receive time by amendment. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Replica, I was mentioned. No, article 104 says if you are offended by the name and name. He didn't insult you with anything. You have expressed your opinion and your political position, and the minister has responded as someone who sets up government policy in this regard. So, if there was anything pervasive, I'd give you a word on this basis. I'll let you spend your time on the amendment, but first Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30342	The chairman, I don't think it's right for the double arches to be applied, simply, Mr. Babic got the word, and he didn't pesoratively mention it earlier, and now Stefanovic can't. But it doesn't matter, I'll go on the subject because Mr. Secretary hasn't answered any of my questions. I said the results of fiscal policy are falsified. Here's an EPS example. You have non-taxable incomes that are one-off, which will not happen again, that's what the alleged results are for. The 2013 EPS, which the auditor confirmed, illegally reduced the value of assets by 18 billion dinars and it is clear that privatisation is being prepared, the EPS which has unguaranteed loans, so the state does not guarantee them, from over a billion euros, such an EPS is paying dividends to the Republic of Serbia's budget and you are making a better situation, as regards the income of the non-taxes. That's absolutely true. I want to ask you this thing - why the citizens will pay excises on the accounting force, the engaged power of "Electroprivred Serbia". Why will citizens pay the cost of a public supplier, i.e. excise on the cost of a public supplier? What do citizens have to do with their expenses? Furthermore, why will citizens pay excise fees for privileged producers? Answer me that, Mr. Minister, I'm not asking for anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30343	He cannot answer you when you ask something that is not mentioned in this amendment. (John Jovanovic, from the place: How is it not? I won't let him answer anything because we started talking on the free topic. (John Jovanovic, from the place: No. That's the essence of the amendment. I appreciate you yelling at me, but I'm kind of resilient today. (Ivan Jovanovic, from the place: I am not shouting, that is the question. You're all aware of the Rules of Procedure. The minister can't, unfortunately, stay unconscious enough to suit you. After the amendment, Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30344	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who studied the economy knows that by the end of the 1990s, there was an object called the political economy. The parliament of the Republic of Serbia certainly is the place where politics is conducted, but essentially, if you no longer have the political economy, then you have it in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. You have on the one hand, politics, and on the other hand you have an economy. It's always interesting to understand that the political economy isn't just about socialism. In other countries in Europe that are capitalist-oriented, in fact, you had this policy that she thought could go beyond the economy. Somehow, Greece is a good example. How does Greece work? In fact, not political-economic systems work, but people in these systems. In Greece, it was not a problem when 240 billion euros were spent by the Greek people to live better, which did not produce, but is a struggle for the Greek people today, the moment these loans are due to return. It is not a problem when working doctors receive 5,000 euros in the 80th, but it is a problem today when doctors in Greece receive 1,700 euros as they return the 5,000 euros. It's a matter of different ways of thinking, of political commitment, of the idea that everything spent in the economy should be paid. Today, in a public debate, we hear essentially different things. This is about two levels of story - the first, the macroeconomic parameters, which are not the subject of this analysis, and the fiscal parameters. The excise decision is first and foremost being imposed because it is a clear problem in the fiscal functioning of the Serbian state at the moment and no matter how resolution and how far it is solved, it cannot be resolved quickly and efficiently. These measures and these excise duties are primarily due to the tendency to make these fiscal deficits as good as possible in future times. When we talk about EPS, then we should definitely say that it's a system that, even though we're going to listen differently, collects 95.75% of the income. So, a company that can now read, at the level of companies in Elektrovodini, charges 97.43%, in the PD “Centre” Kragujevac – 96.36% of the charge, “ElectroSerbija” Kraljevo – 95.96%, “Southeast” Nis – 95.38%, “ED Belgrade” – 94.01%. It's a fee for 2015. So this speaks of changes that occur not only in the fiscal system in the functioning of public enterprises, but also in public enterprises, in the way of thinking because it is true that in 2012, the rate of charge was about 80%. Changes are inevitable in all spheres of life, but they are primarily the result of the situation we inherited, not only in public enterprises, but also in the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30345	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30346	Citizens and citizens of Serbia know that the government in the image of minister Vujovic's representative said that electricity excise is being introduced for several reasons. One reason is the consolidation of the budget, and another reason is because it is a harmonisation with EU regulations plus an IMF request. That's not true, not the first reason, not the second reason, not the second additional, not the second. This is a list of 28 EU countries. These are pink, these are countries where there's no electricity excise. In 18 states there is no electricity excise, and out of these 10 where there is, there is a zero excise, or just a record. Thus, it is false, or that some of the more eloquent messengers on the other hand would say lies. It is trying to convince the Serbian people and other Serbian citizens that this government is working on the good of that people and all citizens of Serbia. The International Monetary Fund has no proposal to raise the price of electricity, but is asking for the EPS to operate without State subsidies, without State aid, which, of course, is not working now, and is not working because it is making huge losses resulting from crime, corruption, party employment and all that has been going on for too long in this country, and has been intensified over the last three years. Over 15,000 people are surplus in the EPS, that's the category of people brought in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30347	Are you going to waste your time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30348	Yes, of course. That's what someone brought in in the last 10 years, not because it was the need of the EPS, but because it was the need of some political elite, under quotes. 600 executives have been replaced, but these others work in the same places, in the same offices, have the same secretaries, I don't know if they have the same drivers or if they've brought new ones, and that's pure demagogy. The theft of electricity is a constitutional category here. In 2012, three billion kilowatts of electricity were stolen. That's the difference between delivered and invoiced. It's not technical losses, it's non-technical losses. So it's not a loss in transportation, it's a clean theft. Then the government changed, I already said, and there's been a big change, it's not three billion a year anymore, it's 4.6 billion a year in 2013. Even your President Vukic and Serbian Prime Minister himself said that 18% of the electricity is being stolen. If we add that 15 to 20% of electricity is never charged, and it's invoiced, that means almost 40% of the current in this country is being dumped. If at least part of that were to be resolved, at least 30%, there would be no need to increase the price of electricity, of course, along with reducing the number of employees, there would be no need to increase any new investment in the EPS, but the EPS could live alone, without donations, which, of course, is not the case now. In addition to being told a lie that electricity excises are everywhere in the EU, electricity is said to be the cheapest in all of Europe. That is true, but we should be proud of it, not to be punished for it by citizens, of course, those who pay for electricity, of course, those who are not using someone with power and someone from the EPS went directly to Gerdap or some other thermal power plant without passing the current through the electric system, as the colloquial is said for those who steal electricity. We've got public procurement. I've already said that, which is the dark fairy of the highest level. It's something that's absolutely inexplicable. Explosive replacements. Why are they changing? When do they change? What are they buying? Why do you buy them? Why do they break down? Why are hundreds of thousands of counters and electrics that were bought a few years ago for remote measurement never included in remote measurement, etc.? We have, wherever we turn, a big problem. The second reason is, if not EPS, the second reason for the price increase is that, we heard first that electricity is a natural resource, then we heard that 60% of electricity is produced from non-renewable natural resources and that this is the reason for the imposition of excise duty. Water is a natural resource. Are you preparing to introduce an excise on the water as well? The excises of this other to which it is paid, other than petroleum derivatives, are nothing natural resources, no coffee, no alcohol, no tobacco. Such comparisons, that manipulation, that matchmaking, I can expect from many in the Serbian government and even more in the congregation majority, but I cannot expect from the minister present here. He witnessed everything that's been going on in this country since the '90s. He was also a witness to these electricity gatherings in 2001, 2001, 2003, reforms, and now he's silent when he listens to lies about what's been going on. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Well, what is this. ) This is a conversation on the topic of electricity prices, i.e. the introduction of excise duty.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30349	Mr. Zivkovic, you must speak of your amendment. The MPs are rightly defiant.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30350	I'm talking about exactly why you don't need to impose a excise on electrical energy, and it's written in the amendment that I gave. The amendment given by Mr Pavicevic and I also requires the abolition of the excise duty on biofuels and on biodiversity. In response to why this is not accepted, excise duties are said to be introduced to prevent illegal oil derivatives, including biofuels. Where did you find such an explanation? If that's the reason, if there's no other way to prevent it from being delegated, and it can be prevented, then a 0% excise charge is introduced, it's just...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30351	Mr. Zivkovic, if you don't already respect the Rules of Procedure, then I must respect the time you have to address. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: What did I say? Mr. Zivkovic, please. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Ma, you're a bastard. Please, Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Martinovic, allow me, we have warned Mr. Zivkovic about the words he uses in the National Assembly's high home, but he says that again about his home education, but I also ask you, Mr. Martinovic, not to throw away what you have to say to Mr. Zivkovic, you can do it outside this room. Mr. Janko Vesenovic, I have to delete the list so I can give my word after applying for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30352	Dear Chairman of the National Assembly, I advertise Article 106, 107. Mr. Martinovic just told Mr. Zivkovic he's an asshole. You did not give him a warning, as did Mrs. Chairman Gojkovic, the other day she did not give a warning to Mr. Babic, when he told me I was a dog. What's this about, Mr. Chairman? Do you think these are normal... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30353	I will not allow Mr. Veselinovic to speak in this way in the National Assembly. I will have insight into the stenographic notes, so that what you have heard, and I have not heard, to see if it is said, to look and read whether it is said in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What you're insinuating, what you say is said, it just seems you heard it in this room. (Gordana Comić, from the place: No, it's not just him. And you, Mrs. Comic, have heard too. Here, I'll have insight into the stenographic notes to see if it's said in the great hall of the National Assembly. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30354	Just for a little while, for a preliminary question on how to calculate electricity. I don't have the exact information when this method of calculating electricity is introduced where a special fee is paid, a fixed fee for the accounting force. It's a de facto network that comes to every consumer. The EPS therefore maintains and charges this separately. So if you're not wasting electricity at all, you're going on vacation, he's charging you a fixed price. Then there's the fee, you're right, the cost of a public supplier, that's all the administrative costs they have to reflect the entire system that had 14 units, now they're going to have three and I expect it to shrink. Well, then there's a calculation of electricity per zone for a higher and lower tariff, unique, for one who doesn't have a double-tariff count, and that's how it's been for years. This price I quote, which I apply to our statistics, is the Eurostat, that's all that's been charged to share with the number of kilowatts that have been delivered and then get that average price. We're talking about that price of simplicity working. We can talk, so this price de facto is penalizing, here, that's how you calculate electricity. Each of you has it at home, you can take a look. So whoever spends a little electricity pays a higher price per kilowatt, but for those who have low incomes, there are special conditions of up to 20 kilowatts. They're people who don't heat up on electricity, but they spend it on basic household needs, radio, television, water heaters and so on. For everyone else, some guess, and some give a lower price. The price it quotes, 4.90 euros per kilowatt plus 1.06 cents, is the average price when all revenues are collected at the level of the entire system and divided by the total number of kilowatts charged. I agree with Mr. Zivkovic in a bunch of things, but there are some things we obviously disagree on. So we have an EPS reform programme that will put all the things you mention on the table and address the issue of the procurement of efficiency, system organisation and everything else. It is all an integral part of the programme that was adopted in early June and will be implemented with the help of the structural authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30355	I thank the Minister. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Zivkovic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: What Minister? Did he insult anyone? ) Mr Pavicevic, do you want to follow the amendment? Is there a real person who's not looking for a replica? (Marco Djurisic, from the place: I must not speak.) Please, since I've got a lot of reports. Mr. Marko Djurishic, don't throw it away. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Who are you? ) (Marko Djurisic, from the site: You read synopsiss. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: And you steal as much sin as possible. You're very funny, Mr. Djurishic. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: He was stealing while he could. I will wait for Mr Djurisic to allow us to continue the debate in the National Assembly. Please. I'm taking a three-minute break. I told Mr. Stefanovic three minutes because you and Mr. Djurisic were throwing each. Mrs. Komic, if you have something, you can approach the chairman, not throw it out of place. [[Gordana Comić, from the place: If you took a break you can't communicate, talk.]] Since Mrs. Comic doesn't understand something as vice president, Article 112. – if the President of the National Assembly or the chairman of the regular measures cannot maintain order at the sitting, the time shall be set until the order is established. Mr. Sutanovac, three minutes. Mrs. Komic, I'm asking you not to win, if you have anything to approach the chairman. [[Gordana Comić, from the place: Well, it is a break, do not warn me.]] [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Becic, I think that Mr Djurisic and Stefanovic reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It seems to me that you've seen it before, Mr. Becic, and it may be your turn to give Mr. Djurishic the word...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30358	Mr. Pavicevic, did you answer the agenda, to speak according to the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30359	Yes, I am, by amendment of my five minutes, three are notes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30360	Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic. You have the word to speak by amendment. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Does anyone else want a word? You've turned yourself off, Mr. Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will talk about an amendment to Article 2 proposed by Members of Parliament. Of course I suggest that this amendment be rejected for all those reasons that the Government has delivered to us in its opinion. However, from the interpretation of the amendment of the amendment of the amendment, we have heard some words such as: crime, inability to manage, party employment, excessive employment in public enterprises...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30362	Please, Mrs. Comic, Miss Jerkov, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30363	Chairman, may I proceed?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30364	Go on, Mr. Markovic, let me just let you do it and make it possible for you to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30365	The proposer of this amendment acts as if he had slept through 15 years, so he has now stopped at the National Assembly and is giving us lessons and sermons here, but all these problems that have been mentioned and many other problems, therefore, are directly the product of their authority and its authorities himself, while the prime minister, unfortunately, of all citizens, was at some point the prime minister, or the party on whose list the proposings of this amendment were elected. So both the destroyed economy and the ruined economy and the huge public debt and all the other problems and the desolation of every area and every segment in the Serbian economy, these are the consequences of their authorities and I therefore propose that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30366	Thank you. Mr. Bozovic, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30367	I thank Mr. Becic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, 107th dignity of the National Assembly. Before, Mr. Becic, you set a three-minute break that apparently lasted, and the transmission, all the time, what you did, I don't think it was in line with the dignity of the National Assembly, it is that you did not give Mr. Djurisic, Mr. Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I think that's why you violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30368	Mr Bozovicu, that is why a break is due to the fact that after the break, the debate continues on the agenda. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, thank you. The People's MP Marko Djurisic reported after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30369	I believe that you have injured Article 103 about when the MP has the right to orally point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is referred to in Section 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30370	When did I hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30371	If you could just let me say it. Article 112 ...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30372	I'm just asking you to tell me when I did an injury to the Rules of Procedure, do you have a break or after a break?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30373	After the break, I was looking for word for damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30374	And you got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30375	And Article 112 says to set a break until order is established. Don't talk about the fact that what happened before the break is erased and the conduct of the MPs or the chairman before the break...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30376	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. I don't think I've done any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Yes) Thank you. Mrs Gordana Komic answered the words. Here you go, Mrs. Comic. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30377	I'm talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30378	Here you go. I apologize, Mrs. Comic, since Mr. Pavicevic reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30379	Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you to share... Well, you're consulting the Deputy Secretary to help you, in a brief break, as you get the word, as you treat the MPs, and indeed, indeed, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure. [[off microphone]] I'm really asking you on behalf of all of us together. There must be a break, Mr. Becic, you interrupt the MPs needlessly, you ask me if I answer the word, you give me the word... .
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30380	On what basis do you now speak, Mrs. Comic? (Gordana Comić, from the post: Based on this... But you don't have a word, Mrs. Comic. (Gordana Comić, from the place:...) You're doing what you're doing. ) Mrs. Komic, I will be forced to give you a warning, because you speak and you have not received a word. You know very well, respect the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Komic. (Gordana Comić, from the place: you gave me your word. I'm giving you a warning, Mrs. Comic. (Gordana Comić, from the place: you gave me your word. ) Mrs. Comic, I gave you a warning. (Gordana Comić, from the place: you gave me your word. ) The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30381	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, honored guests from the Ministry, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečić, you directly violated the content of Article 158. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which defines itself when an independent MP, therefore, is a national MP who is not a member of any parliamentary group, can use five minutes of amendment time for the amendment debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30382	Up to five minutes, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30383	Up to five minutes. I have answered Mr. Becic to use my five minutes on the amendments that we have jointly filed by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I. You interrupted me after 30 seconds, Mr. Becic, I insist you allow me, based on my Rules of Procedure, to use my five-minute amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30384	Mr. Pavicevic, if you tell the truth, you'll get your five minutes. You know very well that you've turned off, that you've completed your address and that you've turned off the microphone and thus completed your address.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30385	Is that how it was, Mr. Pavicevic? No, no, no, Can I explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30386	Did you turn off your own microphone?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30387	'Cause it's been 30 seconds...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30388	After 30 seconds, did you turn off your own microphone?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30389	But I still have 4:30 seconds left, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30390	Well, you know you can only make one address in five minutes, Mr. Pavicevic. If you spoke for 30 seconds and turned off your microphone and finished talking, you have no right anymore, Mr. Pavicevic, but I will be tolerated and you will get your five minutes, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30391	But 30 seconds went procedural. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30392	But we still have to tell the truth in the National Assembly. Thank you. People's MP Marko Djurisic came forward for the word. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30393	So I believe that you have injured Article 27 of Position 2 which says that the President of the National Assembly, in this case you, as chairman, are taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. So, first you interrupt the MPs, me specifically, before the time is up to two minutes, how much we explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, even though I am only talking about the conduct of the chairman, as a member of the 103th defines how the Rules of Procedure is spoken and about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to interrupt me until I finish my presentation or until two minutes are up when you have the right to interrupt me. Of course, it would be nice to use that right to interrupt for two minutes and when MPs speak from your party, not to say 2.30 minutes, 2.40 seconds or as long as it takes them to complete their presentation. Secondly, you hurt the Rules of Procedure by warning Col. Komic, just because she was discussing on the off microphone without any explanation why you're shutting down someone's microphone. She didn't insult anyone, she didn't use any of the expressions that she used, uninterruptedly, during this session of colleagues from your parliamentary group. I'm not going to tell them now because I'm afraid I'm going to get a warning. Because it looks like, when we repeat those words we hear from the other side, we get warnings, and you act deaf. You're deaf and you're saying -- you're going to read the synopsis, the transcript, whatever. Read it in the break, you need to take a break, so you can read, if it is recorded what your fellow Members of the Parliament have said here and what insults they have sent to their fellow Members on the other side, and then come back here and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, say disciplinary measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30394	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. To be true again, Mrs. Comic received her word, but before that, Mr. Pavicevic appeared after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Comic then said she got word that she wanted to talk about the amendment. I asked Mrs. Comic to wait because Mr. Pavicevic has the right to harm the Rules of Procedure to speak before Mrs. Comic. She did not allow Mr. Pavicevic who received the word to speak, but kept saying no matter what she did not get the word, no matter what the microphone was not involved, she spoke all the time despite my warnings as chairman. At that point, I was unable to establish order in the National Assembly other than to warn Mrs. Komic. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Yes. I thank you. Mrs. Comic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30395	Thank you. You have injured article 27 and a member who refers to the order of giving words in the debate in particular during the session of the National Assembly. As chairman, you decide who gets the word. Once you've decided to give me your word, it's your decision and it's your failure to hold the presidency if you change your mind when you've already given your word to the MP. The fact that I got word to talk about the amendment to the debate in particular is your decision and I started that debate. You decide during my address to the National Assembly that you have made a mistake and that I should not be given the word to discuss details but some other MP. For your fault, give a warning to the People's Messenger. It's not the first or the last. I can only repeat my request, most sincerely, to consult the deputy secretary and that because of the National Assembly, not because of the MPs of the government or the opposition, we do not produce without any need for such an atmosphere at the session of the National Assembly. One word given to the People's Parliament may be taken away only in a prescribed manner by the President's decision. It cannot be taken away because the chairman of the proper oversight and violates the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which speak in what order, why the MPs receive the word. I think it is in the common interest that you take this into account in the course of the session because the matter of respect for the Rules of Procedure is our common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30396	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Again, it is true in the great Hall of the National Assembly, since we have a full list and a large number of elected MPs, we, as chairman, know very well because you are one of the chairmans of the National Assembly, we cannot know whether anyone has reported on one or another basis until we ask the MP. I was giving you my word asking on what basis you called. Mr. Pavicevic told me at that time that he appeared on the basis of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and then I had to give priority to Mr. Pavicevic. You know that very well, Mrs. Comic. You know very well, I'll have a re-examination of the stenographic notes, if I've asked you on what basis you're reporting. When you said you were talking about the agenda, I had to give priority to Mr Pavicevic, as I ask some other MPs also during today's debate on the basis of which they appear. I ask you to respect the collegiation and correctness of the National Assembly so much. Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Gordana Comić, from the post: Rules of Procedure. You have no option again, Mrs. Comic, because I couldn't do another breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Gordana Comić, from the place: I do, don't I? You could have. ) I thank Mrs. Comić. You can't get the word now, Mrs. Comic, unless you want to confirm what I said. Here, here, I'll give you the word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30397	Dear Vice President, there's a rule when someone gets the word when they're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that's as soon as the previous speaker finishes his discussion if he comes forward as the previous speaker speaks. And with your explanation, you confirmed that you made a mistake. I understand that. What I do not understand is the need and will to for no reason create an enemy atmosphere during the assembly session. You gave me your word. I could have been in a situation taken away just for a crime, not because of your mistake. If I were, as I tried to finish the debate in the details of the amendment, then you could give a word to a MP who is seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it clearly says in the Rules of Procedure, why does the MP get the word over the line when he reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You are not the chairman, neither you nor anyone, to ask why the apostle asks for a word, but to assign a word on the basis of the members of the Rules of Procedure which determine exactly why and when which MP may receive the word. I asked for a word without the raised Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and it was clear that I was looking for a word by amendment. You gave me the word, and it is your fault that you dared to turn off the microphone willingly and voluntarily to me, to accuse me of speaking willingly when the word was not given to me, and it is that you freely interpret that you did not see that it was the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Thank you, I'm not asking for a statement from the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30398	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Again, I must admit I didn't understand you. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that the Rules of Procedure have to be raised in order for someone to get a word in the Rules of Procedure? Where does that say? I am now asking, are there any MPs who seek word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and do not raise the Rules of Procedure or raise their hands, or do they turn around in some other way? As you know, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MPs can look for a word based on a few basics and a replica based on the violation of the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of the discussion. How do we, as chairman, when we have here on the charter of the registered five MPs that we know who wants to speak and on what basis? By waving something? You know very well, Mrs. Komic, that's not exactly what it says in the Rules of Procedure, but I do if you want to continue to contribute to the way you've been trying to create an atmosphere in the National Assembly for half an hour, you who have been saying all along that you want to be an atmosphere like the National Assembly, you're doing everything you can to make the atmosphere exactly as it has been in the last half hour, you and your MPs. I also, as chairman, fully support you on the fact that here the atmosphere should be an atmosphere similar to the National Assembly and citizens who want to hear how MPs discuss in the interests of them as citizens. I beg you in that spirit to take the next session and act all together. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. By amendment. Here, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30399	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Minister Vujovic, respected guests from the ministry, respected Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečić, are three notes I would like to make here and our guests from the ministry, as well as the MPs who will eventually decide on the proposal facing us today by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First, I must ask Minister Vujovic here to answer the questions asked by MP Zoran Zivkovic, and for our amendment to Article 2 of this bill. I remind you, gentlemen, that it is the responsibility of a minister when he comes to the meeting of the National Assembly to explain, to answer all questions, to all the dilemmas faced by the MPs during our debate. The second thing, gentlemen and honourable gentlemen of Parliament, above all, is that we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 because we do not agree that the Government's proposal is good, and here I will, on the basis of the results of the adoption of this proposal, show that this proposal is not a good, respected gentlemen. The government has proposed that excise duties also tax electricity for final consumption. The result of the application of what is a proposal for a decision, which follows the law, is that excise duties also tax electricity for households. The consequence, gentlemen, is that the electricity for the citizens of our Republic will be more expensive, honored gentlemen. The result is that we will have reduced personal consumption, therefore, of each individual citizen in our Republic, and that the government, since that money goes into the budget, will be able, respected gentlemen, to spend more. What does that mean that we have the ultimate consequence? As a result of the adoption of this proposal, the government sent us to the Assembly is a further poverty of the people, gentlemen. The government reacted to our amendment like this. They said – we do not accept, and then, in an explanation, Mr. Vujovic and his associates wrote, he said -- we cannot accept the amendment, because the government's definition of tax-expanding cases is to create conditions for increasing tax revenues, gentlemen. Therefore, conditions are being created to increase tax revenues. Then I wonder, Minister Vujovic, I ask you to answer that question, and where is that tax limit, gentlemen? Mr. Zivkovic, I think, asked you a very logical question – does this mean that if the government retains such a commitment, it is possible that by the end of the month and by the end of this year, or during the term of office of this government, a proposal to tax the air inhaled by excise duty, in order to increase tax revenues, Mr. Vujović? Well, is this the philosophy of this government, the poverty of the people, the increased spending of power, the increase of taxes on air, when you turn away the tap, I expect you to come to the Assembly to say -- let's tax that too? Why? To increase tax revenues. There's no logic, gentlemen, which I can understand. The third note, Mr Vujovicu and ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, reveals its orientation towards injustice and ineffectiveness with this proposal. Well, Zoran Zivkovic here said, referring to statistics, data, that we have 18% of the electricity that goes somewhere. Nobody pays for that. Someone's using it, and then the government comes here with a proposal that those who usually pay regularly, so they don't belong to this group of 18% who are put up there somewhere to spend, and not to pay, then the government proposes to pay more regularly, gentlemen. Well, that's unfair. It reminds me of the idea of cutting public sector wages and reducing pensions instead of registering party returns, everyone here admitted that they were from the Progressive Party that they were bringing people into the public sector, that these people were fired, so there was no need to cut salaries and pensions. The government has shown by this proposal that it cannot record the 18% and that we who regularly pay, therefore we must pay respected gentlemen. Well, how do I vote for it, gentlemen?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30400	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Minister Dusan Vujovic picked up the words. Here you go, Mr. Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30401	I'm allowing dissent, but we can't afford to make mistakes. So the increase in excise duty is going to be an increase on the side of income that has a structural character. I've already said it four times and I repeat it one more time. The structural increase in income allows us to correct the measures we took last fall, since we had no other choice on short notice. As for your claim that the increase in excise duties will allow the authorities to spend more, I must disappoint you. This is the side of income, the side of spending is the side of expenditure. You've approved a budget with very precisely defined expenditure elements. We can't spend a single penny out of it. Therefore, this Assembly should at least respect the budget it adopted itself. So the increase in the structural side of income doesn't give us the green light to spend any more. In fact, in five months this year, we spent 34.5 billion less than you approved with that budget. So it's completely the opposite of what you're saying. We've saved 2.5 billion extra on salaries and pensions, three billion on goods, two billion on interest, although exchange rates went in, 2.7 billion on welfare, 18.5 billion on transfers, because we've better picked up and sent transfers and unintendedly, because of the bad organisation, 8.5 billion we spent less on capital expenditure, a total of 34.5 billion. We make more revenue than 42 billion and spend less than 34 billion. It's completely incorrect what you're saying, what you're implying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30402	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. ) Mr Pavicevic, the minister has received a replica of your exposure. Do you think you have the right to a replica, too? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I think so. But, Mr Pavicevic, do you believe that anything the minister has caused a replica and given you the opportunity? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I can explain in two minutes. Here you are, Mr. Pavicevic, no matter what I consider to be not entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, Honored Minister Vujovic and the Honored Guests, here are three things to say in response to this speech by Mr. Vujovic, which was an intervention on my five minutes on the amendment to Article 2, which we together submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I. First of all, we, Mr. Vujovicu, have discussed here against your draft budget. It is true that the National Assembly adopted this bill and it is true that when the Assembly adopts something like a law, all of us, of course, have to respect it, no matter what we were against it. But I remind you that even then we argued, I mean very well against that proposal that you defended here in the National Assembly. The second thing, gentlemen, I told you, Mr Vujovic, that this citizens' proposal has less and that the government gets more, that personal consumption is necessarily reduced if a 1st August citizen is to pay for expensive electricity. Now, as one citizen of this country, Mr. Vujovic, I ask myself, is it possible that anyone from the government believes that someone else, including the Government, will be better equipped with this money taken by the government than the government will have? Wait, so I guess whatever my preferences are, Mr. Vujovic, I'll have better use for my money than you or Mr. Vujovic will.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30404	Please, Mr. Pavicevic, just a little quieter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30405	Oh, I'm angry now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30406	Please, just a little bit quieter, because if you don't notice, you have a raised tone in the National Assembly. I'm asking you to just be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30407	Well, here, let me conclude in one sentence. So, the poor government, which continuously impoverishes both citizens and the state, gentlemen. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30408	Time. The word has been issued by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30409	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here I am, and as a citizen of this country, I wonder how it is possible that this bill is criticised by the man who was the exhibitor and the chief advocate of the theft of electricity, who said - don't pay electricity to Slobodan Milosevic's regime and then burned electricity bills in a barrel in Nis, while he was mayor of Nis? Furthermore, I am a younger man than the applicant for the amendment, but I remember in 1996-1997, when local elections were held in Serbia, so, among other things, in my opinion of the Nis citizens' accident, Nis won, at least that's what the famous Gonzales Commission, the Coalition "Together", and in some other municipalities and cities in Serbia said. Now those who criticise the EU, who have become Eurosceptics overnight, Marxists, Leninists, Trockists, ask God what, in 1996, correct me if I am wrong, the EU has adopted a programme called "Energy for Democracy". In translation, what did that mean? The EU mazut could only go to those units of local self-government in which the coalition "Together", including Nis, was in power. Did you not at that time feel uncomfortable, uncomfortable, when in Nis you were able to warm up from the EU's mules, and in another municipality, where it was not in the hands of the coalition "Together", people could not warm themselves from that mule? Furthermore, you who criticized the government, the bill and who, Mr. Becic, were here to say that someone was using rude words. Here, I'll have a stenogram of Mr. Zivkovic's exposure in a few minutes. He said – there are matchmakers, liars, thieves, cheaters, etc. in the government. Two days ago, he said there was no gross domestic VAT, so then he told the Prime Minister that there was no gross domestic VAT, so Mr Vujovic told him there was, but he doesn't seem to be worth explaining anything. As for the applicant for the amendment, he has now become Eurosceptic from Eurofanatics. Now he shows pink tables where there is, where there is no etc. What is a fact, while the applicant of the amendment glared and clothed this country, the price increased by 36.9% on April 15, 2001, by 15% on June 1, 2002, by 50% on July 1st, 2003. As it was good at the time, it wasn't a hit on citizens' pockets, it wasn't a drag in the pocket, it was modern, it was democratic, it was European, it was great. Now that electricity consumption excise is in place to fill the budget of the Serbian state, not just any party, but the states of Serbia, our country, we don't have another country except this one, then it's suddenly a problem. I'm a larger amount of hypocrisy, a larger amount of ignorance, a larger amount of political acuity, I've never really seen or heard of it. It's impossible that you've been doing everything the opposite of what you're saying for years and then saying that you're the one who represents the interests of the citizens and the interests of the people. Who kept you from introducing social cards? Who has prevented you from restructureing the EPS since 2000? Who prevented you from getting in the way of crime and corruption in the EPS and in all other public enterprises. Who? Nobody. Not that nobody stood in your way, but you were the protagonists of this crime and that corruption. In your time, these huge losses are made, these huge debts, these huge gaps in the budget, etc., and now, as we pretend to be ignorant, so that this hole in the budget will be filled in, there will be a smaller budget deficit, but what will citizens have out of it? They won't have anything at the moment. In a year, in two years, he'll have a lot more. No one went after someone's hand to raise something that was torn to the ground in one day. This cannot go hand in hand to this government either, but within a year, in two years, the measures taken by the Serbian government will produce results. I now understand your political logic. You've been in Vojvodina for 15 years, 12 years in Serbia, doing what you wanted, doing everything wrong, ruining everything you've reached. The people drove you into opposition, you kind of crossed that five, six percent censorship, and now all of a sudden you know what to do, and in 12 years, you didn't do any of that. What didn't you do? Did anyone stop you? Did someone tell you not to do that? No, it didn't occur to you to do anything good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, except for yourself. That's what you've been doing, and some people are offended when you say it. That's what you do today in Vojvodina. This shows all the public competitions that are being called by any province institution, only in the local community where DS is in power, only in the municipality where DS is in power. That's the policy you run. As for the amendments, I would support the amendment that the applicant of the amendment was working at a time when he had power in this country what he is now saying. No, while he was in power as the mayor of Nis, accounts in barrels, he told citizens – don't pay for electricity, he got a mascutt from the EU for free. At the time, the EU didn't bother him. It was by European standards at the time, and now that excise duty is to be imposed to fill the Serbian state's budget, which is the property of all citizens, it is now a serious crime directed by Alexander Vukic and SNS. That's not true. As for those of you who chair the National Assembly sessions, I will give my personal opinion. As the former regime has the political right to attack the government, I have the political right to defend it and defend it with all the resources that the Rules of Procedure allows, but I will not allow anyone who was at a concert with the Legion, along with the Red Berets, who took pictures with Arkan to say that there are matchmakers, liars, frauds, etc. Show me a photo of Alexander Vukic in company with people like Milorad Ulemek Legion, Arkan, etc. I was showing it here, so they called me a liar, who knows what, a former radical, a war criminal, etc. So, Mr. Becic, feel free to hold a session as you think it should, let them attack the government, we will defend it, but we will remind them of all the bad things they did for the state of Serbia, so this government must take measures that no one is fond of and not popular. If we wanted to run a popular policy, a policy that would appeal to the citizens, we could keep them in error – it's a great situation, there's no problem, give us any more credit, not that we don't want to cut salaries, but rather raise salaries, not that there's no ban on public sector employment, we hire in the public sector, and in two years Serbia wouldn't be there. That's the essence of the whole story. We want Serbia to last, we want Serbia to be, we don't have another state. We want Serbia to exist even when we are not in power, but someone else will have to beat us. Not Zoran Zivkovic, not Boris Tadic, because they have brought this country into the situation it is now in. Someone third will have to show up and beat the SNS. These to defeat us, never. (Balsa Bozovic, from place: Bojan Pajtic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30410	Thank you. Don't throw it away, Mr. Bozovic. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. You will be entitled to a replica, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Pavicevic, you do not have the right to reply, because you are not mentioned. Mr. Djurisic is right because the party's president, Mr. Tadic, is mentioned, so we will, in that order, as well as Mrs. Comic, by amendment. In that order, we'll give our word. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30411	Of course, this joke of untrueness, insult, slander, baseless accusations is nothing new. The question is, how does it come up with someone in their head to figure out and then say what he's up to with all this... What my colleague Pavicevic would say is three ways to do it, or someone not to hear it well, or that someone has evil intentions or that someone is stupid. The story of me calling for electricity is a lie that can be repeated a hundred thousand times, but it will remain a lie. The energy for democracy was aid, this for the public, the city of Nis and the city of Piroth. Not all the cities where the coalition won together, and in Nis the government was formed before the leks of your leader Slobodan Milosevic. The fact that Vukic wasn't taking pictures with his leaders at that moment, which you mentioned earlier, telling the truth that I was hanging out with them, was because he was then a deputy assistant assistant assistant lead fan, I don't know where, and he was far from it. So, these three reasons obviously, now let the Serbian public be assessed why my predecessor spoke those lies. So, does he hear well? It's obvious he needs to hear it well. Is he malicious? Of course not. So there's a third reason why he said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30412	I thank you, Mr. Zivkovic, although I wish you had respected the dignity of the National Assembly. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: May I confess that I am stupid? I’m afraid my problem is that I’ve been in the National Assembly for 18 years and I know very well who he was when he said some words, so I can react. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. (Alexander Martinovic from the post: I answered before him. Mr. Djurishich, please, just to explain, I'll give you back the time. Mr. Martinovic, you must understand, Mr. Djurisic, as I said, has a replica on your presentation, and only then we open a new circle of replicas and then you have Mr. Zivkovic on display. Here you go, Mr. Gursich. Sign up again so I can get the time back from the beginning, so it doesn't damage you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30413	Thank you, Chairman. This debate, of course, is at least about electricity excises and when there are no arguments to defend one completely indecipherable measure, such as the introduction of additional budget revenue, and the arguments we hear already the second day are that the budget is never better, the best possible condition, then it moves with insults, slanders, lies, and I don't know what it's not with. The country is in this condition, you've been running it for three years. For three years, you've been running this country and you're responsible for the fact that today's average salary is less than three years ago, which is a public debt almost two-thirds higher than it was three years ago, because the deficit is what it is, it was last year... (Zoran Babic from the post: Deficit. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30414	Please, Mr. Babic, allow Mr. Djurisic to complete the exhibition
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30415	... Last year the deficit at the end of the year was twice as high as it was at the end of 2011. Is this year gonna be what it's gonna be? We'll see. We have continued under the adopted budget, which the minister is also calling for, projected a deficit greater than it was in 2011. That's true. Whether he's gonna be like that or not in the end, we'll see. Now you claim not to, I can believe it or not, we've talked about it, there's different data as to how much that deficit really is and stuff like that. What we've done in 12 years, citizens know and appreciate... (Zoran Babic from place: I see.) ... And don't lead. Don't be negative about it, try to be half as good, so that citizens can live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30416	Time. Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, but I have to give the right to a replica. The word has a folk MP, Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I, here, confess everything Zoran Zivkovic said and that I am stupid, and that my leader was a Free Milosevic and that I am a war criminal, I confess everything. But here, the respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Bečić, the photograph, Arkan, or Mr. Zoran Zivkovic shakes hands with the Arkan, next to him is a man I know, I cannot remember his name, and in the background is the late Milovan Ilic – Minimax. There are more photos here where Zoran Zivkovic, otherwise, smoking a cigarette smile along with Dusan Mihajlovic, at a concert of Red Berets in Kula. It was at a time when the Red Berets were heroes of the five-octobar revolution, and then overnight they became enemies of state number one. So here's what Zoran Zivkovic said and I don't even know about the energy for democracy and that only Nis was getting, which is not true. I also admit that I'm stupid and I'm all, here, admitted, you're all Mr. Zivkovic's administration. The only thing I don't understand is how you, as a smooth and fine European, are Democrats, in company with Zeljko Raznatovic Arkan. Here's what I really don't get. If you can explain to me how it's possible for someone to be for the EU, someone to be for democracy... Here are the pictures printed, so let the citizens see. So, Zoran Zivkovic with Zeljko Raznatovic Arkan. Now, if you could explain to me how...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30418	Time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30419	Here I go. If you explain to me how Europe, democracy, human rights, and with the people you shake hands with, I will be very grateful to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30420	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Zivkovic, you have the right to a replica. Your name and name were mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30421	Of course, salva insult and falsehood continues, and this is the logical consequence of the recognition of the previous speaker of his intellectual, moral, and all other abilities. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30422	Mr. Zivkovic, I will no longer allow MPs to be insulted in the National Assembly. (Zoran Zivkovic from the place: I was insulting? How? I ask you not to repeat those words, do not use those words in the high home of the National Assembly. Please don't use those qualifications. (Balsa Bozovic throws out of place. ) Mr Bozovic, I ask you to respect each other, to respect each other in the National Assembly. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Are you stupid? ) (Alexander Martinovic from the city: I admit it. I said first. Don't throw it to Mr. Bozovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: Ask – is he stupid? You have a warning to Mr Bozovic because you are asking another MP... (Alexander Martinovic from town: I admit. I said first. (Dragan Šutanovac from the city: So he admits. I won't say it, Mr. Sutanovac. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What am I doing? (Alexander Martinovic from the scene: I said I was stupid. I admit it. Do you really think, Mr. Bozovic, that it's okay to act and insult your colleagues like that? Do you think it's okay to talk to your colleagues like that? (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: How and in what way? That's what he says about you, Mr. Bozovic. I thought you were still a person who respected his colleagues, not in such a way as to make fun of his colleagues. If you think it's like this high house and if it's like you're talking to your colleagues like that, I'll apologize for being wrong. I will no longer allow you to address each other in this way, and I ask you to respect yourselves no matter what you have a different political opinion. You can say that in the National Assembly, you can advocate your political opinion, but don't be offended, please. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30423	Thank you. To support the amendment to Article 2 submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, as it removes the proposed provision to put electricity for final consumption into action, as well as biofuels and biodiversity. [[Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Give me the replica.]] A very similar amendment submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. There's a difference in biofuels and biotech. Since it is said here that the opposition should attack the government, I have not yet begun, but I can, not a problem, both the Government and the Minister of Finance and Alexander. I can start attacking quite simply, but I'm not doing it because it's talking about the law, not the attacks on the government. Here's the minister present who can testify if he doesn't change his mind that it's not about the amendment. So why was it necessary for the minister to respond on the payment of excise duty to the engaged force and suppliers? Why was it necessary for the minister to respond on the right reasons for the introduction of electricity excise duty and to prove that it is incorrect that all EU countries have it and to bring it into contact with what it is, and this is an IMF request, such as the IMF's request that the money from the budget as state aid, the subsidy does not go to Elektroprivreda, because the IMF exists to be guaranteed to the creditors that the first money it has to pay for the debts. Therefore, completely simplified, there is an IMF and therefore the IMF says – if you want an arrangement with us, we need to know that all the money that exists in the budget will first go to the creditors, and you cannot first give money for state aid, nor for subsidies, nor for anything else until we are sure that the money that comes in first will go to the creditors. That's what the IMF serves in the international financial system after Breton Luc in 1946. That doesn't exactly work right now and I wouldn't mind talking about whether or not we need to make a deal with the IMF, we can talk. Excise was introduced because it's a safe income. The explanation that the hired power and the paying of the supplier, that it's been so for years is not a good explanation. We've been out of excise duty for years, so now we're initiating excise duty. Our debate here should serve, I am truly sorry that there is no will here to address together through dialogue the people for whom we are working and who will carry out the burden of these gatherings, should serve to analyse and introduce excise and effects on home budgets, and not to what, by the will of the majority, seems to serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30424	Thank you. Mr Vujovicu, you have no right to answer, you have already spoken under this amendment, but we will move on to the next amendment, so you will have the opportunity. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Markovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorović. The word has a minister in the government, Mr Vujovic. Here you go. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I am the bearer of the amendment.) ) Yes, Mr. Sutanovac, you are the applicant of the amendment, you have the right to speak, but the prime minister has the advantage, unless the minister, here, gives you the advantage. Please, sign in. You got a lot of people in the system or not? No, it's an empty list. I've got you in the system now. You have the word, Mr. Sutanovac. As you can see, I'm focused. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30425	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This is one of the amendments that the DS has submitted in its desire to give you the opportunity to withdraw the bill that we consider to be disastrously bad, that the consequences will be extremely large, above all, on the issue of the standard of living of the Serbian citizens, which has already been crushed, from 2012 to today, by various taxes that have been increased and which are now being introduced. We've often listened to what happened in some past day. We've gone back in history, but I'm just going to try to give you a brief analysis of why we think you're making a big mistake, and that's why we think it's high time for you to realize that the state exists because of citizens, not citizens because of the state. So, the deficit of the budget cannot be more important than the standard of living of Serbian citizens, who are povertying from year to year, in the last three years as never before. The state increased VAT from 18% to 20% after the change in 2012. It was the first blow to both the economy and the citizens of Serbia. Then the state increased the profit tax from 10% to 15%, which is a 50% increase. Then we've now got solutions on property tax that we can't figure out what the percentage of the increase is. In the last three years, the state has been building one upside-down policy based on strengthening the state and weakening Serbia's citizens. Of course, there are two political philosophies where the state is stronger than everyone, the state has run everything, as a rule is one man of state, but this is not the idea of a democratic society being built in Serbia since 2000. The idea is to keep the citizens so that citizens have money, that citizens can pay bills, not that citizens are taken more and more every day. What's it for? According to the NBS report, which I believe you are using, in Serbia, there are fewer and fewer employees and more unemployed, i.e. by the NBS bulletin in Serbia in the first four months of this year, we have 28% less foreign direct investment than in last year, which was catastrophic. Today, the interior minister issued a conjugal statement that we have a 28% increase in corruption this year compared to last year. These are the problems that the government of the Republic of Serbia and them should face to solve. On the other hand, you harmonize and introduce taxes with the EU. I would understand that at any point you said -- let's harmonize the wages with the EU, let's harmonize the revenues that citizens make with the EU, let's harmonize the standard with the EU, let's do something that's good with the EU before we take another 7.5% for excise, 4.5% for tax, 12.33%, exactly as you said, of electricity that's nowhere in the world, and it shouldn't be a luxury. It is incorrect that all EU countries have excise duties. Our first neighbours, Croats have no excise duty and are in the EU. Which is why we're harmonising something we might not get to for years? We have not started negotiations yet, this government has been unable to open negotiations with the EU for two and a half years. I think you still have a chance not to stay remembered just by reducing your pensions and salaries, I remind you, it's your legions that you have on your name and last name, you have a chance to still withdraw this law and be a man in place, as you were before, because I know that unlike your colleagues sitting across from me, you know perfectly what was done by 2012. I know you've sat very often with the former president of the Republic and advised him on the economics, and I know that you're in excellent relations with former Prime Minister Cvetkovic, so I know that what your colleagues are saying across the street, you know that it doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30426	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30427	With your good wishes, I fully agree and I think there should be a bigger space so we can see what we agree on. Unfortunately, I must tell you that life's reality is such that it requires serious consideration of the consequences of what happened in the past. I don't want to define who's to blame, I just want to tell you next. Until the global crisis, Serbia had growth rates of 4.5% to 6%, but, as you well know, it was based on an aggregate demand that was financed by borrowing, grants and remittances, and it was unsustainable. This generated both fiscal deficits and a balance of payments deficit, which was unsustainable on the long term. We were in charge of over four billion dollars in 2008-2012 because we had to cover these deficits, and in 2013 and 2014, the additional deficits were created by the iner, which could not be financed differently. What we're doing, we're trying to get that boat going straight to the cliff, turn it around and turn it around. (Janko Veselinović, from the town: Turn. Replica. What?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30428	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30429	Excuse me, let's turn around, 'cause the boat went straight to the cliff. When I became acting Minister of Finance, we had an estimate of the 8.8% deficit. Before we started the measure, we lowered the deficit to 6.6%, by direct austerity measures. Since January 1st, we have remained in the margins 2%, and we are currently below 1%. By the end of the year, I expect to stay below 3%. If we don't save anything extra from what we've saved in the last five and a half months, we'll be in that area.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30430	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30431	Why do we care about excise duty? Because all the savings we've achieved, which I've already talked about several times today, are not savings that we can present to these conservative organizations as results, are not sustainable on the long term. Excise is, excise is a structural income that allows us to reassess everything we had to introduce as an initial cost reduction measure, which is wages, pensions, fuel costs, materials and everything else, to restructure the debt and get out of this situation healthy, to return those investments to where they should be. We absolutely agree here, just because you don't see the meaning of excise duty in all of this, it seems to me that a combination of insufficient information and a lack of understanding of the structural changes that are necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30432	Time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30433	You mention counseling from before. Yes, I have often advised, they did not listen to these advices, because it is politically and socially difficult to accept structural reforms.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30434	Thank you, Mr. Minister. What makes you think you have the right to a replica, Mr. Sutanovac? You have no right, Mr. Sutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: first he misread me. The second one said that what I think is wrong... ) Mr Sutanovac, the minister did not speak to you at any time, nor did he call you by your first name. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, how could he not speak to me? Mr. Minister, please tell Mr. Chairman if you spoke to me. I thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. I don't want to go with you at all. Keep it on Twitter, Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Grandmother, come in. It really doesn't make sense. What's the deal? Mr. Sutanovac, you said we were lost in this debate on Twitter and you said a lot of other things. Continue your... (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Read the synopsis to see... Mr. Sutanovac, I give you a warning because you do not allow the session to continue. Mr. Sutanovac, I'll have another warning if you don't allow the session to continue. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: A reminder of what I'm writing on Twitter? No, Mr. Sutanovac, it's because you don't allow the session to continue. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: "How?" So you're interrupting the session, Mr. Sutanovac. You know the Rules of Procedure very well and respect the Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sutanovac. You do not allow the session to take its normal course, because you stand up without the presidency's permission, report, speak and interfere with the other MPs to speak, and then you are surprised that you have been warned. I told you you didn't have the right to replicate because the minister didn't mention you, he didn't address you... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: he didn't speak to me? Ask him. Name and last name, Mr. Sutanovac. I can't be the chairman of every time to interpret whether someone misread you and what you thought, what you didn't say or what someone else said. Don't ask us to, Mr. Shutanovac. Feel free to write, Mr. Sutanovac, whatever you want. You said and you wrote that you didn't get the word, that you just wanted to speak, and you didn't answer, Mr. Sutanovac. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: I didn't answer? Earlier, Mr. Sutanovac, on another amendment. You know very well what I'm talking about. Excuse me, Mr. Babic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30435	I thank you, Mr. Becic. I am pleased that our colleague has allowed us to continue our normal course and debate according to the amendment, and that the argument of the increased tone does not mean more than the arguments of knowledge and profession that Mr Vujovic made two days ago today. I can understand some fellow applicants of this amendment who advocate a lower electricity price because they have never voted for a higher electricity price. The price of electricity is changing in Serbia as the Ministry of Energy sends such a request to the government, the government votes and approves, and then references the request to the Energy Agency, which increases the price of electricity. In 2007, in fact, on May 15th 2007, only one man sitting in this hall was a minister and only one man sitting in this hall voted in the government and gave consent to the increase in electricity in Serbia by 15% and is the amendment's promoter. How is it that the citizens of Serbia were not crushed at the time, and now they're crushed? How did it live great and wonderful then, so it was necessary to increase the price of electricity by 15%? Only one man in this hall was also a minister on 1 March 2008 and also voted in the same government to increase the electricity price by 7.6%. And then the people in Serbia were crushed, and then the people in Serbia lived badly, but voted to increase the electricity price by 7.6%. Also, on August 1st of 2008, probably at some phone session, as it is time for Haniotti and summering in Greece, likely to have voted in the phone session, but agreed to increase the electricity price by 8.4%. Only one man, the same, was Minister and on March 1st 2010, when he was probably already from Kopalnik, from skiing, probably from some helicopter transport, but not me around air traffic, please, voted to raise the electricity price by 10%. And then the citizens of Serbia were mortified, and then the Serbian citizens lived badly, and that wasn't enough for him, so on April 1st, the citizens of Serbia didn't get a first-april joke, but they got the consent of the government, which is the same fellow who was now an MP and then a minister, voted for the price of electricity to rise by 15.1%. How do you believe in this policy of concern over the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when one hand raises, or consent by telephone, because these government sessions were not even held in Germany, where they should be held, but through some telephone sessions or video links or where they were by world destinations, but managed to impose 15% on Serbian citizens, so 7.6%, and 8.4%, and 10%, and 15.1%? Once or twice a year, he agreed to increase the price of electricity, and now with such a grisly talk about protecting the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why didn't he think about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia then? Why didn't he think about where that money would go? He was a very powerful, extremely powerful man in this country. Why didn't he turn the CEO of the EPS and say, "Why are you spending money on marketing campaigns?" Why did 300 to 500 million dinars spend EPS annually until 2012 on marketing? What kind of marketing is needed by EPS, monopolies, the only player on our market, except that 300 to 500 million dinars per year have not been poured out of the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia into the EPS and the EPS into marketing agencies? If we know that DS deputy president has controlled and owned these marketing agencies, he will explain why he increased and voted for an increase in electricity of 7, 8, 10 and 2 times 15%, and not as a powerful man called the EPS director and told us what kind of interest the EPS has with the concert, so 353 million EPS dinars only gave for one concert in 2011. Why didn't he, as a powerful man, call the EPS director to account for why in one year only one football club, he donated 80 million dinars, whose money, from which the pasture was taken off and from where it came from? From the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So, an increase to organise concerts, increase to go to football clubs and out of the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Serbia into marketing agencies of vice president of the DS. Now, this is how both EPS and energy were managed in Serbia and our country. Because of this and because of such concerts, marketing campaigns, which is not all, the blatant spending of funds, we are now forced to do what we do, which is not for joy, which is hard, which we ultimately promised to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the campaign ahead of last parliamentary elections. I agree with Mr Vujovic that it is just another measure to recover our public finances as soon as possible and so that we can, not think, but in agreement with the IMF to return pensions and salaries to the public sector, but based on what is being done, what is being done, what is being saved, rather than on the basis of what you said to Mr Vujovic, such a policy that our ship must have sailed to the hills, but that it breaks into pieces. Avertance from such policy was made by the elections in 2012, an even greater deviation made by the elections in 2014. People in Serbia won't look forward to this law, they won't look forward to a bigger account, but they will know that money goes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, goes to heal public finances, goes to get to that green branch that we need as soon as possible, and does not go to 353 million dinar concerts, does not go to fund football clubs, does not go to marketing agencies, marketing campaigns and marketing agencies of any member and any man, because EPS does not need a marketing campaign, but needs modernisation. Well, that's the difference between you and me. Now, that's why people in Serbia and when they're hard to believe, but they believe in the data I'm sure the prime minister and finance minister know best, and that's the state of public finances. Therefore, Mr Vujovicu, the SNS will vote against this amendment and, of course, for the law in general, as you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30436	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. I recognized myself very clearly. Yes, please, Mr. Sutanovac, I recognized you in the words "ex-minister" and "in the pasture". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30437	Mr. Becic, I recognized you in the pasture once when I passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30438	Mr. Sutanovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30439	Apropo pasture for asking me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30440	Mr. Sutanovac, you asked for the right to replica, right? No mention of your name or name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30441	There's a minister who was mentioned in 2007...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30442	Mr. Sutanovac, let me finish. And then you said that I should have told Mr. Babic I should have recognized you. And I recognized in his sentence: "ex minister" and recognized when he spoke of pasture, so I know that you were spoken of and that gave you the opportunity to replicate. And now what can you blame me for?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30443	I don't blame you for anything. I'm saying, on the contrary, people from Vrbasa say the same thing about seeing you in the pasture, I don't see what the problem is. What I can't talk about right now is Mr. Babic's replica that had inspired exposure from 2007 to 2015. Would you allow me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30444	I don't understand you, Mr. Shutanovac. When you get the word - you object for getting it, when you don't get it - you object for not getting it. I don't know how to stand up to you. I see you're still nervous because your security clearance is what it is, but there's nothing I can do to help you. Here you go, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30445	Can you just give me back the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30446	No, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30447	Well, what do you mean?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30448	Go on, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30449	Mr. Becic, I beg you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30450	I can't take your time back and correct your security clearance. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30451	I'll use my right to remain silent in these two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30452	It's your right, Mr. Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30453	It's my right and your shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30454	Let me be ashamed, Mr. Schutanovac. If I'm to be ashamed in Serbia, it's not a problem. I think you need a lot more than I do, Mr. Sutanovac. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30455	Will you give it to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30456	Speak, speak. Mr. Djurisic has come forward since I gave you my word, so he has to wait for order.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30457	As far as this amendment is concerned, we cannot accept it, in any case, except in the presentation of the previous speaker, who wanted to honor me with some silence, etc., but apparently wanted to honor the economy of Serbia that they broke down since 2000 and the privatizations that they had done in Serbia, because it bothered me when this gentleman who led a ministry said - why don't we harmonize salaries with the EU? One question is raised: in the EU, in any EU country, not counting perhaps the ones that entered, I mean those developed countries, did they have over 600 failed and looting privatisations, did they daily grow to tens of millions of public debt from their countries, did they have such deficits and did their politicians become so rich overnight, that they could build, work, do whatever they wanted in this country? That you, gentlemen, by any chance, as you promised, had conducted 2,000 normal, healthy, fair privatisations in Serbia since 2000, that you had encouraged the private sector, that you had reduced the public debt, not increased it, that your deficit did not grow from year to year, that you acted responsibly, honestly and that you were really concerned, because you said that the state exists because of citizens, that you were leading the country in a responsible and fair way, today, absolutely certainly, we would not have reduced either wages or pensions. But since you were acting so arrogantly, it was a necessary measure that the citizens of Serbia accepted because we said it was the only chance to recover our economy, our economy, and that we could leave something behind for generations to come, after you left us, we see what, only that, misery, grief, misery, empty budget, broken public enterprises, robbed public enterprises, and what Mr Babic was saying about marketing agencies, etc. Speaking of EPS, this electricity excise goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30458	Please, Mr. Jovic, just go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30459	I'm going back to the amendment. This is very important. That excise goes into the Republic of Serbia's budget. On the other hand, if you are looking at the budget of the Republic of Serbia, you can see that the budget is being managed in one fair and fair way today, because the deficit that has been reduced to almost 1% means that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are not being robbed. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are not being robbed because if they were being robbed, the deficit would most likely be 15%, and the public debt would jump by a few billion more. As you knew in 2012, because of the elections, that six billion euros in debt and on the one hand, your deficit is growing, your public debt is growing, companies are public in a catastrophic situation, and then from these loans, you blur people's eyes and you say, "We'll raise your salaries 5% and be happy about it." Anyone can do that. That we can do tomorrow, here, from Monday such a policy to conduct in Serbia. But we won't, so at the risk of losing the election. But the citizens of Serbia will never accuse the SNS of any measure we withdraw because they know what awaits them if you return. They know what's waiting for them, you're hungry. You've been in power a long time. You can't get used to opposition. We are handling the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the interests of the citizens of Belgrade, if we talk about what has been waiting for us in the City of Belgrade, which is a 20.8% deficit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30460	Please, Mr. Jovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30461	I'll be back on the subject. Mr. Vujovic knows what that means. So don't lecture that we don't want to harmonize receipts with the EU. We do, but we also want to create a system that is in the EU. When we make such a system and treat our country that way, then both wages and pensions will be at that level. But it's been squandered for 15 years. If you'd done it in time, we wouldn't have had these problems today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30462	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, do you still want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30463	Chairman, I think you've been in violation of Article 100 for some time now. A Rules of Procedure which says that the President of the National Assembly, when chaired by the National Assembly, leaves the presidency of one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly to participate in the search. For some time now, you have been engaged in a debate with the MPs, completely out of the agenda, insulting MPs, using your post as chairman. Please, if you have something to say that you think can use the debate that we are having today, come down from that place, answer the word of whoever is chairing at that moment, you get the word and say it, not that you constantly abuse the function of the chairman and you debate with the discussions of fellow Members of Parliament. That's not according to the Rules of Procedure. That is why there is this 100th member who obliges the president that if you want to participate in the debate, there is a way he can do it, and not by using the presidency and abuse because you do not measure your time, you cannot give or take away your own word, as you do with other MPs, and almost always, by the rule and exclusively with the MPs of the opposition. With them you flaunt, turn off the microphone, allow them to be offended, you are deaf to everything that comes from the MPs from your MP group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30464	Mr. Sutanovac, why do you think you have the right to a replica? Dragan Šutanovac, from the scene, explicitly said. Look at the synopsis. I can look at the stenographic notes. (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: I was the only one who ran the ministry. I recognized myself in that. You still recognize yourself, Mr. Sutanovac. It really doesn't make sense. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30465	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.. (Marian Risticevic, from the place: What is this, my people? )......................................................................................................... Dear Vice President, may I proceed? The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, of course I will not support this amendment because it does not go in terms of the consolidation of our finances and the overall budget, which was one of the main tasks of this government even during the elections of this government. As we can see, public finances are getting together a little bit, and if we were to adopt this amendment, it wouldn't work out. As I have heard today and the previous debates, I am simply shocked to hear from some MPs who were actors of budget discharge in the previous period, and are now pushing to avoid the introduction of excise duties. We would certainly not have introduced excise duties if the previous four ministers in the former government had not been found on the indictee's bench, which is Oliver Dulic, Jasna Matic, Mr Bubalo and Sasa Dragin. These are four former regime ministers who found themselves on the defendant's bench. I hope that, in the future, the list will be expanded, each day, by my assessment, based on the data I have kept, based on the state auditor, three, four former ministers on this indictee's bench should be found. Of course, you wouldn't be imposing excise duties, Mr. Minister, if it weren't for an empty budget, not just a budget, in an illegal manner by the former regime, but also the pockets of citizens. Let me quote that it's just so-called. "The garbage mafia" in Belgrade, while the previous regime had embezzled 310m dinars, and they were sentenced to 73 years in prison," the quote concluded. So, here, respected citizens of Serbia, where the money went from the Republic of Serbia's budget to privatisation and otherwise from taxes. We, Mr. Minister, wouldn't be introducing these excise duties today, if it weren't for one of the former ministers in the former government, and so says the state auditor for 2011, paid the billboards with messages "Let's Clean Serbia", not more than half a million euros, as he paid for advertising in one daily list," I'm not going to say which. For this reason, respected citizens of Serbia and respected MPs are introducing days, in addition to the rest, excise. The same minister, paid for making the site 25 000 euros, etc. We today, Mr. Minister, would not have introduced excise duties if one of the former ministers in the former government had not paid for the upgrade of software for VMA 850,000 euros, and that is even four times more than the computer program cost when it was purchased, completed quote, the report by the auditors.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30466	Please, Mr. Atlagic, just go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30467	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30468	I can't let you talk anymore if you don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30469	So, Your Honor, I'm talking about the introduction of excise duties and not the introduction of excise duties, is it, and this amendment I'm talking about, that the budget has not been emptied? So, at the end of the day here, I've heard a few, honourable vice presidents, expressions that don't fit this National Assembly, go from a man who told you here and you directly that you're cattle. He called the SNS MPs, in April 2015, that they were less smart, finished quote than those at home. He called Serbia's government "a firing machine", and I will also say the date if necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30470	I ask you, Mr. Atlagic, the public knows what they say in the National Assembly, you don't have to repeat it, because I don't think it contributes to today's work. So please bring the debate to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30471	Here, I'll finish with that, Your Honor, with the same MP here today saying that we're a piece of the Parliament that we're bastards. Thank you very much. I don't think that's appropriate, that should be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30472	The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30473	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, honourable ministers and respected citizens, as you said this new imposition was about the price of electricity here because of the structural reforms carried out by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I ask you, Mr. Minister, to get back on the subject completely and to ignore these mutual accusations and these truths that we have heard so far, yes -- how do you think citizens can endure these structural reforms that the prime minister has tried to implement together with you in the last three years, and this is the fourth year? How do you think citizens can provide on their backs with such small salaries and pensions that are also reduced? Increase in property tax, increased prices of basic life supplies, increased electricity prices. How do you think that with...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30474	Mr Bozovicu, it applies to you, as well as to Mr Atlagic and Mr Jovičić, to return to the topic and to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30475	How do you think citizens can pay the price of electricity, Mr. Becic, if you think if you cancel, as you are, all possible subsidies, from local self-government, cities, to the republican level? What if the thirteen social pensions were abolished? What if the price of drugs was increased, and then there was a shortage of the same? How do you think the price of electricity does not affect the functioning of every family in Serbia? And you say the goal is a minor deficit, but that small deficit in your excel table makes a much larger deficit in the home budget of every family in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30476	Mr Bozovicu, if you don't know the text of your amendment, if you don't know what the amendment you have submitted is, I can read it to you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30477	Please, why don't you let me finish. The amendment is "wipe," Mr. Becic and the explanation for which it is deleted and now I'm talking about it, and you don't want to let me talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30478	Please, then, speak of the amendment, of your reasons why you submitted the amendment and requested that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30479	Can I finish? I've got a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30480	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30481	An explanation of why we do not want this amendment and supplement to be voted in this assembly at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30482	Please, just about this member. You can talk about this article, not the law, about all the members of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30483	Yes, only about this member, he is essential because he imposes a new charge on this member when it comes to electricity. A new impose on the citizens of Serbia. I know it hurts, because it does it directly to the SNS, so you won't let me finish, but let me finish. Citizens need to know, from whatever level comes a gathering and an increase does that to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30484	Mr. Bozovic, as I warned Mr. Atlagic, as I warned Mr. Jovicic to talk about the amendment, I also warn you, not because I do not want something to be said in the National Assembly. So I ask you to go back to the amendment and say why you submitted the amendment and ask that this member be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30485	You'll have to make it up to me this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30486	Go ahead, go ahead, I'm not making up for anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30487	Of course, yes, this isn't your assembly, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30488	This is the Serbian Citizens' Assembly, Mr Bozovicu.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30489	That's why you let me talk to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30490	Here you are, but to respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30491	Citizens are unhappy, Mr. Becic because the state is not going in the right direction. It does not go for a simple reason because ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia claim that we are doing well, and apparently think of themselves rather than those who chose them. They were deceived because they voted 20% lower price of electricity in the elections, and they got a 12-gauge pick-up slightly higher and these are new impositions, all in order to allegedly structural reforms that citizens on their backs can no longer bear and cannot simply pay, have nothing to pay from. What has been mentioned on several occasions today is that it was possible that the same thing happened in 2008 and 2010. Does anyone think that based on these arguments, citizens will be better off today? He won't. Then the price of electricity increased because it lived better, and today it lives incomparably worse than it did a few years ago. When you talk about structural reforms being such that they mean that citizens survive with what little resources they have, it tells you that you will soon be out of citizens. One hundred and twenty thousand people have been sharpened from Serbia since 2012 and you say they are not because of the price of electricity because it is the lowest in the region, but also the lowest in the region, the lowest income in the region, is the worst standard in the region. Now, that's what the problem is when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30492	Please, your time is up, Mr. Bozovic. Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30493	Just for a little while, we're talking real time, real space, real country to Serbia, and I'm asking you what's the alternative. I explained very well that the structural side of income is important so that we can carry out a review of higher wages and pensions as soon as possible, that people feel the improvement of these results that we are already achieving. What's your suggestion? Should we give up? I don't think so. I don't want us to give up, I want us to finally step out of this process of completing reforms and transformation, become a healthy economy in which people are going to invest, create new jobs, increase industrial production and give Serbia third-generation investments. We're going in the right direction and we're staying and we're transferring the plan. We have made a very rational, transparent and clear plan for the exit of fiscal consolidation, the exit from the situation we inherited and we remain on that path. Before this increase in electricity, Serbia was 26% lower than BiH, the first next country in the region with no higher salary than Serbia and was even more behind Macedonia, Bulgaria, because there are 8.05 cents and 8.23 cents. After the increase, Serbia will continue to be 17% cheaper than Bosnia. Find me any other strategic product, which is so much cheaper in those countries than in Serbia. Secondly, very important, this increase without misquoting is on average, according to the calculation, the official account of EPS 325 dinars per number. Some households have multiple numbers and probably that information is not very representative of all households, but according to the EPS count. All elements of the costs mentioned by counterpart Jovanovic, they enter the price, total EPS revenues, when they are shared with the number of delivery and charged kilowatts, the price is obtained. That's the lowest price in the region and Europe. Thank you very much. (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Replica, the minister asked me what is the alternative? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30494	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Bozovicu, you are inconclusive, because it certainly is not the basis for which you can get a replica. What the minister is asking you or saying... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: He asked me how it was not the basis. ) It is not the basis for you to be entitled to a replica, and what the minister asks or says is not the basis for you to get the right to a replica. That's a rhetorical question, Mr. Bozovic. I don't want it that way, I'll have to give you a warning if you don't let the debate continue. I ask you to sit down and allow the debate to continue. I cannot ask anyone who speaks in the National Assembly any word, that someone may have a basis for replication. You know what the basis for a replica is, when you're mentioned, when you're mentioned in a negative context... (Balsa Bozovic, from the post: Or when you are a member of the SNS. ) You have a warning, Mr Bozovic, because you do not want to allow the work to continue in the National Assembly. I thank Mr. Bozovic. (Balsa Bozovic, from the city: From whom it is, it is an honor. Mr. Jovicic, he has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Imagine, distinguished ministers telling you before you what the alternative is, and while I listened to the speaker before you talk about the citizens of Serbia and how difficult it is for them, I was about to cry. He talks about how difficult it is for Serbian citizens and how they live and how they will pay for anything. (Balsa Bozovic, from the place: What is this now? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30496	Mr. Bozovic, don't get it, I'll have to give you another warning. (Balša Bozovic, from the city: You gave me two. ) Mr. Bozovic, don't make any money. How I gave you two warnings. I've only given you one warning, Mr. Bozovic, but if you continue to earn and disrupt order in the O.R., I'll have to give another warning. (Goran Ciric, from the place: What is this? Mr. Ziric, don't throw it away. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: How can he speak twice, explain it to me.) Mr. Sutanovac, I asked you to read the Rules of Procedure earlier. Each MP has the right to appear on one amendment, as many times as there is time, and the SNS parliamentary group has plenty of time and every MP in this room can appear several times after one amendment. Is that all right, Mr. Shutanovac? Here you go, Mr. Jovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30498	Thank you, Chairman. I really didn't mean to offend anyone, nor did I mention someone's name and name. Unfortunately, the speaker before the minister came out of the room and it's done regularly, and I just want a constructive debate, so that we can show the citizens of Serbia how it works, what he did and what we plan to do in the future. You know, the Honorable Chairman, when someone tells Vujovic - your deficit in the exele table, it's clear to me that they viewed the deficit 15 years ago as a deficit in the excel table. Because of that deficit in the excel table, because they looked at it, depending on how the computer goes on, Serbia is here today, where it is, but we don't see the deficit in Serbia as a deficit in the excel table, but we look at it as a budget belonging to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that is a fundamental difference. You cannot spin or spill demagogue to the people here that the state can be in a catastrophic state, finance, public enterprises, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, too much responsibility, and on the other hand, citizens to live well, prosperously, that there is prosperity, high wages, etc. That's what you did while you were in power. I don't understand how you can keep saying that, and now that you're an opposition? That's really scary. You say the state isn't going in the right direction. I think the state is going in the right direction, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30499	Please, Mr. Jovic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30500	I'm going back to the amendment and I'm tying it right now, automatically. However, the party that proposed this amendment is going in the wrong direction and in the wrong direction and to me alone is Mr. Becic, the esteemed chairman of our National Assembly, something unclear. This concludes, we saw how you led the governments and how you raised the prices and public debt of the Republic of Serbia, while you had formal governments. But I don't understand when the government falls in shadow before, so no other minister can say anything or make any suggestion? Well, you people, you can't even rule in the shadows when you don't have any responsibility and no funding. You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30501	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. Mr. Sutanovac, please... Please, just let me listen to Mr. Shutanovec. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Turn to us and say – Government in shadow. ) (Alexander Jovicic, from the post: No one mentioned the party. He said - the government in the shadows, yes. Then how do you think you have a basis for replication, if someone mentioned the government in the shadows? (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: I am Minister of Shadow Government. You're the Minister of Shadow Government? Here you are, Mr. Sutanovac, although I feel like I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure now, which I give you my word, but here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I must admit that I believe that citizens watching this session, the only one with us from the opposition and the minister, are not laughing, so sweet. The citizens are worried. What a young colleague is saying is an expression of his youth and ignorance, possibly that the army didn't serve, so he doesn't even know how some serious systems work, but it's not to ignore it. Mr. Minister, I'll take the opportunity to tell you a few things through a replica. So, since we're asked to give solutions, which is why we have foreign direct investment of 28% in the first four months, 28% down in the first four months. Why have we been in recession for several years? Will the citizens of Serbia be able to withstand your measures that have been extended for the last three years as a possession and all the time right in the pocket of a citizen, an individual. You can't build a state pyramid upside down. It can't be a strong roof if the foundation isn't right, and you're destroying the foundations of what's most important with this decision. Believe me, but I honestly mean this, don't think this is politics at all. I think this is the wrong decision. So I think there are a number of other measures that you could, and you may not see them, I'm not angry about it, you might not see them pulling back, to prevent further collapse of the standard of living of Serbian citizens. When I tell you this, a colleague said that yesterday or the day before yesterday in the paper whether the director of a dependent EPS company paid the bill of two million dinars in a bar...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30503	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. That's what I'm looking for. ) Dear People's MPs, you will be given the word, Mr Babić, because of the correct conduct of the Parliament of the People, Gordana Comić, in the follow-up to this session, I withdraw the warning I gave during the session. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30504	Mr. Becic, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure in 27th and 107th, and I'm asking for that injury to the Rules of Procedure to be heard. Tell me the basis in the Constitution and the law, where it says there's a government in the shadows? You know, Mr. Sutanovac could have declared himself Napoleon, so every time Napoleon is mentioned, he's entitled to replication. He could have declared himself an admiral, but he didn't. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia determine who in the government, and only those who want to be in the shadows, will put themselves in the shadows. You have neither in the Constitution nor in the law, nor in any way that Mr. Jovičić, a distinguished colleague, mentioned the pasture, so that if his colleague Sutanovac had come forward, okay, so that he had mentioned the criminal charges of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I would have understood that, so I would understand that he was applying to mentioning why he didn't go through security checks, so I could understand that too. I could understand a lot of things, for all the anomalies within the Ministry of Defence from 2007 to 2012, that, but for the "Government in Shadows", which does not exist in any law of the Republic of Serbia, or in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that anyone who declares himself doesn't know how to get a word in the National Assembly, I think it is against the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to continue to take account of these, however, street phases.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30505	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I'm obliged to give an explanation. I'm asking you to understand me, because I've been putting up with the pressure of an MP group all the time, and when the speaker yelled at me at the moment -- I'm the government in the shadows, I was scared, and I had to give the word. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "No, you didn't." ) So, I'm sorry I didn't have the right to do that, but when someone in my direction says so in a raised tone – I'm the Government in the Shadow; believe me, I've been caught, scared, and I had to give a word, so I apologize for not having the right to do so by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure. (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: Come on, you gave the word, rather than withdraw the punishment.) ( ) Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: No) I thank you for accepting my explanation. Since we have more reports, Mr Risticevic, Mr Bradic, Mr Djurisic and Mr Jovanovic. Just your basis for reporting whether by amendment or by any other basis? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: After the amendment.) ) According to the amendment. Then I'll give you my word in the order of the announcement. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30506	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I answered so just 20 minutes ago immediately after saying that MP to whom you gave your notice and begging you in the future when he spoke, Mr. Chairman, to provide me with an interpreter, an interpreter for the Serbian language, is that a fellow MP is speaking a version of the Serbian language, but I don't understand him. I'm talking about the MP you gave a warning to, and I called right after him for a word, but I didn't get it. In the meantime, he said "shadowed Minister", Minister of Shadows, and I no longer know which rules rule in this National Assembly, but I do not accept an amendment that reads "is deleted" for the simple reason that the promoters are very inconclusive, which is what we need to understand one expression that is used in Sreme – it is difficult to sort out in an empty house; and I am going to paraphrase it – it is difficult for the government in the abandoned, abandoned, overindebted country that we have found. So excise duties will be a public income that needs to be rooted out, i.e. trying to eradicate the poverty we have encountered, which is almost almost unsustainable to look at. With that money, the government will certainly try to cure the sick, to dress the naked, to put on barefoot, to feed the hungry, to take care of the poor, not just to go, so there will be some public income from the excise. Perhaps the excise duty would not have been necessary if, even if their amendment, which reads, had not found a completely abandoned economic system, the state without an economy in which the economy was so devastated that it spent two and a half times more electricity per unit of GDP than the European countries do. Also, nothing has been done to raise energy efficiency, especially in households, so that no degree of isolation has been achieved for 15 years, or 12 years as they rule in the territory of the entire country and 15 years as they rule in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, almost as much as a white dinar has not been invested in improving energy efficiency, i.e. in the isolation of houses, changing carpentry, etc., so that our households spend twice as much energy per square metre of land as they spend households in Europe. So, I recommend to the government that some of the money he gets from picking up this action to use to stimulate our households to subsidize them, to raise energy efficiency, or to improve isolation, to plaster the walls, to improve isolation, to change the carpentry, and to give them the right way to stimulate for such an activity, and on the other hand to force the economy, or the rest of the economy that we have found to improve its energy efficiency and to spend less electricity per unit of GDP, and I believe that such policy, energy policy, along with this excise policy must produce results. Also, the government should also take care of a small man, and I will say about the farmer, the farmer, and that they give them a proper discount since they cannot fit into those quotas prescribed by the number of kilowatts, not because they spend too much energy on the household, or for the house, but they spend electricity on the garden, for economic facilities, so it should be borne in mind that farmers do not spend energy just to heat themselves, which is least done, they heat on wood, but they prepare food for cattle, they have an economic yard where they spend the right amount of electricity. I therefore propose that in the future, it be considered that they are stimulated in such a way that agricultural landowners who come out of the electricity quota that guarantees relief thanks to the fact that part of their energy is spent on feeding cattle, not on consumption that goes for heating and other activities. I think the future government should take care of it, as well as try to combine agriculture and electricity production, since the excise duty is being introduced for the reason that we haven't found any built-up power plant, especially one that would give electricity from agriculture and biomass and thus raise the country's energy potential. I propose to the Ministry of Finance and the Government that the part that it collects from this excise duty, and therefore I do not accept this amendment "is deleted" to use the future to raise the farms that will produce, along with meat, milk, the appropriate amount of energy for the supply of the farm itself, but also for the use of, or for the supply of, electricity in the network, so that with that electricity delivered to the network, we can process those primary agricultural products of the processing industry, using that energy to make a good food product, to make more branding, and in such a way to fill the domestic and foreign markets from real sources for which these excises and thanks to the raising of new energy potentials, thanks to the production of electricity in agriculture, we raise not only the processing industry, but in such a way from real sources, raise salaries and pensions. I think the government is on the right track, and by doing so, leading the state in the right direction, that's one, as far as I can see, a small step, but better a small step in the right direction than their galloping that took 12 years in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30507	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Serbian citizens, respected citizens of Nis, here we are today in the fourth hour of debate, near the end and from what has been seen from discussions of the so far and what will be until the end of this session, the most certain thing will be that the assembly majority will adopt the amendment of the Act of Accises, especially Article 2 which we are now discussing, will reject our amendments and that you will pay more expensive electricity from the prescribed deadline for, as Mr. Minister said, only 325 dinars. He probably meant to say it wasn't much. I tell you, Mr. Minister, the citizens of Nis owe over nine billion dinars for electricity, not because they are unconscious, not because they are irresponsible, not because they hate the state and the system, they have no place to go. They don't have anywhere to pay. In Nis City, 40,000 people do not work, in Belgrade 103,000. Belgrade has over 1.5 million inhabitants, Nis has 240,000. So, in Nis, half the city has no income. In Nis, more than half of the people connected to the heat go off of remote heating, not because they hate heat, not because they don't want to be heated over the radiator, they don't have where to pay, and they're afraid of the bailiffs and confiscate the immobilities of the only one they have -- apartments. Do you want Nis to start shutting down the power grid because they don't have to pay? They don't have people to pay from. One man lost his house in New Selo because of unpaid bills. The perpetrators came and took the house. It's okay to pay when it comes from where. I told you two days ago, no one drained dry dreno. I ask you to accept our amendments and lift the electricity excises. Give the investment from the budget, run the energy efficiency we talked about. Come on, start the biomass use. Come on, increase the surface under irrigation to raise production three, four times more in the country. Give real revenue, don't just charge the budget by increasing it, hitting the tax on its own. I said you relaxed the budget for 300 million euros. It is Minister Krstic, who sat where you are sitting and took 2% off the health position, contributed to health care, transferred it to retirement to relieve the pension budget. It was then minus 450m euros, you transferred 300m from health care, so you are now likely to give 150m euros annually for pensions. And that's when we said don't do it, raise the production you promised in the pre-election campaign, because you're going to tear down the health care. I won't say, there's a lot of doctors here, let them say what the health care situation is like. I don't have to say anything. Tell the patients if there are or not. The same goes for this measure. There is a life that is outside of Belgrade, people, so there is also a narrower Serbia, there is also southern Serbia. They don't have people to pay from. You are free of the consolidated budget of the Republic of Serbia with excise duties if you have no one. If we keep it that way, let's work out which of the ministers is going to turn off the light in Nis. Here, I know about my city. Half the city has no income. I asked you, when there was an extension of the privatisation deadline, to leave "Machinska" and "Electronska". You said, "It's impossible because we can't finance." So, how did you finance Simpo, Jumko, Smederjevska ironic? How? Well, Smederjevska željara is supposed to work for the Smederjevac, but they owe over 400m euros, dollars, what the hell. How does that have an interest, and there's no interest in Nis? They don't have people from where. I insist and ask the MPs not to accept the Excise Act. What are we gonna do when the bailiffs start to go for unpaid electricity bills? To help these people, so how? How can we help? The city of Nis to help, local self-government, did you say the government couldn't take care of it, i.e. The finance ministry, to take care of local self-government, because they manage their budgets. From where? Well, the city of Nis, it's not like incompetent people are so much in the city government, they have nowhere to pay from. The city owes 200 million for public lighting, owes 200 million for heat. Where do they pay people? Answer that. It's nice to talk to you – we'll even up, iron the budget, deficit, great. Now I'm just saying -- teach me how to tell the citizens of Nis how to survive the winter without income, and new taxes are coming in, increased property tax from 50 to 300%, then increased this tax, and increased that tax, and reduced the contribution to health care, so it has to be paid more from the home budget for medicines, and now increased electricity excise. Where to pay for it? What it says on these papers is that the people can't live better than that. I'm just saying take care of it. What we say has to be paid. Whether your neighbors can pay for it, think about it when you have to vote whether or not you accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30509	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30510	Just for a little while. I have to say it like this. I don't want to speak directly, but the justification of your claim about the state of the town of Nis, where I had the opportunity to be and see a few particularly so-called. complex systems, including ‘Minel’, ‘Electron industry’, etc. and the justification of these demands to help people who can't pay don't crash this measure, because Nis probably doesn't participate with 4.5% of the EPS income anymore. You can't give 95% of the power. Why subsidize those who produce and earn profits from both foreign embassies and high-income people? It's solved by social policy, not by the measure we're giving. Already, Serbia subsidises electricity, as I said, 26% compared to Bosnia, 100% compared to other countries. So the price of electricity in Europe is much higher. There's no reason to share electricity for free. We increase the minimum in order to achieve the goals we set for ourselves and in saving energy and energy substitution, to use other sources and everything else. What you're talking about, there's already a program that targets, which targets groups that can't pay. We can watch that program again, but that's not enough reason for this measure not to be implemented. Remember, these were old principles, that we had electricity and gas, that led us to this point that half of the debt increase over the past 10 years just came through deficits of public enterprises that didn't charge anything. We can't talk at the same time about wanting to restructure these companies, that we want to have a healthy start, and that we offer electricity to deplete. It doesn't go together. And the social programs you're looking for, I think they're justified and I think we should talk about it separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30511	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30512	Thank you. We've heard from Mr. Minister more than once that this measure needs structurally to change the revenue side of the budget and that this is part of the fiscal consolidation measure. The goal is to reduce pensions' participation in GDP from 11% to 9%. Now we're somewhere at 10, maybe a little below that. To achieve that goal, Minister, there are two ways. One way is to cut wages and pensions. You're headed that way. Another way is to increase GDP. There hasn't been any results for three years. Practically in 2013, 2014 and 2015, Serbia will have a GDP decline. When you say what an alternative is, it's an alternative. You said it yourself yesterday, 3.7 billion euros in approved loans we don't use. Why, Minister? What's the problem with doing that? You entered this government as Minister of Economy, you probably had some plans about it. Today you are the finance minister and your primary authority is to look at the republican budget, but it cannot be filled better and more if it does not grow in economy, if there is no investment. He said a member of the Fiscal Council, you didn't say it was incorrect, that the tax efficiency today is less than in 2012, and that today at that level in the budget would be between 20 billion and 30 billion dinars. He said here in the Assembly on the Assembly Committee. With this measure, 17 billion are planning to enter the budget next year. Here's your savings. Raise that efficiency only to the level at which it was in 2012. You say – it has now grown since 2014. In 2014, this government was, you were in the government, five months as finance minister. There was someone before you who was declared a genius. Let's compare to some other times. Why the growth of the economy in all countries is about three percent, 3.5%, 4%, and we're talking about whether it's going to be minus five zeros or plus five. These things we want the government to do, not to put its hand back in the citizens' pocket, where there's almost nothing. Salaries and pensions have been cut, prices increased. Inflation exists, not large, but there is, 2-3% will be at the end of this year. These property taxes have been increased. Now the price of electricity is going to rise. We don't think that's the way. The way is to develop the economy, invest, foreign investment, create new jobs, create new values. When you say -- if there's an alternative, there's an alternative, and this government doesn't know how to work. There's been no results for three years. Every year there are smaller and smaller foreign investments. There's no increase in employment. Without that, it can't grow social product. When the social product grew, the share of the budget would be reduced, without cuts in wages and pensions. I believe that's true. It's simple math, and that's not what it's about. There is no increase in gross social product, but we are looking to cut wages and pensions so harshly. We believe that citizens cannot survive this measure. We've been listening here for two days about how someone raised the price of electricity. If he listens to that alone, it would turn out that the price of electricity is the most expensive in Europe, and you keep saying it's the cheapest in Europe. I believe that's true, but then why do you think someone raised the price of electricity in the previous years? This is not an increase in electricity prices, i.e. electricity, in the sense that this revenue will come to the EPS, that it will continue to develop. It won't grow. There won't be any investment. Two years, three years, no capital motifs are done on buildings in Elektroprivreda. All thermal power plants did capital repairs from 2002 to 2012. Two hundred fifty megawatts of new power was installed in Tent. That's one whole block. What about the Japanese detachment loan? Serbia's most favourable credit can't be realised because someone wants to do something. Realise these loans, start the economy, hire people, and then there will be more money in the budget and there will be no need to impose this new impose on Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30513	Mr. Granny, on what grounds? (Zoran Babic, from the post: By amendment. ) According to the amendment, Mr Ivan Jovanovic also reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30514	Dear Minister, I have just heard the answer from you, and I thank you for paying the citizens for the final excise charge, and for the accounting force, so on the hired force, and for the cost of the public supplier, and for the compensation for the privileged producers. My amendment was to exclude electricity from these excises because it was not a well-prepared proposal, because the EU Directive says otherwise. That goes for the megawatt. They have one exception, which one country has an obligation to change in the next period. This amendment, which has been submitted by colleagues, differs from that amendment, which you have just commented on. I think it's essentially the same. The only thing I don't agree with is that we don't need tobacco products. I think that's reasonable, but this electrical energy isn't well prepared, it's not good for citizens and it's going to cost them a lot more than it would be if it were per megawatt, as it says in the EU directive. What's another position I wanted to discuss? I think that the government is trying in every way to introduce a new legislation to sort of charge additional money from both the economy and the citizens. On the other hand, when the same economy or the same citizen is to be respected, the law is not respected by the government itself. I referred you to the question six months ago, which I repeated three months ago, and on the matter of VAT write-offs for businessmen who were injured in floods, VAT on goods destroyed in those floods. I still haven't got the answer. The IRS is silent. These people have terrible problems, they have to run supplies of those goods that don't exist in fact, but there's no answer and that's how the state finances that reduced deficit. It's not a permanent thing, it's a temporary thing, because if the state doesn't meet its obligations to the economy and to the citizens, it's otherwise called. If the state doesn't make the payments it needs, then we should say it's called economics and finance and try something else. I don't think this imposition is going to contribute, we're not going to solve the problem, and the government is going deaf about all those demands when citizens are trying to exercise their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30515	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30516	Mr. Chairman, this amendment is not acceptable for the SNS because of the hypocrisy shown by a colleague who has explained and asked for support for this amendment. I think it is hypocritical and it is not allowed and it is not good to introduce excise duties, but it is good and allowed to increase electricity prices. All is well that they did, and it is allowed that on 1 March 2008, they increased the electricity price by 7.6%, so it is good that on August 1st of the same year, they did not remember enough to increase the price by an additional 8.4%, so on 1 March 2010, they increased the electricity price by 10%, so they increased the electricity price by 15.1% on 1 April. A colleague said earlier – you know, an increase in the price of electricity is allowed, and what they did is allowed. No one said it wasn't allowed, but then why didn't you worry about the existence of both the wallet and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Why didn't you put your finger on your forehead and say – people in Serbia have a hard time living? Even greater hypocrisy is to say – people lived excellently in 2009, so because they lived well, we increased their electricity price. I can't hear the answer – why did you pay for that increase in electricity prices, why did you pay for the 353 million dinar concerts? Why did you give the football club only once in one year 80 million years? Why did you spend 300 million to 500 million dinars in an EPS year alone for campaigns, marketing campaigns that only went through marketing agencies whose owners you are? Tell one person why you did it. And it's okay when electricity increases and it's okay to attack the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and when that money is poured into your pockets and into your marketing agencies. What explanation to make EPS advertise? Monopolies, the only company that distributes and charges electricity. The only one. The only player on our market. By 2012 in all possible media ads for EPS and only through one marketing agency. And look at the wonders of this marketing agency owned by the deputy president of the Democratic Party. And that's why the electricity price changes and it's allowed, as someone said, a colleague -- you know, it's legitimate, it's okay, it's allowed. For these reasons, it is necessary to increase the price of electricity. Investments. There's always some people in this room who are dicking someone and something else. Miskovic sold "Delta" "Deleza", and they say it is an investment. One company private to another private company, it's an investment. But there's only one thing I don't understand about so many of your investments how you managed to lose 400,000 jobs? Well, I guess the investments go to new factories, new productions, new jobs, more satisfied people. And you're boasting about some investments, and people in Serbia have lost their jobs. Four hundred thousand people lost their jobs. Four hundred thousand people lost their jobs, and you say Serbia is full of investment. Maybe you had some investments, maybe you built some buildings, cafes, companies, pastures, pastures don't build, buy, maintain, build. You may have had that, too, but the citizens of Serbia didn't feel it. Serbian citizens lived worse, Serbian citizens lost their jobs, you brought investments, and people in Serbia are increasingly unemployed. All the more without a job. It doesn't fit with each other, it doesn't make any sense. There's no truth to all that. It's hypocritical when you say it - it's allowed to increase the price of electricity, but it's not allowed to introduce excise duty. You know my neighbor in Vranjska Banja, he doesn't care if it's an increase in electricity or if it's excise. He knows he's gonna get a bill that's averaged by one count in a month for 300 and some dinars and I know it's hard for him. But I know that he believes that these three hundred and some dinars that he's going to issue on a monthly basis won't go to your concerts, he won't go to your football clubs, he won't go to your marketing campaigns, he won't go to your private pockets, he'll go to public finances. It will also go to place, from one pocket to another, because the budget is not the government's budget, it is not the budget of Aleksandr Vukic, Zoran Babic, Aleksandr Martinovic, but the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am grateful to them because they believe in a fair relationship with public finances and what is the confirmation of a fair and responsible relationship with the money that we have been entrusted with is an agreement with the International Monetary Fund. With the same International Fund you drove out of Serbia just to be able to boast of money and budget, only so you can use that budget in a pre-election campaign, just so you can use it to win the election. That's irresponsible, that's bad. We want an agreement with the IMF to get another confirmation of our country's stability. We want and we have made an agreement with the IMF because we are ready to control the spending of public finances, which you were never prepared to do because you are towards public finances and the state as you are toward your front, as is your grandfather's. It's not. Both the government and the state and the public finances are obtained on the revers, trust, and, as counterpart Martinovic said, we are ready and we want to make future generations, some new people, better than us, and much, much better than you, at least a better departure, more stable, more orderly, richer, to improve that. From you we left only dues, we got debts, we got public finances where in 2012 there was so much money that we only had for half a pension, for half a salary in the public sector. You left us public finances that were 15 days to total collapse and total bankruptcy. Now, no longer in Serbia, not to talk about it, but to space years we are away from bankruptcy because of brave politics, not populistly, because of responsible and fair relations, because of savings and not waste, because of those 80 cars in Kolubara compared to 350 and something that you've held, because no one has the advantage, and neither does Ken, because none of us have a buffer in Kolubara that digs 25 hours a day. Because of this relationship, although there are anomalies, although there is still plenty of room for progress, although there is plenty of room for savings, this government runs the state of Serbia, manages public finances in the right direction, and therefore SNS gives full support to this law, as we have done so far, but as we will do in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30517	Thank you, Mr. Granny. According to the amendment, MP Ivan Jovanovic appeared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30518	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to return the discussion to real things, not to worry about the past, because if it's any greater damage for the EPS to pay for football clubs or it's a greater shame that last year the elevator was built from the garage to the head of the office in the administration building of the EPS, it needs some other authorities to check and I hope they work because it's obvious that our corruption is getting bigger and it doesn't end. I think we're going back to the beginning, Mr. Vujovic, that it should stop, to break up with party management of serious public resources such as EPS so that citizens don't, after all, pay the calculated power, the excise on the accounting force, so that they don't pay the excise on the cost of the public supplier. Why is a citizen obliged to pay the cost of a public supplier? It's not supposed to be a public obligation. If we want to fill the budget and with those 18 billion, you have acknowledged it, Mr Vujovic, in his reply, that you are looking at the final account, the consumer's final account, and therefore you cut the percentage of those 17.5 billion, or to fill the budget for those 17.5 billion, and that's from the government's point of view because you can say – we're reducing the deficit, we're great, we're wonderful, but don't worry about whether citizens can still pay that, while not implementing the law and don't allow citizens to come to their rights. You ask them to obey the laws and ask them to pay their dues, but the state doesn't pay its dues and there's a problem. That's why, among other things, we have stagnation and recession. We don't have GDP growth. This is the country's problem, and we need to talk about how we're going to solve it, not about what some government did three or 13 years ago because it's really Serbian citizens no longer interested. We're all responsible for the current situation, and this three-year power, and the one that was before, but we need to find models that will allow us to get out of the existing situation. That's where the government should make proposals, not run away from these problems and put them on the backs of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30519	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30520	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Vujovic, I thank you for your frequent mention of the word "turn". However, given the fact that you were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, you can only be a sympathiser. When it comes to Article 3, the proposal is to delete it and not impose excise duties on electronic cigarettes. Why, Minister Vujovic? It is undeniable that electronic cigarettes do not have inactive smokers, or smokers. According to some analyses, the harmfulness of electronic cigarettes, I say by some analysis, is significantly smaller than regular cigarettes. You, by this measure, Mr Vujovicu, have in some ways also attacked the health of Serbian citizens, because some Serbian citizens chose less harmful cigarettes instead of classic cigarettes, less harmful to their environment. Instead of being of the interest of the Serbian state in some way, because 20,000 people die annually in Serbia as a result of active smoking or the result of passive smoking, and in 10 years, 200,000 people, instead of allowing those people to choose less evil in some way, no, you taxed them both and somehow referred them back to classic cigarettes, cigarettes they used earlier, and perhaps they were on the way to rehab, Mr Vujovic. What's the explanation? The two countries in Europe only introduced this kind of excise.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30521	I thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Time's up. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Jankov Veselinović, submitted to the 4th amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30522	Not only did the government impose excise duties on electricity, impose on citizens of Serbia, but it also managed to make certain discounts with this law, making it easier for authorised groups of citizens. In this case, diplomatic representations, embassies, ambassadors and embassy members who are excluded from paying excise duty on tobacco products, cigarettes and alcoholic beverages. The minister last time said it was just a correction of the previous member. Well, Minister, even if that were the case, you continued with bad practice, that those who are rich are exempt from excise duty, and those who are poor to introduce new excise duties. Why would someone be privileged not to pay excise duty on tobacco products and alcoholic beverages, and Serbian citizens, who can barely put an end to the end, pay for that obligation? What does that mean? This means that you only take care of those who are powerful, who have money, that they should have it even more, and the rest is hitting on the citizens. It is this member, which we consider unnecessary and we believe that you should give up the benefits of representatives of embassies, consuls, etc., because this is a corrupt option, the possibility that some other imports of these products as for embassies and consulates, and in fact will put them into further sale. You know, Mr. Vujovic, that you should stay away from the provisions that are highly corrupt. These provisions are highly corrupt and allow goods to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30523	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30524	One sentence, I'll answer both of your questions. We first did according to the proposal of professional services that are accompanied by the introduction of excise duties on all tobacco products and substitutions and there is no basis not to introduce us, just as everyone else does. As regards this fourth member who gives special status to diplomatic and consular representations and to those entities who have the right to so-called. Customs warehouses, we haven't changed the meaning of that member, we've just figured out the formulation. If Serbia would change that, then de facto would violate the reciprocity that all countries in the world have, which such a same status gives to our diplomatic and consular representations and to all other operators. Therefore, I do not think that Serbia should violate internationally adopted rules that are respected in all countries in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30525	I thank Minister Vujovic. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30526	This amendment is, of course, part of our eternal struggle to protect Serbian language, spelling and grammar. This time it was rejected by the argument that it is not a fundamental amendment, but that it is practically a language editorial and that this is the reason, regardless of why we are right about this amendment, why it should not be accepted as an amendment. That's the government's proposal to the Assembly. It is very interesting that several dozen such amendments have already been adopted, these amendments that protected Serbian language, spelling, grammar and writing style. Now I wonder if this has now come to my senses by rejecting these amendments, or if the government was smart before that, and now it's not, when it started to reject these amendments? The meaning of one word, one letter, one decimal is very large and it can essentially change the meaning of one text, and especially if it's laws, because the laws have to be absolutely accurate. Under the Constitution, laws must first and foremost be written in the official language and letter of this state, of course they can be translated into the language and letters of national minorities, but such behaviour by the very language written by the law introduces additional legal uncertainty in the life of Serbian citizens. There's no reason for one of these amendments to be rejected. Any fiction or anything that anyone can imagine in their head, so that falsely speaking here, will not correct illiteracy in the writing of the law, and that illiteracy has the consequence of legal uncertainty. I think it's nice for the minister to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30527	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30528	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I propose that the amendment be rejected, of course, this amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Here, as we can see, the language section in parliament is back active, the on-call lecturers are again dealing with interaction signs, commas, dots, etc. I predict a very successful career in that, a very successful future profession. So now they have a chance to prepare themselves well for the future profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30529	Please, Mr. Markovic, don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30530	Here, I'm moving on to the amendment. So we have already said that this amendment is not essential, that it does not treat the essence of this law, and that is what the proposings of this amendment have just confirmed, and I am going to call for the essential reasons to reject this amendment. The essence of the law is that this bill and these measures continue the programme, as we said, of active consolidation of public finances. I think these and similar measures lead to a reduction in the budget deficit by increasing the general revenues of the budget. So that's something we have to repeat several times because of the citizens of Serbia, that the most important thing is that this will represent a lasting and sustainable source of budgetary revenue. For these reasons, I propose that we pass this law, that we reject these and similar amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30531	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30532	I have looked at your amendment in detail once more, and I accept your amendment on my personal responsibility. Thank you very much. The government has submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. You have the word, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30533	Mr Vujovicu, you spoke of reciprocity a little earlier, perhaps there is no need to remind you of the reciprocity and disrespect of reciprocity in international law and how, let's say, that reciprocity is experienced by neighbouring Hungary when it raises the wall towards the Republic of Serbia. You think that what we might be deviating from the conventions, which would free diplomatic and consular representations from paying excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, to protect themselves from high corruption, and our country is at the level of corruption at the world's top. You think that this way we would injure international law. No, Mr Vujovicu would only adapt to social circumstances and the legal system in which Serbia is, or not, functioning of the legal system. Each country also has the right by international conventions to protect its vital values, and our vital value is to maintain a legal system, and this member is jeopardising the legal system, because one group is taking over and creating a high potential for corruption. So I don't think that we should get out of the framework of the international order, but the comparison that all other countries adhere to the blind rules of international law does not stick to that part that allows international law to protect its vital interests. We see how other countries do it and how that country does it, but how the countries that are your role model are Germany, America, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30534	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, respected guest from the ministry and respected Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Bečić, I have been very critical of the performance of Minister Vujovic this morning, first of all about our amendment to Article 2, but now I just want to congratulate Minister Vujovic, who himself has done one thing that is expected of every man who sits in the large hall of the National Assembly, which is that in our action we adhere to the spelling of the Serbian language. Congratulations now and to Minister Vujovic, which took responsibility, despite SNS MPs' views and accepted another amendment to the party. Minister Vujovicu, our amendment to Article 6 is the same thing as the amendment to Article 4. It is necessary, gentlemen, that, in a certain place, following words exclusively from the first article's position, it is added to a comma. I just have to say here, it's not something that matters, language is also a matter of essence, and I think it would be okay for Minister Vujovic to accept this amendment to Article 6. It's a bill of law. He, Minister, is not about the content of our amendment to Article 2 which changes what is the meaning of your amendment to the law, but we want what is adopted here as a bill, in terms of grammar and in terms of spelling to be absolutely correct. I think it is okay for Minister Vujovic to now accept this amendment of this party, it would be the second accepted amendment of the seven amendments we have submitted to this bill by now. So I expect you to say that you will accept this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30536	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30537	To be precise, because of everyone in the O.R., it means that after the extraordinary attitude of the 1st member, it is accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30538	Thank you. I find that Minister Vujovic has accepted the amendment as a representative of the government. Here you go. Replica, MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30539	Never with SNS was a problem to admit and correct, I think it's the job of all of us. However, what is controversial is legitimacy, because when someone in this hall uses, which is thus boasting about their knowledge of Serbian language and spelling, and using the hall to describe another colleague with cattle, scum, garbage, character. When in the O.R., or in the central hall, compares his colleagues to his horses. When giving him different epithets and the Prime Minister, and I could give him the epithet of a Roman emperor who set Rome on fire, only this one set the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on fire, then that's a problem for both counterpart Aleksandr Markovic and SNS. If one wants to present himself as a type of spell or at least nice behavior, one should not measure when one of the MPs, a colleague will shower or use a deodorant, because in the same way I could ask when he discovered the pumpkins or the sprays spoken of by Mr. Marijan Rističević or about such things. They'd be vulgarizing the National Assembly. Every correction, anything that leads to a better and better text is acceptable to the SNS, but such a term and expressions that come and come from only one fellow MP here in the room are for every conviction and other MPs from which the parliamentary groups were, but also the Serbian public, for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30540	Thank you. The word is Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30541	Dear colleagues, after Babic's discussion, I have to say something about it, and I didn't mean to say it. Well, I don't agree with my colleague, Babic, that it's a nice education or a questionable reason why someone doesn't have to or won't respect spelling. I just called about it. Let me say, I totally agree that everything has to be in line with our language and our spelling. I'd just like to point out to my colleagues a little something. Very often they say the decimal instead of the comma. There's no point in our spelling, and we call that sign stuck. And the other thing I said, being rude, whether I know it or not, doesn't mean that it doesn't have to be expressed in our language and that it respects spelling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30542	I thank Dr Stojmirovic. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 7th Amendment. You have the word, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30543	With this article, dear Mr Vujovic, you gave another privilege, another category. You corrected, added the advantage of the existing and gave the possibility to airlines and shipping companies to use alcoholic beverages, cigarettes without excise stamps, no excise duties. You don't bring any laws to Mr. Vujovic and the Government without giving any privileges to any of you dear faces physically or legally. It's Etihad, obviously it's visible. So when you drink alcohol in the planes of that company, there's no need to pay for the excise. What's he gonna do? Well, they'll pay the citizens of Serbia when they cook soup, when they bake eggs to a child or when they cook milk. It's a system, Mr. Vujovicu, which you accepted. I don't know if it's the kind of system you've worked in before. I know you have a rich experience in other countries. However, you came here, thinking that Serbian citizens have the money to pay for your experiments, Mr. Vujovicu, by taxing and imposing excise duties on basic life products and reducing their wages. It's just not possible. We hear what's going on in Nis. People are shutting down from central heating, and tomorrow they're going to be cut off from power. When you tax water and air, it will likely be excluded from these vital foods.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30544	Time. I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word has been given by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30545	Thank you, Your Honor. I might not have answered if I hadn't been encouraged by a discussion like this, as someone now regrets people who bake eggs, cook milk, and over 100 percent have collected electricity from us, in a very bad way, by never having a debate in parliament. At least we say, yes, we will introduce excise duty, because it is an obligation from the EU, which they are supposed to advocate. So this is an obligation under the directive that is required, but they never wanted to do it, but they did it in a corrupt way at the government's phone sessions to increase the price of electricity and so they did it, that the EPS led us to a debt of 400,000 dinars. That's how much he was in 2012, the EPS as a monopoly business was down. Since they didn't mean parents who roasted an egg or cooked milk, when monopoly companies managed to bring bankruptcy, and such an original thing didn't work out for anyone in the world, and really now this lamentation, allegedly, over the heavy fate of someone who bakes an egg or cooks milk, it doesn't make any sense, especially when it's said that passengers on Air Serbia planes would be drinking alcohol. You're the one who led to a terrible minus, that we threw insane money every year to save JAT.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30546	Mr. Djukanovic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30547	Of course. It's just that when we talk about this amendment, it was your turn to warn a short-time speaker, so that it really doesn't bring up this kind of untruth. Those who are our businesses and businesses, who have a monopoly character and who still have, led to minuses, to chaos, to bankruptcy, have no right to talk about how parents are going to roast a baby's egg today, or how they're supposed to cook milk, because they just led to their parents not having a child today and not buying that egg or buying that same milk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30548	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30549	Just for a little while, again, this is about repeating the formulations that are contained in the laws of all countries, and as far as I know, companies, ships, planes, this is not specifically defined by anyone. They're companies that usually have a choice where they buy, where they're going to tank fuel, where they're going to buy cigarettes, where they're going to buy everything. Therefore, if we do not give such a advantage, they will buy it in Frankfurt, Munich, Vienna, and I think it is better to buy it with us. Because they have an external status, they do, as you know, these boxings have to be closed down, all of them, when they enter into Serbia's airspace, and it doesn't enter our market, it doesn't interfere with our market, that's what all countries do, and so we suggest we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30550	Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30551	Thank you. I picked up a few minutes ago for the replica, but it doesn't matter. So this is also about suppressing possible corruption. When, Mr. Vujovicu, we're saying that we're suigeneris, that we have a high level of corruption, we have to pass laws that will be applicable here without disrupting the market. You know, Mr Vujovic that in Serbia 90, up to 90% of intellectual property rights are on the black market. You know how much goods are on the black market, Mr. Vujovic. You know how many cigarettes and alcohol are on the black market. This opens up that possibility. On the other hand, when prices were raised in an earlier period, as I just said, electricity, electricity, then the wages grew. Salaries grew faster than electricity prices, and this is what the bills looked like during your government, during the coalition there two thousand years ago, eight zeroes, it was about one other time. Electricity prices rose after 2000, it is true, but salaries from zero euros, or marks, came to 350 to 400 euros and that is 400%. Prices and electricity went up, and now electricity prices are going up, and wages and pensions are going down. That's the problem, gentlemen, the problem is that you don't have a concept, which you only have a way of raising and creating incentives for citizens of Serbia, and you don't have a model, you don't have a capable minister, you don't have a man in the government who knows how to increase productivity, how to hire people, but only these people, who can barely put an end to the end, introduce new commitments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30552	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30553	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I listen to the previous speaker, the doctor, the professor, I ask myself, "Who has poored and robbed this people?" Today, the poor and robbed people are most told by those who robbed him. I believe that they know the subject well enough, but I also believe that citizens can't believe it, regardless of that sign that stands up when a colleague who spoke before me and who as a doctor of legal science doesn't know the difference between the political movement and the association of citizens. Finally, Mr. Chairman, you will allow, since this is a solution from the Agency for Business Registers, you will allow them to be signed by companies from which they come or by tycoon companies that robbed this country. I agree that excise is not popular, but that it is necessary. Why? Because the state has been thoroughly robbed, impoverished, etc. It would be easy for me to take care of the poor who were spoken of by my former colleague, Dr legal science who performs as a performer, one Dr. Legal Science knows no difference between political registers, political party registers and political movements and the Agency for Economic Registers. We could easily take care of those poor, but we can't take care of their rich, their lame, those tycoons who got rich while they ruled. We can't feed them at all. They'd easily wear, wear and feed the poor, but we can't feed the rich and the loose, because they're never enough, their hand is always out, come on, come on, come on, come on. I'll only describe one case. The government of Mirko Cvetkovic, supported by my previous speaker, gave 15,000 tonnes, bought 15,000 tonnes of sugar for 1.2 billion at 80 dinar, and today the price is high sugar, 50 dinars. In 2011, she bought about possible shortages in the future, 15,000 tonnes of sugar from their former financial director of the former regime's party. She bought it so she gave it both money and sugar. He got 1.2 billion, but he kept the sugar, because they paid for his warehouse. Did he talk about this poor people, who received 1.2 billion from the government from the budget without delivering sugar to this day? Today's sugar price is 50 din. And the government is already at a loss of about 700,000 dinars. Do we not feed those rich and greedy, since they are created, when they are created in the period when they rule and today rule in Vojvodina, and here they talk about the robbed and the poor? I agree there are, but their participation in the poverty and looting of these people is immeasurable. Whoever believes from the citizens that they'll be brought into the better tomorrow by those who robbed them yesterday, he's mature for a psychiatrist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30554	Thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30555	And this amendment is part of the century-long struggle for Serbian spelling and grammar. In the third row of the second line, the inserted sentence begins, which is, in accordance with Article 19, point 1. 1) and 4) of this law, and it is not put "stuck" there, as Mr Ljubisa Stojmirović has rightly said, who gave a good interpretation of the behavior of one part of his colleagues, so, without going into the essence of the law, we think Mr Pavicevic and I think it is polite and that it is okay to accept this amendment in order to have a pure language to which our laws should be written, even when they are essentially not good. Some colleagues who were involved in assessing who was brought up and who used what word, have a few folk proverbs. One reads: pop pop, and a beans. The second is, not the mother of the son who gambles, but what is taken out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30556	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30557	Whatever this means, I have to admit it seemed really stupid, but okay, whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30558	Please, Mr. Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30559	I don't just know what the point of this is, you could have done it somewhere on the board or how some technical editorial if you care so much about spelling, but there's serious stuff here, because it's really trying to be serious about Parliament, because here when we listen to amazing things, it says, it's, it's picking up electricity, but the wages have grown. I've never heard such original nonsense in my life because the pay, you know, can grow, but if you increase the business activity of the state and you have some real source, and you've paid the wages in the public sector by raising your loans and borrowing the country, and that's what's terrible. You used to be in the same party with Mr. Djelic, who publicly boasted that he had raised a loan to pay salaries and pensions. It's really something that has nothing to do with the truth. You lied to people, and you actually destroyed the economy and you increased people in 2008 wages and pensions on completely unrealistic grounds and you brought the country almost to bankruptcy, so in 2012, when we came and found the situation in the state, you realized that you might have to pay your salaries and pensions for another month or two days. That's how you run the country, and thank God, that opportunity will never come to you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30560	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30561	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll say very briefly, I believe that my fellow farmer understands the cube and that his proverb is from his own experience and that it is true. I'll just say that with all these demands that we've heard all the amendments, I'll say something about excises. Accizes are about to be introduced into excise products, this time and into electricity. Mostly the most excises are collected in the state on tobacco and alcohol. There's a sign on tobacco and alcohol, and there's always a sign that they're harmful to their health. Some people have no “damage, ” and among them there are such pests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30562	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 10th amendment. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30563	This amendment also concerns the fact that, Mr Vujovicu, you have taxed what is better for health, or imposed excise duties on what is better for the health of Serbian citizens, so that Serbian citizens spend a product that is more harmful to their health and their environment. So, you taxed less harmful electronic cigarettes so that your British American friends, whose co-owner is an influential politician, would have more traffic and that's a fact. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Name and last name. We had similar examples in this congregation. Very often, the companies involved in the production of tobacco products had lobbyists here. We don't have a law on lobbying, but it's more than obvious, Mr. Vujovic, that this is in their favor.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30564	Please, Mr. Veselinović, I know that at all costs you want to draw attention to yourself and your Movement, but don't insult the members of the government who came as guests to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30565	What's up, Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30566	I ask you to keep talking about your amendment and the reasons why you're asking this member to be deleted, about this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30567	Therefore, electronic cigarettes are less harmful, especially for the environment of those with whom it is used, for children, for youth, etc., than classic cigarettes, and I do not think that excise duty should have been imposed on these products in this respect. On the other hand, I'm just afraid that in the register of NGOs and associations that a community of Serb municipalities...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30568	If I'm supposed to give you a comment on a sentence that you just said, then, I don't think that's necessary. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30569	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't quite understand the leader of this association of the PRECRET Movement, I didn't quite understand, but I heard, I don't know if you heard the chairman say British Tabaca co-owner was a domestic politician? I would like to discuss this and to know that, given the privatisations of Vranja and Nis were carried out from 2000 to 2003, it was actually done in the weather, or during "Sablje". I would like to know which politicians have installed themselves, which is why I would like this leader of the association in this House to tell us who politicians have put themselves into the property of the Vranje industry, because there has been privatisation of British Tabaco, and this would be very interesting given that excise duties are on the agenda and that such co-owner can provide political opportunities and political difficulties on the tobacco market and that he can educate excises as he wishes, if the co-owner is sufficiently influential, that politician who is co-owner of the British Tabaka...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30570	I beg you, Mr. Risticevic, on this subject with Mr. Janko Veselinović outside this hall... (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: he said to Becic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30571	You don't understand, I'm talking about excise. Wait, Mr. Becic, I'm talking about excises. So, if that's true, then there can be influence in this law too, excises can be determined in a variety of ways. I believe he meant the former prime minister who was from 2003 to 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30572	Thank you. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30573	In Article 10, we suggest that Article 30(1) be amended in a way that also erases electrical energy, i.e. fuel in this case, because the amendments to the law at the end of 2013, if I am not mistaken, was introduced and was fuel and was liquid as excise goods, which is why I have already cited in the principle debate at the beginning of this, completely unreasonable and unacceptable. Biofuel has its economic justification, biofuel production and biofuel consumption, and on the other hand has its great justification in terms of environmental protection. This treatment of biofuels and bioliquids achieves completely the opposite objectives set as the objective of this law. Rather than fuel producers and consumers are stimulated because of what they're doing, because the fuel was plant residues, especially the third and fourth-generation fuels are leftovers of some biological content or even new biological products, instead of going to reduce the consumption of exhaustive energy sources, we here have a penalty for these people. In an explanation of the refusal, it says, if the minister hears me, that what is necessary is to register producers, in order to prevent abuses. If you want to record, then place an excise or other measure of 0% or 0.1%, and not make it 50 dinars per litre of fuel, as is now the case.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30574	Thank you. Members of the 11th Amendment in the same text were submitted by the MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, joint MPs Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićevic, joint MPs Boris Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Goran Ćirić, Jovan Marković, Jovana Jovanovic, Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Dragan Šutanovic, Balša Božović, Vesna Martinović and Aida Ćorović and joint MPs Marko Đurić, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaže Bradić. Mr. Sutanovac, you are right, but before you came forward, Mr. Vesenovic. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30575	So, this amendment requires that the Excise Act be withdrawn, i.e. the amendment to the Excise Act, which for the first time in Serbia's history since the introduction of electricity into the "Hamburg" pub in Belgrade, 100 and a few years ago, when the first light bulb in Belgrade, Mr Vujovic, was lit up, you impose an impose on what Nikola Tesla and many others were working on. You consider it a luxury, you believe that Serbian citizens should give up electricity, such as giving up heating in Serbia's cities, as they gave up everything that is not bread and milk, even creating a problem for them to cook that milk. So, Mr Vujovicu, it would be moral for you to either withdraw this law from the procedure or resign, Mr Vujovic, because all you have done so far is to burden the citizens of Serbia. They can't stand it, Mr. Vujovicu, nor the people whose salary has been cut, nor those who have lost their jobs, nor the pensioners you've reduced your salary to. Mr. Vujovicu, withdraw this law or you withdraw. This would be the only solution so that you would be moral and not suffer the consequences of all those who will vote for this law, even if they owe electricity to more than a million dinars, even if they steal electricity as some MPs are likely to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30576	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30577	Pull this law out of the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30578	Thank you. But it's also correct when you mention an MP to say his name and name. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30579	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is the last amendment submitted by the DS parliamentary group. You're witnessing that we've submitted only essential amendments. I am taking the opportunity to appeal to you for the second time to re-examine your decision not to withdraw this one, for us a radical and bad law, which will further endanger what is most important, which is the citizens of Serbia and their budget and their standard of living. You asked a question -- what do we propose, what would we do, how did we get into this situation? I think it's high time that, Mr. Minister, as a man of obvious courage, because I assume it's not easy for you to sit here today. Usually when such laws are with the prime minister, many more ministers are sitting and protecting him in some way from the attack. You're here alone today, and a distinguished colleague, but I think you're alone as a minister. Well, gather courage and introduce a progressive tax on those who are rich in Serbia today at the expense of employees. Introduce the wrong profit tax. Make a step in the direction of not increasing the price of electricity they don't have, but charge those who do. This is the fundamental difference between the policy implemented by this government, the government that cares primarily about the Republic of Serbia's budget and the deficit, does not care about the citizens, and those who are rich today in Serbia have no fear in any way, as an increase of 7.5% of the excise and 4.5% of the increase in electricity means absolutely nothing in life. Essentially, Mr. Minister, it would be essential that you tell us that because of the recession and the decline of the social product, the budget came into such a situation that we have to introduce excise duties. That would be the most honest thing to hear from you, and then to discuss why we came to such a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30580	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30581	I thank you again, Mr. Minister. Everything we said wasn't personal. It's all strictly professional and I believe you'll think about it a little bit more, so maybe you'll even listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30582	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30583	Thank you. You know how, maybe those in the EU hate their citizens, so they ordered them to introduce an electricity excise. They probably don't stand for their countrymen, all those countries, who, otherwise, introduced it by the EU directive in Brussels. Explain to us whether you are to enter or not to join the EU, as this was adopted in 2003. It's something else that you've been avoiding just secretly in government sessions and phone sessions. But this is something that is our obligation after all. I don't know, then tell us openly that you're not up for Serbia's entry into the EU, we don't mind. What's very important here and what has to be pointed out, Mr. Becic, is the fact that we haven't built a single minefield in all times of government, not one power plant. Nothing's been invested in the EPS. The only thing that's invested, it's in increasing the administration. That's why we're in a position to, for example. The EPS, as a monopoly company, is sponsored by a football club that had to wear on its EPS uniforms, although no one understands why EPS sponsored a football club and what the commercials would do, after all, since it has such a monopoly. We also don't understand when someone leaves such a company that has a 400 million-dollar monopoly, where you first want to talk about how someone's trying to introduce new provisions to the citizens. Perhaps this new imposition would not have been if you EPS had prepared for the market, since in 2011 or 2012 you passed a law under which private electricity distributors will now be present and going to the market. You've done nothing to prepare the EPS for such a thing, and you've passed such a law because you wanted to agree on some votes right in Brussels, whose directive you won't respect. Therefore, that hypocrisy of yours really goes to incredible limits. I must admit that I don't understand, and no one can catch you anymore what you are, whether you're for EU entry, whether you're for factory workers, whether you're for self-government socialism, whether you're for raw capitalism, God knows what you're talking about here today and what you stand for. In any case, this is something that is somewhat extorted, but also our commitment to the EU itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30584	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Marko Djurisic, the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30585	Thank you. I will try again through the debate under this amendment to point out the harmfulness of the introduction of electricity excises, which will lead to an increase in electricity prices for citizens of 12.34% on average, as the minister said, and by 12.34% or an average of 325 dinars per household will reduce the budget of each household in the Republic of Serbia. It is again heard here that this obligation is made to comply with the rules in the Republic of Serbia with EU rules all the time, as if we don't want to hear that electricity excise is possible under EU rules, but not the obligation, that a number of countries have no excise duty at all, that a number of countries have imposed excise duties, but that rate is zero and that it seems only to me that 10 out of 28 EU countries charge electricity excises, meaning less than half. At the beginning of the debate, I asked that we not use the EU's argument and Eurointegration as imposing this obligation, because it simply does not stand, does not stand and is not fair to justify this decision in this way. The decision must be made because Serbia committed itself to this agreement with the IMF, which was the same programme and had with the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2009, 2010 and 2011, in the years when the worst things, as we hear in this debate, were done in the economy of the Republic of Serbia. There's just one logical connection missing. If this was the worst time, and the IMF mission has been working all along with the government of the Republic of Serbia on measures that during the worst economic crisis in the 21st century, the global economic crisis has hit the whole world, including the Republic of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia at the time worked with the IMF to stabilise the situation in the Serbian economy. Then heavy measures were taken and Serbia's economy was preserved under these difficult circumstances. There's only one year of GDP decline. In all other years there was growth, there was an increase in investment, there were opening new factories and negotiating for new factories that had been completed in the previous two years. Anyone who doesn't believe can go to Kragujevac to see "Fiat", can go to Pirot, can go to Old Paz, to Subotica, to Leskovaca to see what's agreed, realised at the time. What can he see that's agreed, realized in the last three years? He can see the billboard “Biograda on Water” and the model “Biograda on Water. ” You, Minister, when we talked about the project "Belgrade on Water", said it would launch us into a whole other sphere. The "Belgrade on Water" project, as we heard, when the contract was concluded, should finally be implemented for the next 30 years. Thirty years, not four or ten, as we listened here. We heard that this investment is worth three billion dollars, euros, whatever, and we finally saw that it was 150m euros in partner investment and 150m credits that we took from partners as a state of Serbia. Where is this huge economic growth that "Belgrade on Water" will bring us? He's gone. What do we have where this project should be realized? We don't have anything. After three years of talking, we have nothing. That's the problem, Minister, this government. There are no active measures to lead to the growth of business activities in Serbia. Every year, every three-month data gets worse and worse. The decline in industrial production is constant. You justified it last year with floods. Now that it measured the first quarter of this year, with last year, there was no flood, 7.7% is the smaller industrial production this year. There was no flood. I hope, of course, it won't be. You can't just take care of the budget deficit as some isolated category. The budget represents the state in one country, as the state has developed, how effective it is in charging its claims, how it spends money, how it collects and what economy it is in that country. You can see that through the budget. We're talking about reducing the deficit. In what way? Reduce salaries and pensions, and introduce excise duties and additional burden on citizens. Where are the active measures to increase income, better tax collection, greater economic activity? It's not there. Only stabilising the budget will not lead to Serbia's economic development. I repeat, you yourself said, 3.7 billion approved loans for projects that Serbia does not realise. Why isn't it realising? Who's been responsible for this for three years? In three years, you could have found someone who could have realized it. So, on these things, this government is falling. You yourself said this was a state of budget temporarily, based on a temporary character. Twenty-eight billion is no longer tax revenues, incomes now charged, and the question is whether next year they can count on the budget. Eight billion less on investments spent in the first five months. You didn't say if it would be compensated by the end of the year. We were asking here how subsidies are paid to farmers, and you said -- it's late because the administration is moving from Capca to Belgrade, so there's been a stalemate. How late is it with the return of VAT to businesses in Serbia and does that money then prove to be the surplus we are talking about? What better way for citizens to live because of that minor deficit, not to say surplus, because it's not there. There's only a shortage of deficits, which is good, of course. You said yourself that this measure is for structural stabilisation of the budget, but there's no measure anywhere, here for a year, that they need to increase GDP. These measures won't lead to that. They can only lead to the opposite. Yeah, people, because they have less and less money, they spend less and less, and things fall down on the inside. So this is one side and it would make sense if you were working on this other side. It's not working on the other side, Mr. Minister. There are no government measures, no results, and that is why we cannot support what has been proposed today. If there was growth on this other side, maybe all of this would make sense. This way we're just putting the budget in danger to collapse into itself, to make things very quickly turn up. Of course, I have no doubt that this new impose on the Serbian citizens' budget will be adopted. We'll see if that's the end of the victim, as you said, which citizens should bear, to be rewarded, whether this is the last adjustment that citizens need to endure, to be rewarded, and to be given the chance to at least live a little better, since in the last three years, from month to month, year to year, they live worse and worse. That trend to reverse, that's what we expect of you. We believe that this measure, as proposed, without some other measures will not lead to this change, that the trend of impoverishment will continue. Maybe our budget will look great on paper, but citizens won't live any better than that. It is our obligation to talk about it here and responsibility for what we say to be in line with the policy we advocate, to be responsible for the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30586	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30587	Of course, this amendment requires that Article 11 be deleted. Proposal for a law amending the law, which means erasing practically the entire chapter 12g – electricity with members from 40z to 40n. It is clear in the debate that the introduction of electricity excise duty has nothing to do with harmonisation with the EU, has nothing to do with IMF requirements, has nothing to do with the consolidation of the budget. Question – then why is it done? The answer is very simple. It is an opportunity to introduce a new burden on poor citizens of Serbia to create budgetary conditions, to return, that is, to say falsely increase pensions and salaries in the public sector, and to do so in the autumn of this year, right before the elections that await us. It's a very transparent strategy, tactics, if you can call it that. A 140m-euro inflow is expected at an annual level, and this comes to around 40m by the end of the year if it is not wrong. That's just enough to keep the easy promise that the salaries and pensions will be paid back to the level from which the salaries are unreasonable, and pensions illegally reduced at the beginning of this year or at the end of last year, I don't remember anymore. That's the whole idea of this. I think it's good that the citizens of Serbia know what this is about. So, everyone will be taxed, so that the civil servants, first of all these brought in, will get more pay back.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30588	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marijan Rističević after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30589	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that the leader of the NGO is currently out of the O.R., but as my fellow farmer insists on spelling, I must warn you that this was said here by the leader of the NGO, it was said to the pensioners whom you cut your salary. He is a doctor, a professor, a doctor of legal science, but I don't understand what pensioners are getting. If he wasn't a representative of the NGO, I wouldn't know that pensioners are getting paid, I'd think they're getting a pension. Also, when my fellow farmer insists on spelling mistakes, it was time to warn the leader of the NGO, because speaking to the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, he said - the honourable president. He could have told the esteemed president, but given those grammatical mistakes that are very obvious, I'm concerned about the schooling of the students he teaches. He's not here, so I can't ask him again to tell me -- which politician has built into co-ownership of "British Tabaka," but I will...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30590	Please, Mr. Risticevic, return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30591	Mr. Chairman, the gentleman I'm talking about when he explained his amendment said a lot of things that didn't fit in with the amendment and I'm just trying to interpret what he wanted to ask us and what he wanted to tell us. He asked us to tell him which leader had politically installed himself in "British Tabako". Since he said it, I believe that he as a professor, a doctor of law, a professor at the university, has legal elements, facts, etc. But I will ask Mr. Martinovic - Mr. Martinovic if he wins the NGO, I ask you, since it is an NGO to translate into Serbian, can this NGO form a government?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30592	Please, Mr. Risticevic, you cannot address another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30593	I addressed the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and I expect an answer from him. I apologize to you for not telling you that I am addressing the President for constitutional matters and legislation and I expect him and the answer and that he is honoring himself for getting rid of such a member as Dr. Janko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30594	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. No, thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30595	Dear Chairman, you just heard something like the entire assembly, and you're denying me if it isn't true. The draft amendment accused the current government of introducing these electricity excises to return, right, salaries and pensions to some earlier level and accusing us of it, and then criticising, on the other hand, that these salaries and pensions had been cut earlier. Now I don't know what these people are for? Is it for the civil servants to be reduced or paid back, but it would be good to finally explain to us what they're actually criticizing here? I can't get hold of them for what their final attitude is. Why? Because, the Honorable Chairman, it is currently being fought at the level of the world's great battle for Greece. In Greece, wages and pensions, not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector, were reduced by 40%. If they were the others, we would have experienced Greece. We would definitely have experienced Greece if they had continued with the policy they had. Instead of any of them being asked – and on the basis of which we raised the salaries and pensions in the public sector, which was a real source of income, instead of raising credits to the unconscious and borrowing the state to the unconscious, they now, I don't know, what they're criticising, whether we want to pay people back their salaries and pensions or why we took it off people. I'm asking them to make a deal once so we can know what and what's right for them at all. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30596	I thank Mr. Djukanovic. Word has minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30597	I have a very short time, so I'm going to try to be very specific. First, let's talk about who's responsible for what. My duty is the fiscal side. My duty is to restore confidence in the financial sector, to reduce interest margins that are currently 6% or 7%, if everything else was great in this country, investment would be hard to go. We're getting ready to do a loan resolution that's not being serviced. The current assessment is of all assets in all banks and will be the basis for the financing of the financial sector. I think by healing the budget, we'll end the fiscal consolidation, we'll do what we're expected to do. Everyone should do what's in his domain. Thus, we will create for our children, our fellow citizens, regardless of party colors and the perception of our problems the best conditions for the future, create conditions for economic growth, for new jobs, for new jobs, for returning Serbia to the path of growth and development. Third-generation investment. When we sold the market in 2000 and before, we could sell it under imperfect conditions. Everyone will buy you a tobacco factory and a cement factory because it buys the market, buys safe sales. To come the third generation investment that buys Serbia as a centre for the Balkans and a world that valorises our comparative advantages, which are companies that valorise human capital in Serbia and the comparative advantages that we have in the metal sector, in the agros sector and possibly many other sectors in the future will come only when we have conditions. We're working parallelly not only on financial sector reform, to improve the so-called. investment environments. In four key areas, we've made progress. It could have been done before, but it's been done for the past 12 months. The law on building permits, not to specify the name of the law now, the change in the conditions of obtaining electricity, the change in the conditions of paying taxes. We're trying to cross over...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30598	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30599	I can't answer half an hour of their discussion in such a short time. Then I'll give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30600	You're right, Mr. Minister, but I must respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Mr. Minister, you'll be able to follow the next amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30601	Your Honor, I've wanted to hear it all the way, so I hope you'll finish your explanation. I proposed an amendment to which, since it is clear that the Government will not withdraw this proposal from the procedure, I thought to bring it into line with the European Commission's Directive 2003/96 in the sense that excise duty is being paid according to spent electricity. Here I suggested that it be a minimum price of 120 dinars, as much as one euro, per megawatt hour. I also suggested that the position in the directive be used to introduce exceptions when it comes to humanitarian social institutions, educational institutions, I also stated in the amendment, that such institutions should not pay excise duties. Unfortunately, the government has rejected this proposal and the simple explanation that I have received for refusing this amendment is in full colluding with the reasons that apply to the bill itself. You say in the refusal of this amendment that it is not accepted because the definition of fissus is that such a proposed legal solution creates conditions for the implementation of a programme relating to fiscal consolidation, i.e. that such a legal solution will ensure a more stable flow of excise resources into the Republic budget and an economical consumption of electricity. It is clear that you have introduced this burden to the citizens in order to provide these 17 billion missing RS budgets and that it does not matter now how electricity consumption is. I was just explaining on a citizen's account. So, if my proposal applies, a citizen who spends 386 kilowatt hours would pay 46 dinars a month, and according to your proposal, 176,94 dinars will be paid more based on electricity excises. Why? Because every citizen, even one who does not consume electricity, who has only a household count, will pay for accounting power in kilowatts, or an employed power of nearly 500 dinars. So 473 dinars are engaged forces, and that citizen will pay excise duty on the hired force, to the force defined by Serbia's Elektroprivreda. It's a road one nonsensical legislative. Then, he now pays 121,29 dinars the cost of a public supplier. He'll pay the excise on the cost of a public supplier. That's really pointless. Even when it's read, it sounds pointless. It was much better if you were already referring to the directive, if you had applied it as it says in the directive, and then it would have been better for the citizens. This is how we have excuses. Then, compensation for privileged producers. Also, the citizens who pay them subsidies, and that's fine, are paid subsidies for those who produce green energy, but why are these same citizens now paying for the same subsidy paid to them? It is another nonsensical complete and it is certain that there have been better solutions and more favourable for the citizens. Because, Mr. Minister, if you want to stimulate less consumption and save the economy and the citizens, then you should have done it by calculating spent kilowatts, because it's perfectly logical that one who spends more and pays more. This rate will be the most paid by those who spend the least and those who don't spend at all. If we look at how many kilowatts they've spent, we'll spend the most on those who don't spend anything at all. Therefore, it is clear that they will be charged, even if they do not spend, the excise duty on employed power, the excise duty on electricity costs will be charged, the excise duty on privileged producers will be charged. If you had defined it as being paid by consumption, these users would not have paid compensation if they did not spend kilowatts, but would have paid those who spend a lot more, but I think it is certainly more just in the case of Serbia. This is how I think we've brought the citizens into one situation to be the service of a country that spends a lot of money, which is inadequate and which is expensive. On the other hand, Serbia's Elektroprivreda does not get anything of this. I think Elektroprivreda is in a difficult situation. We'll see when that financial report on the business of Elektroprivreda is announced at the end of the month. I don't think it's great if you look at the financial results and the balances from last year and last year, and that's certainly not in line with what's heard in the media. The bottom line is that we have one system that can't bring benefits to the state in this way, and citizens on the other hand are burdened with the costs of an expensive party state and it's now far more than it was in any year before and it's quite clear. In a situation where we have a recession and a fall in GDP, I think it is a completely wrong way to fill the Republic of Serbia's budget, to impose on citizens, because you yourself admitted that investments are falling. If we have last heating season, where we have a big city in Serbia without electricity for a whole month, it is clear that investment maintenance is not being realised and that this is one of the causes of the collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30602	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Here you go. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30603	Thank you very much. To start with your last comment, I've been back to that three times today. Here, I'm looking at an account, it's probably similar to your account. This is where the method of reckoning hasn't changed in decades. So, the EPS can consider how to do it differently, but the EPS charges a fixed cost on the network, because it has to keep the network under effort, maintain the network, read the numbers and the rest. All the problems you've listed are quite clear to me, and it all has to be checked, to see the remote reading and everything else. Today it's like this, the bill goes - fixed cost, plus the supplier, plus the tariffs everything, so the line is drawn, the total cost of electricity, so 20% of VAT is applied to it. We'll just add here to the VAT more excise. It's the simplest way and includes the total cost. At the level of the average niche does not change, and at the level of individual consumers, those who do not have a large fixed cost, i.e. A little power consumption, they'll have to pay for the hired power, as the EPS maintains both the numerators and the network and everything else. If you had thea stove, so you have 30 kilowatts of installed power, you'll have to pay for it or cancel it, so just go back to TV if you use remote heating. Some people still hold 35-40 kilowatts today, and they don't spend it at all, and EPS has to hold so much power, so much wire for all these households. Second question. We're going back. Someone mentioned growth. Yes, the total industry has poor dynamics, but the processing industry is 3.5% growth after the first quarter and after four months. What brings the entire industry down? These are coal production and electricity production. We expect in July, when it was the biggest fall, that what was returned would show growth. The growth rates are revised from -0.5% to 0, and now we're talking about 0.2 and 0.5%. If Smederevo, if the chemical complex and all the factories that need to start working after privatisation, make the minimum that is expected of them, we expect that the growth rate will be +0.5% and perhaps more. But it's old growth. I expect the biggest growth in services, where we prepare third-generation investments. There won't be big producers until we get the NPLs in the banks, until we take care of the financial sector, until we cut the interest margins from 6-7% to 1.5-2%, as it is everywhere in the world, and only if we do fiscal consolidation and consolidation of banks and solve all macro things. The most important thing is that the total investment increases 4.4%. The fact that public investment is so late, as we've already found, is only reducing, would be even bigger if we were to realise in the public sector. Why aren't we realising this? You can guess that. Because we're not well organized, because construction operations and the state aren't organized enough. That's where we totally agree. Don't argue about things we agree on. It's just, it's not easy to do so many things one move at a time. That's what we all do. We have a five-year journey ahead of us to get it back, but the first step is the hardest and we realize it. What's most important to me is that in that part that's my responsibility with the projected 191 billion, which we talked about here until six in the morning, we planned 107 billion deficits at the end of June, and we are currently at 24 billion. I expect 30 by the end of the month. We'll be 75-76 billion below schedule. That's 600m euros. It's earned. It's not structural, but it's earned, and it's going to help us end this year with a much smaller deficit, less in debt, and have our first jumpboard for the future. This will enable us to make structural income in the following year, so that we can reassess all restrictive measures and adapt them to our options for two or three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30604	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30605	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. What we have a chance to hear today, and also according to this amendment, is that there is a big dilemma by the parties of the former regime, what are European integration at all. When you advocate European integration, then probably in the last 12 years, from 2000 to 2012, it was declarative, and then when you need to adopt certain directives and standards, then it doesn't suit you, and then you just don't. The European Union has realised that indeed the parties of the former regime cannot have an adequate partner, especially when it comes to the European path, on the one hand. On the other hand, they didn't do anything about the work when we talk about the application of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, and now the frames are to teach us certain lessons. The basic question is just being asked, Mr. Minister, why was there no fixing tariff from the budget, or a grant for renewable energy sources, until the Serbian Progressive Party practically took part in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Why aren't laws passed that would give specific locations for mini-idro power plants in an extremely transparent way? So 350 locations and competitions are scheduled and energy licenses are given. Why were there no budget items simply to speed up the energy sector in any way? Then the question arises as to why the action plan for renewable energy sources was not adopted, so the government had the Ministry of Energy in recent years until 2012, and then when the reconstruction even abolished the Ministry of Energy, so the plan for issuing solar power plants permits practically went to the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Construction led by Mr Dulic. So, this is the essence of how energy was led to 2012, and in addition, the increase in electricity prices went the way Mr Babic spoke several times today, and in principle the government's decisions, the Energy Agency and the next day's accounts to Serbian citizens. The accounts of Serbian citizens and the structure at which the price has increased have not changed so far, and it is a complete lie that those who at least spend electricity will pay the most. It's never been or will be. That's just what logic itself says about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30606	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30607	The amendment is exactly what he's talking about. The amendment says that the structure of paying this account should go in favour of those who spend the least. It is simply not true and therefore this amendment should not be accepted. One more thing to say is that, in addition to the fundamental principles to which these directives are dealt, if we are practically adopted by this law, and by not accepting this amendment, we want to implement the directives relating to excise duties and to the policy of taxation at all, it shows that our essential definition, which Minister Vujovic had, is that, in the next seven years, renewable energy and policy sources in which we will have to provide 27% participation, goes to the benefit that investors, especially for foreign direct investments, will benefit projects such as Vetropark in Kovin and Vetropark in Plandište, where foreign direct investment inflows will be provided only for these projects, close to 700m euros. Therefore, if we take into account that according to the renewable energy plan, 20% of total electricity participation is thought to be used by Belgraders from geothermal waters, then this shows a serious responsibility by the government to deal with such strategic projects in the future. Why am I saying this? Because today and in the amendments proposed by the promoters, we have listened to everything that so far has not been able to implement through the energy reform policy but also through tax policy and through the excise policy, which today has been adequate, responsiblely presented by the Finance Minister to the Assembly. That is why, with complete justification, such an amendment has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30608	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 14 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the people were submitted by Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the esteemed Dr Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30609	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, respected guests from the ministry and respected Vice President Bečić, this is our last amendment to the amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, and I would like to take this opportunity to inform the MPs in particular, including Minister Vujovic, that of the seven amendments we have submitted to this bill, that two amendments have been accepted, gentlemen respected. People's MPs already know that, especially the MPs of the SNS, but Minister Vujovic does not know and since we are discussing the amendment to the draft law here today by Minister Vujovic I would like to inform him today that we have submitted 1,282 amendments in these years and two months, including these seven amendments, gentlemen. Here, Mr. Jovicic reporting. 83 amendments were accepted, Mr Vujovicu, the People's MPs of the People's Party, which, in percentages, respected gentlemen, is 6.47%. If we follow a certain analogy, this could mean that the New Party alone thanks to one persistent, hard work in the National Assembly today has support in the electoral body of 6.47%. Thank you, gentlemen, to the MPs and SNS for identifying the effort, for congratulating us here right now, except for a round of applause, gentlemen. I must say here about this amendment and Mr Vujovic, gentlemen, our goal is not to stay at 6.47%, Minister Vujovic, we want 20% of the support in the next parliamentary elections only for the New Party, respected gentlemen and Mr Vujovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30610	Let's see if this is a virtual reality. Please replica, because you are mentioned by name and last name. The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30611	Dear Chairman, I would like to say that Mr Pavicevic has told the complete truth and we are aware and thank you, Mr Pavicevic, for making a great contribution to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because we have adopted a lot of your amendments, especially in the domain when people in the professional service may not have put a score, point, a big, little letter, etc. I think, because in most cases your amendments were correcting some grammatical errors or possibly where we put the decimal or not, but the only problem is that these amendments that were adopted are hardly going to do any good to the citizens of Serbia. But you continue to work as you have done so far, to lecture our amendments, our laws, we are deeply grateful to you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30612	Thank you. The word has been issued by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30613	I do not know if I will vote in favour of this amendment by my colleagues, Pavicevic, because when I think of one of the promoters of this amendment in 1996 calling to Nis citizens for civil disobedience by banging in pots, he deceived the citizens of Nis and Serbia for the sake of personal benefit, and now he proposes some amendments and now I do not know how we believe in his honesty that he wants to improve this bill. Otherwise, I don't know if we can believe in some who are now called the New Party or the Old Party or who knows what they are, when they're the same politicians 15 years ago only now dressed up as some new suits. So the SNS will think carefully about all the amendments whether they will accept them, but I can see that they have made a shift and are no longer an amendment of the type "expunge", now more are some lectoric, spelling or grammatical errors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30614	Thank you. The word has Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Honored Vice President Becic, Honored Minister Vujovic and Honored Guests of the Ministry, I would like to inform Mrs Barisic that I, as a first year student of the Faculty of Political Sciences of Belgrade University, also invited students and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to civil disobedience, respected gentlemen, because there were words about the theft of elections and then, as citizens, of course, in 1996, we had to react to the obvious theft of elections. I think it's one of those things in modern Serbian history that serves the pride of actors who called for civil disobedience. That's what I'm saying to Mrs. Barisic. And let me tell Mr. Jovicic, once again here to remind him, 1,282 amendments in a year and two months containing alternative proposals for solving some of the problems in relation to those proposals sent to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Here, to remind Mr Jovičić, but also Mrs Mrdakovic and Mrs Rakić and Mr Babić and Martinovic that we have sent here in the assembly procedure a completely new, respected gentlemen, a bill on planning and editing the settlement area because there are many objections to the Law on Planning and Construction which is now in force, which was adopted in December 2014. So we, in fact, referred Mr. Jovičić to Mrs. Gojkovic, to hear and Mr. Jovičić, here in the assembly procedure and the proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education, that a large concept and principle of academic integrity become part of the system of higher education. Signed by the Bill of Freedom of Fear, etc., honored gentlemen and all day to discuss the activities of the New Party in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30616	Thank you. Says the chairman before me, Zoran Zivkovic and Dr. Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30617	The New Party is mentioned, I am the president of that party, so I have the right to reply and I am pleased when colleagues come to the new knowledge that they show it out loud. Of course, I am proud of what I did in my political life, my work, and especially in the winter protests in 1996 when it was by the power of the coalition, but primarily by the power of the citizens for the first time an unnatural regime caught in stealing, so it was clear to everyone and that people had been on the streets for months to fight for their political will. This was the beginning of democracy in Serbia's modern age. This pride that I feel about it is for me and the stimulant to continue with this action, as I have been doing for the past year and a few days in the New Party and in Parliament together with Mr Pavicevic and no fiction, no lie, no projection, anything that would have any way of reducing the value of what was done or reducing the value of what we are doing right now will have no impact. There was absolutely enough time for a variety of kabadiahs, for a variety of rescuers, to check out what I was doing both in politics and in private business and in life. Anyone who wanted to investigate and who today wants to investigate I recommend that he continue with it, there is much to learn, to learn about patriotism about democracy and healthy life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30618	The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30619	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow Members, I have been mentioned twice by my colleague Pavicevic, and I want to answer him. I was also a student at the University of Nis, and the only thing my colleagues got at the time was that they lost a year, because they had to pound three months into pots, and the citizens of Nis today can't pay off those debts for electricity, because then they were promised they wouldn't pay for electricity, and there were interest rates on interest, as soon as the gentleman came into office, so it's known to the citizens and the citizens and I would ask you to leave your overrated and megalomanic ideas with those 6% somewhere in the halls of your group, because the citizens have clearly shown you how much support they give you in the previous elections, and on the next we won't even see you in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30620	Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30621	Thank you, Chairman. I wasn't the grain of an earlier speaker about it let some other organs speak. I would, of course, about an amendment that's one in a row as you said 1,200, how many amendments have you submitted? So 1,283 amendments you have submitted, and I have to admit that it really comes down to the one "to the pop and the goat baptize," so if you think that you have suggested alternative solutions by saying "get deleted", then it's every honor you have on that alternative solution, but one thing you're right, it's true that today you may have those accomplished or untrusted 6,81%. I'm convinced that you're stronger than the Democratic Party, it's an honor to have you succeed in this very room by burying them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30622	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30623	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the reasons why electricity excises is certainly the behavior of political champions. It's not a mistake just to suggest that certain accounts aren't paid. That's what you're suggesting when you're an opposition, and then when you come to power, then from the position of the government, you charge all that interest money, which you've proposed as the opposition champion not to pay. First you say, throw all those bills into this barrel, don't pay anything, and then when they come to power, they charge them both the principal and the interest. So that's one hypocrisis, and I believe that the people had the best intentions when they wanted democracy and crime. However, thanks to the champions who betrayed us from 2000 to 2004, instead of democracy and the market economy, we received only monopoly and crime. The people remained on the street, but those political champions who led him, went to the castles and lived like a fairy tale. For such politicians, the people have a message – since you are already dealing with spelling errors in these amendments, I can tell you that I voted more for your amendments than you do, and new cars are always made of new parts, not from old ones, and new parties can't be made from used politicians. As far as these 6.8% are concerned, you're stuck in the wrong place, you move one place forward, and you're going to get your real value 0.68%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30624	Replica Ivan Jovanovic at the presentation of Mr Djukanovic, because you are DS in the last sentence, I must confess, mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30625	I'm sorry this debate didn't pass in a more constructive atmosphere and only the minister tried to talk about real things. It seems to me that the representatives of the government are bewitched only by this rating which essentially means something today, means that naked executive power, but tomorrow, believe it can be completely turned around and be completely different and be blamed for everything, which is and essentially not, if this debate continues in the Serbian Parliament, without any arguments, without any pauses, without any support in reality, I don't think we're going to go far, if we continue today when the excises on electrical energy are being discussed, you're talking about 2001, the year when late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic led the government, who didn't have six months to show what he knew and had no right to defend what the previous government in which you were, which lost one war, then I don't know how you expect the citizens to accept what you were saying about what happened four or five years ago. If there is anyone's fault, it is known which authorities are obliged to enforce law and order and simply end once and for all with this pointless story. I hope that in the future, better law and order will be implemented and that corruption will not be greater than it has ever been and there will be no recession this and last year and that we will have a far better position in this country and that citizens will be far away in one better situation, as far as living standards are concerned. With such proposals coming from the government, where citizens are exclusively asked to suffer, to bear all the consequences, one bad, economic and financial policy, I think that surely this rating you're talking about and dreaming about will not be preserved, but certainly I want Serbian citizens in the future to do much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30626	Thank you. Your time is up. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. No, I'm sorry, I'm Zoran Babic. (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the place: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica, you mentioned DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30627	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to tell my colleagues who only have a head rating, that the SNS isn't fighting for the ratings, we're fighting for the improvement of our country. If we were fighting for a rating, we certainly wouldn't be with such measures in parliament today, but rather those measures would be a lullaby, which was often sung by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but therefore the awakening was extremely painful. What is a disdain for citizens, and about ratings, is when with 6% support, even below 6% support, when with a rating that is below the censors, and you hold all power in the AP Vojvodina, as your DS leader Bojan Pajtic does. Then what kind of ratings should we talk about? What's the interest of citizens to talk about? What kind of struggle for the improvement of these people to talk about, when such a raping democracy, by sticking to the chains and locks of the banishment chair, just for the sake of power, for the sake of haughtiness, just for the further emptying of all possible funds in the AP Vojvodina? I also support, of course, that the work of every MP in the Constitution and by law and by the Rules of Procedure is to propose amendments. Accepting amendments means winning democracy, winning dialogue, ultimately better texting of the law, more consistent. I think the citizens of Serbia are more overwhelmed by some negotiations and by promoting differences we think we will like the citizens of Serbia. I think the citizens of Serbia are looking for an agreement and it's a bad deal when the deal is presented as a victory over each other, because if it were irresponsible as an amendment promoter, then it was presented that since 1,283 amendments were accepted 70 and that's victory, and what about the 1,200 that were rejected? What about the 1,200 victories of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? How many times has it been the victory of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It's bad to distract people in Serbia that way. It's bad to predict some six-point support I don't know how many percent. I'll remind you that the amendment promoter, probably that this building would still be on the outside, if it hadn't been on one of the coalition lists. When we look at how much that coalition list won a year and a few days ago, we see that it's much less supportive now. I wouldn't look forward to it. Here, Mr. Pavicevic, the air-conditioned head and blushed, realized how wrong he was, and I see that he sees a mistake and see that this is actually a loss of trust, a loss of trust that we are prepared to prove and show in the elections in the AP Vojvodina, but you are not prepared to call these elections. You're not ready to go to the polls, you're not ready to go to court of citizens. Here, show that you have these, together, that you have those six and something. Great. I'll give you my hand, and I'll congratulate you if you have that percentage in Vojvodina together, but I'm not sure. Because of your insecurity, because of your poor relationship with the resources that you have at your disposal in the AP Vojvodina, we are going to have a very difficult time getting to that court. I mean, and that will end, that every amendment adopted, there have been, and there will be, the victory of democracy, the victory of parliamentaryism, the victory of agreements, the victory of reason over misunderstanding, and that Serbia's citizens expect us to do so. Every time the adopted amendment is presented by the proposal's victory, I will present that any rejected amendment is the government's victory, and I am sure we will win, and therefore I would ask the amendment's promoter not to use that argument anymore because it is no longer in favour of it and because it is demeaning and parliamentaryism and all that parliament in the Republic of Serbia means.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30628	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable Minister Vujovic, Mr. Mijailovic, respected Mrs. Gojkovic, I think that Mr. Jovicic, unlike Mr. Babic, saw the importance of this dedicated and diligent work by the MPs of the New Party, because he decided not to comment afterwards. It is accepted, therefore, that our argument and I suggest to Mr Babic that he sees himself sometimes, not every time, but sometimes to the work of his younger colleagues in his parliamentary group. When Mrs Barisic spoke, it is necessary here to say, I am glad she got involved in the debate, but I did not agree with her when she announced that civil and student protests in 1996 were a waste of time. Dear gentlemen, you cannot fight for great ideals, justice and honesty to be a waste of time. It's something that's always worth thanking, I think. And student and civil protests, not that they were not a waste of time, but for example today I am proud of my professors from the Faculty of Political Sciences of Belgrade University, who during those three and a half months in the streets, in the squares, gave lectures on the principle of citizenship, democracy, civil disobedience, civil courage, there was not a moment of lost time in those years in 1996 and 1997. One more thing to say to Mr Babić, 6.47% of the support the New Party has in the electoral body today is only, Mrs Gojkovic, the result of one dedicated work by the People's MPs of the New Party and the actions of members of the New Party throughout Serbia on the ground in informing citizens, which are systems of the value of the New Party's belief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30630	The word is Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30631	The Honorable chairman, I just want to correct my colleague, I have not said for one moment that civil protests were a waste of time, but that the leaders who led the protests, making false promises, have deceived the citizens of Serbia, which has been confirmed and what the citizens have shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30632	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the city: I answer the word. I suppose it's a replica, but you weren't in the O.R. Ivan Jovanovic is... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I was. ) To explain, he is authorized to change you, and he answered the line and spent your two minutes. He answered the line. Ivan Jovanovic, from the post: After. You can't both be authorized at the same time, at least you've been here for years. Marijan Risticevic wants what at this point? (Marian Risticevic, from the post: By amendment. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't think this amendment should be accepted, given that the motions are a little bit unserious and don't come to the session to vote for their proposals, so there are more proposals for their amendments that I voted for than they did. A team should not vote for this amendment before there is a doctor among the promoters who has forgotten that by law he must not invite students to political protests, political disobedience and that it is against the law and he is also proud of it. I really don't know how much more he thinks that. Thank you. We all see that you're both here, we can't now that the kids get my card out and I'm not here, like kids at the party kids close their eyes and think they'll pass the problem, they can't. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Slobodan Homen, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30634	Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment is in line with the previous amendment regarding when the excise duty on electricity takes effect. To remind citizens once again, by adopting this law and not by adopting this amendment, which is almost certain to happen, as of August 1st this year, electricity bills will have a new item of 7.5% excise means the first time since Serbia's citizens are supplied with electricity, electricity will also be charged with excise energy. That excise is supposed to consolidate the state of the budget in which, we listened in the last two days, it's all great and wonderful, that's not what the minister said, but the fellow MPs who will vote for this law said. Then once again we ask the question – if everything is so great and great, why the new imposition, what new income, if, according to the minister, we have saved 600m euros this year? If the situation is so good and wonderful and great, then it would be more logical that instead of a new imposition and a new takeout from the Serbian citizens' pocket, we have a refund of money, those who are less employed by the state administration and public enterprises last year, and that's 10% on salaries of over 25,000 dinars, i.e. 5, 10, 15, 20% on how reduced pensions are. We've heard that citizens can hope that their torments will come to an end soon and will be rewarded, but we haven't heard that before. This member, this law, introduces the obligation of every citizen that August's electricity bills will be increased by 7.5%, only in the name of excise duty, and with the story that this is a alignment with European commitments, as shown in the discussion as incorrect, because, once again, electricity excise is charged in ten EU countries, so, in 18, it is not charged. In addition, this government has decided this way to fill the budget, five billion dinars this year, 17.4 in the coming years. What is our fear is that this is not the end, that the government will have to, because it is not doing anything to increase economic activity in Serbia, by increasing in this way the gross social product, by increasing the revenue side of the budget from that side, because it will increase economic activity in Serbia, that because of all that there are no such measures, we will soon have some new burdens on citizens, new excises, new taxes, new alignments, whether it will be changes to the VAT Act, with some new rates, different compared to and, of course, certainly higher than what Serbian citizens are paying today, remains to see in the coming months. We will not support this Law either, because we believe that it does not contribute to the better lives of Serbian citizens in the short term or in the long term. We are not convinced by the minister that this measure will finally stabilise the budget, allowing the adjustment, as the minister said, to be cancelled, wages and pensions from October. He did not say that this would happen, and that it would be put out of force by law that reduced salaries by 10% and pensions for, in some cases, 20% and that for this reason we do not trust the government. We will not give support at the end when this law is voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30635	Thank you. Who answered first? The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30636	Thank you, Your Honor. I didn't quite understand my colleague's explanation with the amendment itself, but come on, if that's an explanation, I just have to look back on one very important thing for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. First of all, I see no reason to fear the price of electricity, because in 2011, once again, you have passed a simple law by which you predicted that private electricity distributors would exist. So the market will set the price. Maybe someone will make a better offer, so maybe people won't be attached, or they won't ask the EPS, for example, to distribute electricity to them. I don't know why, how did you get so scared about the market itself? Why am I saying this? You know, maybe we wouldn't have introduced this if you were, say, smarter to run the EPS, but you ruined it, and you didn't prepare it at all for that corporate management that we just have to do something today so the EPS can go normal on the market. Then why do you deceive people with these things? The fact that you've raised the price of electricity to the unconscious in government sessions, and you've done nothing under God's care to revitalise EPS, to get the EPS going, to build anything, that's something we inherited, and now we have to correct it. Do I like it all? Well, I don't like it, but somewhere you're forced to do something. If you think it's nice and it's very popular to introduce electricity or reduce people's pensions and wages, it's not. But, I'm sorry, unlike you, we're ready for that, so it's just that citizens don't vote for us, just as well, and we're driven out of power, but this is the only way for the economy to survive. I'm sorry that you didn't have the courage to do this, but you've brought the EPS to 400 million dinars, but what can I do to you? We inherited this. We want a healthy country, we want sound foundations. We're simply going to do this because we want to prepare EPS for the market, so that it can deal equally with private electricity distributors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30637	Mr. Djurishic, did you answer that? (Marko Djurisic, from the post: By amendment. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30638	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow MPs, I use the time of the parliamentary group. Finally, the amendment promoter sublimes its position through this amendment, which is why it does not necessarily need to come into effect at all, but does not realize that all the burdens and when we talk about excises are the result of an ugly past in which we all have a great debt, not just for ourselves, but for our children and children, with which we have come to the Serbian minority budget on the brink of breakdown. This is precisely why the SNS with its responsibility and the Serbian Government is the one that shows great strength and ability to handle and if it is necessary to remove 600 directorial posts within the EPS and bring down to seven, and if it is necessary to rationalise the functioning of the EPS, and if it is necessary to introduce so-called. a hard line of budgets through excises, which is called electricity excise. This is not such a popular measure, but the reason other EU countries do not have a completely different nature. If one Croatia, Hungary and Great Britain do not have such a system of inflows in relation to electricity-related excises, this is because they have a large flow of foreign direct investment in the area of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. If the Serbian electricity industry was not able to do so by 2012, as nothing has been done in this regard, the SNS has started preparing hasty since that year. Since 2012, in December, it has adopted the 2013 Energy Efficiency Act and the renewable energy programme in what it will invest, adopted new contracts with regard to fixing tariffs that no authority has done by today and, finally, if there is to be an increase in electricity in order to bring European directives into line, but also harmonised a certain price of electricity with countries in the region, we are again the cheapest with that price of electricity, and has passed such a bill in this Assembly. We have shown complete transparency in functioning in this sector, and we are not ashamed not to share such a law with Serbian citizens in this way with the MPs. I thank you, Mr. Minister, for putting forward all the economic effects that have shown that this government and SNS have worked hard on public sector reform in the last two years, in addition to all the problems it has had. What is not news, perhaps, for MPs of opposition parties, or journalists, but the price of gas was lowered the day before yesterday and there was just 12.58% of the price of gas. This means that natural gas users will have fewer bills. Therefore, as much as you can go out to meet the citizens and that certain social categories of protection against the increase in costs at the monthly level, you do so. After all, social categories will be financed from the budget and six million euros will be allocated to those who cannot pay for electricity in consumption up to 250 kilowatt hours a year, which means that somewhere we are thinking about these social categories and when we talk about electricity. What is important, in the end, is that the future of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency in Serbia will come to life and show that Serbia can indeed cope with the European pathway and in energy policy, especially after the adoption of the new law in December, where the third package directives, which are a challenge for all countries of the region, and for us, but we are dealing with these challenges in an adequate way and we can deal with them, simply the future that we can believe and can deal with. Of course, we have difficulties and, of course, there are measures that will be difficult to deal with, but our citizens have confidence in all of this and simply give support to it. That is why we will really support this bill in the voting day and we will not adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30639	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30640	In a few minutes, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to try to answer some of the thesis that's been said in the end, and nothing's been done in the past few years, and how it's done now. It's just the opposite. By 2012, there was a lot of work in the EPS. I was talking about how the capital remonts of all the plants on the thermal power plants were done, which extended the century to 20-30 years. New power has been installed. Only in TENT 250 megawatts a year, which is the size of one whole block. In the last three years, nothing has been done, and today Serbia is in danger that by 1 January 2017, when the Treaty, which Serbia has adopted, is due to enter into force, on carbon oxide emissions from thermal power plants to bring it down to European level. Unfortunately, we are in danger, since the desumporisation works have not started, denitrification of the thermoelectric power plants, that we will have to shut down the thermoelectrics, that they will only be able to operate a certain time period since 2013 and that at that moment Serbia will lack around 13-15% of electricity. If that happens, we will be able to export electricity from a country that can be the main momentum of our economy in a position to import electricity. We will further destabilise our foreign trade deficit and cause major problems in the budget, Mr. Minister, and nothing is done about it. The Japanese desumporation credit is not realised. It was supposed to be closed this month, and it was extended for another three months. All to begin work today, we cannot reach 1 January 2017 to finish the job, and on smaller blocks up to 300 megawatts nothing has been done and we will have to put them all out on 1 January 2017. That's what's waiting for us when we talk about power generation. It's not the EPS that makes money on electricity distribution, it's electricity production, and that's the main value of the EPS. That's why it's not worth two, three, four billion, but worth 10, 15 billion euros, and what someone's been doing for the last three years, this is what we're talking about corporates, is reducing the value of the EPS, and with the intention of selling for small money a part of the Elektroprivreda, which the prime minister announced in his exposé. We're against that EPS sale, whatever. Of course we're against any part of the Elektroprivreda being sold for small money, and that's what we're doing with the EPS today. That is why we believe that this measure is precisely leading to a further reduction in EPS values, in order to sell it to someone for small money, and we will see in years and months ahead whether this is true or not. I've talked to people, I'm not an expert in this area, but with people who are and who are saying this is going to happen, that this is a real scenario, a scenario that unfortunately the Government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't care about. I'm afraid we're going to talk about this very quickly that we're going to hear again the guilt of someone who was until 2012. In three years, many of these things could have ended or at least started. None of this has been done, and we will have a situation that this country, as you can read, in some other countries, will have to import electricity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30641	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30642	Thank you, Madam President. The Serbian Progressive Party will not vote for this amendment, because in the course of the debate in principle and in particular we have not heard at least a fraction of the arguments of these now concerned about the fate of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so I would like to hear the argument that they voted for and therefore raised the price of electricity, which was spoken of by my distinguished counterpart Djukanovic, on 15 May 2007, within the government, which they did not lead, but they participated as the biggest factor, so they increased the price by 15%, and on 1 March 2008 by 7.6%, and on 1 August 2008 by 8.4%, I see that his colleague is taking his hand, it doesn't matter, so on 1 March 2010, by 10% and 1 April 2011 by 15.1%. Every year, once or twice, they increased the price of electricity. Why was that allowed? Why was that regular then? Why was it worth it then? Why was that not a blow to the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when these prices were brought in and this price hike was brought in at the famous telephone sessions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? The evidence that someone else, in the situation, in the position of 2012, don't God, would continue to run the state and the government of the Republic of Serbia, would reach for these measures and make these measures even bigger, even harder, this article has also been speaking since 19 February 2012. At that time, EPS Director-General, I am sorry that some colleagues do not find this interesting, Dragomir Markovic, elected by the government, led by DS and Mirko Cvetkovic, said that the company's business plan did not provide for an increase in electricity prices in 2012, but that by the end of 2014, and we are already spending the first half of 2015, Dragomir Markovic announced that under the leadership of the EPS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the price of electricity must rise 60%. Sixty percent announced, predicted and done by those who now fear the introduction of a excise on spent electricity and because, although I'm not happy about getting a bill, the other colleagues and my neighbors will get an average of 300 and some dinars. So what do you think we left this Markovic and the former regime running the EPS? We'd have increased power by 12% by the end of last year, ladies and gentlemen. It's 60%. These aren't my words. I quote this from Mr Dragomir Markovic, who made this statement and was published in all means of public information on 19 February 2012. Even scarier than not getting answers – what are the reasons for the increase in electricity of 7, 8, 15% from 2007 to 2012, after one or two times a year, we didn't get answers – for God's sakes, why did you waste that money so wastefully, for God's sakes, why did you finance concerts, 353 million dinars, for God's sakes, why did you give football clubs 80 and change millions of dinars per year, for God's sakes, why did you finance marketing campaigns 300 to 500 million dinars a year, for God's sakes, why did you need these marketing campaigns for a monopoly on the electricity distribution market, for Christ's sake, why did monopolies need a campaign and that through marketing campaign owned by DS presidents, for God of people, why did you waste that money? I didn't hear the answers to these questions two days ago or today. I'm sure I won't hear it in the future. What is most important is that this money is being poured into the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget, that it is not money that will increase the expenditure side, but the revenue side, that the expenditure party is nailed by what we adopted in December 2014 and that it cannot change. I look forward and look forward to further signs of the recovery of our public finances because this means that we have become and become a more stable and orderly state. That means we're becoming a country that's more interesting for foreign people, but also for domestic investors. This means that we become a country that can pay our pensioners and employees in the state administration for real money, become a country that spends as much as it earns, become a state that doesn't spend unsuspected and that we're not a country that thus burdens future generations. With such a policy and with such treatment of public finances, the point of 2012 was put. They have placed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in fair and democratic elections. That is why the SNS will believe in the next minutes and hours ahead of us, Mr Vujovic, to support this bill to move forward with the recovery of our public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30643	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30644	Madam President, just one thing to try and clear up. It's called "supervision," not "supervision." For the seventh time, I'm asking my dear colleague. I must say, you've been robbed of a Freudian lapus, Mr. Babice. You said -- the Serbian government budget. It's the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and since you're looking through the prism of your authority that you think is unsuspecting and unsuspecting, which will soon prove to be not true, you've shown what you think of citizens and the increase in the price of electricity you're now putting behind them. If the price of electricity has increased in the previous years, we have made that clear, it has been increased, not slowed down, both wages and pensions have been increased. The problem is next – you promised to cut the power by 20%, and now you're increasing it by 12 comas something. You promised a lot of things so you didn't keep it. That you've increased your salary and pensions by 15%, so I understand why you're increasing your electricity excise, but you haven't fulfilled anything from what you promised. And now I'm talking about Director Markovic, let's talk about Director Kolubara who has two million a month and 55 thousand dinars for lunches and a team. It's normal for citizens to ask you why you're increasing their electricity prices. That's what you're talking to me about, not Markovic, who wasn't even a member of the DS. Even if he was, you're not a prosecutor, you're not a DRI, you're not an inspection, as far as I can tell. That should be dealt with by the competent authorities, and you keep boasting, but no one's living in prison for you. You let all these guys go for accusing you. So don't distract people. Please, in the end, the fact is that you've been in power for three years, that everything is more expensive, that employment has fallen, that the people have no money, and now you're raising the price of electricity. That's the only truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30645	Time. Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30646	My laptops, which were and will be, Freudian or ordinary don't cost the citizens of Serbia anything but your 353 million dinar concerts, your 300-500 million-million-dollar marketing campaigns, but your sponsorship of different clubs and clubs, but your division only to DS members, as Bojan Pajtic does in Vojvodina, and your hand and hat, costs it. Those laps are very, very expensive. We can also talk about Director Colubara. Why not? Do you know how many of your directors of the Colubare had official cars available? Three hundred and seventy-two. Is Tsaran a member of the DS or not anymore or are you going to give him up too? Do you know how many official cars are now? Eighty. Now the revitalization of 95% of all machines and equipment has been completed unlike Ceran and his machines and buffers of 25 hours a day as they worked. There's a line in the expropriation. Are we going to talk about how various homes and houses and various payouts are paid at 10, 20, 50 times the price? I don't think you'll be worth the Colubary story. What's good news from Kolubara is that this year, Kolubara will have a historicly large production of 29 million tonnes of coal and I am sure that this production will also reflect on GDP and will affect the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We heard everything. We have also heard insults and not enough to say – yes, the price of electricity has increased...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30647	Time. You've wasted your time on the replica. You're way out of line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30648	... What are the reasons that you give the citizens of the Republic of Serbia a hand and a hat?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30649	The word is Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30650	Thank you, Madam President. No offense really. The questions are very precise. We can say a hundred times – let the competent authorities do their job. You'll always abuse it around both the expropriation and the vehicle and everything. The facts are inconclusive, sir. The facts are that your director, whom you party-edited, monthly, dear citizens, spends two million on lunches and a team. Your director. During that time, the nettles continue to swim, Mr. Babiću, because the company you hired, called "South Baka", did not finish the job in time. There's no pen. There's no control. The money's been paid. There's no transparency. There's nothing. That's the facts. Market campaigns and sponsorship, so yes, here's a distinguished colleague present, so tell me what has "Electrovodina" to do with the sponsorship of the Jagodina football club? What difference does it make? What does the marketing company of Mr. Goran Veselinovic, which controls all these seconds today for which you accuse Gilas? Whose is Goran Veselinović? He's not in the DS, is he? You know very well who he is and that's why you're smiling. You know very well who the man is. So, that's what you tell us. The problem is that you're not, and you're right, I have to give you credit, you're right not to see what they're up against, where this increase is going. What, besides what the minister explained, about the deficit issue? What's up, EPS? What did you reform besides filling three administrative buildings with party people? It's a fundamental and essential question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30651	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30652	Where's this money going?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30653	Time, thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30654	I see that we have spread the subject and that there is now running away from responsibility by not giving an answer as to what kind of interest the Elektroprivreda of Serbia had for a 353 million dinar concert, or for various football clubs, or for different marketing campaigns. Does Mr. Goran Veselinovic do any marketing for EPS? Does EPS need marketing? No, it's not. And that's the difference between you and me. But if EPS was the only one, we'd survive. But what about those 500,000 euros for two, three billboards in Belgrade for "Let's Clean Serbia"? Well, that's when Dulic cleared the budget, and Serbia, unfortunately, remained buried with wild dumps and dumps. What about Lasto, the Lasta transport company? Nine executive directors, three to five thousand salaries, 80m euros in debt, but it is important to keep the bills for the Democratic Party in the drawer. Well, it's important that only the Democratic Party doesn't have to pay anything. Everyone else we used, we all used, and we'll all use transport services, but it's only important that the Democratic Party pays nothing. Now, that's a directorship, and that's how you treated public enterprises, even though "Lasta" is not a public company, but a company. Do you know how many bonus directors and bar and restaurant spending have had there, unlike the present time? I believe Mr. Radenkovic, if he were here, could speak extremely highly of it. Do you know how many of those companies and companies you brought in, not at zero? Well, you've brought "Lutria Serbia" to work at a minus. That in history has failed anyone, "Luthria" to work at a minus.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30655	Time, Mr. Granny. And that was fine with you. We can count as many companies as we can and make comparisons with current results, but it won't turn out to be good for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30656	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Stefanovic, you signed up on what grounds? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: Replica. ) Did you mention, or was there a party or anything else? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Yes. I don't think so. Here, and the deputy secretary says you're not mentioned, nor is the party mentioned. Mr. Babic, did you mention Mr. Stefanovic or the party? Thank you. Here, esteeming that I wasn't chairing the moment you claim to mention it, I'll give you a replica, and if you've deceived me, let it be a burden to you. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30657	Mr. Becic, you can determine very easily, later or immediately, and you will see that I did not deceive you. So I really don't have any interest in taking the right that I can't use at all in this situation. Why would I appear if the Democratic Party was not mentioned, and it is mentioned very negatively. I don't know, maybe you didn't hear, but if you could give me my time back? So, some firms and some mistreatment, illegal treatment were mentioned. I agree that it all needs to be processed and solved, whoever the director was, is or will be. This is not at all controversial, including the EPS, the problem is that somehow you do not see what your directors are doing in Serbia right now. You don't see the same practice, i.e. Even worse, it continues in Serbia today. The problem is, you promised to stop that practice, and you didn't stop it. Well, if you and I agree on anything, we agree that, behold, order is in place and is in accordance with the law. My question is, since you're in power, why don't you do it now? Why don't you do it? You were in power personally. That CEO was also the CEO for your time. Why didn't you grab him by the tie then and say, "Man, what are you doing?" Well, imagine tomorrow when it's being explored how many buses you've used for your rallying, there'll be materials terrible, lots of buses. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: But we paid. Well, we'll see how you paid and where you came from. When a law is introduced on the origin of property, then we'll see who has what, and hopefully you'll back it up. What's for sure is that you have to tell us, not only how many Greeks have two million a month for lunches, but tell us why the spears are still under the mud and water, and where is that increase money going to go?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30658	Time, Mr. Stefanovic. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30659	What I would remind you, and I would like you to pass on to a colleague who is so uninformed that during some 14 months, as much as I have spent at the head of the Laste Supervisory Board, that the director has been replaced, that the number of executive directors has been reduced, that the salaries from three to five thousand euros have been reduced to a maximum of 160,000 dinars, that the people who continued to lead the Lasta water is still today and do so in one responsible way, are really struggling with huge debt and are working in a very fair and responsible way. Yes, the Serbian Progressive Party has hired Lasta as a carrier. Yeah, but we paid our bills. We didn't ask, we didn't ask, we didn't force any directors to put the bills in the drawer and hide them. We didn't organize a rally without our account being blocked, like someone's doing right now. And even now, "Let's Light Serbia" is more like a public lighting commercial when Serbia is lighting up at 19.00 p.m. I'll remind a fellow lawyer that covering up a crime is a felony. If he knows that some executives are doing a lot worse for you right now, he has that knowledge and he has proof of it, so what's he doing here at the National Assembly? Right into the D.A.'s office. Right at the D.A.'s office. You know who and how it works. But to put in the same pot those who owe and debted, who destroyed, who destroyed, with people who struggled to lead these companies in a correct, right and legal manner, it's more than hypocritical.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30660	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 24 June 2015, starting at 17 hours and 45 minutes, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 10th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-06-24-0.u30661	Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 148 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, against – seven abstentions – there are no, two MPs did not vote, of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment of the Government to Article 4. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 151 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - one, voted 151 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – two, abstentions – one, 151 of the total of the 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A group of 11 MPs from the DS Group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – one, 151 of the total of 157 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 10 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – one, 155 of the respective 159 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for – 140, no one, with abstentions, has voted 20 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 7th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Prof. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs submitted to the 11th amendment in the same text: Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, a group of 11 MPs from the DS group and a group of 10 MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS, ZZS and ZS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Olena Papuga and Djordje Stojsic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted to the same text by the People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinovic, and together by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 MPs of the total of 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was submitted by a group of 10 MPs -- Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 MPs from the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Dear People's MPs, I was informed by the National Assembly that by adopting the amendment to Article 4. The draft laws tabled by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic set up the situation under Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. the adoption of that amendment, gave rise to the need for the committee responsible to submit a new amendment to bring the amendment adopted with the amendment of the Government to Article 4 which became an integral part of the draft law. I therefore set a 10-minute break and ask that the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives meet immediately, and to submit the necessary amendment, i.e. the report. The Committee sessions will be held in the halls here on the ground floor of the National Assembly. Thank you. 43/1DJ/VK 18.15 -18.25 We're going back to work. Before we continue to decide, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 146 MPs are present in the hall or that most of the total number of MPs are present. You have been given an amendment to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. On the basis of Article 165. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted eight of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment most of the votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – six abstentions – there are no, two of the 153 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on a common transit procedure, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 153 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on Simplification of Formality in Trade in Goods, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has those who did not vote out of the 153 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A project to improve the land administration in Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of the 152 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 3 submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Given that this amendment provides for the law to enter into force the following day from the day of its publication, I am voting on a proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, voted eight out of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the Law within eight days of its publication. I now put to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement (Project of the improvement of the land administration in Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted four out of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly, by majority of the votes of all the MPs, passed a bill on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A project to improve the land administration in Serbia) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (SEE-DPL) in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147, no one, with abstentions, voted five of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the official statistics programme between 2016 and 2020, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, no one, with abstentions, voted seven out of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the official statistics programme between 2016 and 2020. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on visa waiver for the citizens of the two countries, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 152, against – there is no one with abstention – none who have not voted from the total of 152 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the conduct of paid jobs of family members in their diplomatic missions, consular representations or missions in international government organisations, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – no one with abstentions – has voted for two of the total 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 22 June 2015, at 10 hours and 21 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no, 144 of the total of 148 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 22 June 2015, at 10 o'clock and 25 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 103 and 157 paragraphs 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 145 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on June 22, 2015, at 13 hours and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 141 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 22 June 2015, at 15 hours and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Neđo Jovanovic, at a session on 22 June 2015, at 15 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 131 of the total of 144 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 24 June 2015, at 13 o'clock, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 139 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 24 June 2015, at 13 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 24 June 2015, at 14 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the Assembly to decide whether the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 138 of the total of 142 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
