ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20294	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Miroljub Stankovic. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome members of Belgrade's Attorney General's Board, who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st point of the agenda. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Who's yelling at the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister Selakovic and respected guests from the Ministry of Justice, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I have reported to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think the injured members are from 105th to 118th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which prescribe disciplinary measures to MPs and members of 283 and 284. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning the rights and duties of the Members of the People. National MP Zoran Zivkovic for the ninth time in a row this morning is forbidden to attend a session of the National Assembly and to take part in an amendment debate on six draft laws on the agenda today. The Honorable National Assembly President, Zoran Zivkovic, held at the National Assembly session, at which he was told a measure of distance from the Great Hall of the National Assembly, was exposed to the independence of the chairmanship of the National Assembly, which is why MP Zoran Zivkovic told the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia and my opinion, respected National Assembly presidents, that if we decided here that Zoran Zivkovic could participate in today's session of the National Assembly and at all the next sessions of the National Assembly, we would influence the protection of the dignity of the National Assembly in relation to two things. First of all, in relation to the independence of the chairmanship of the National Assembly, and then, respected presidents of the National Assembly, and the possibility of the Constitutional Court telling the National Assembly that it was acting illegally, respected presidents. We have to stop that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20296	Thank you. You stated that almost all the members of the Rules of Procedure were injured from 105 to 118, referring to the provisions of the other members of the Rules of Procedure. You're not as right as last time and before last. You know that it is in line with article 108 on the session of the National Assembly that the president, that is, chaired at that moment. Because of the breach of order at the session, the president of the National Assembly may give notices to take words or distance from the session. President Igor Becic said a measure of distance from the session after saying one, two times and three times a reminder, because of the words that MP Zoran Zivkovic directed to him from his place, speaking to him and saying - cattle, here I am being corrected – one cattle, although I do not know how many and only ones can, but all right, a matter of MPs understand grammar. Therefore, Article 108 is very clear that there is no self-will of the president but is thus established by the Rules of Procedure. Another measure of money was given by the Committee on Administrative Affairs, and the execution of the fine is being handled by the Secretary-General, or the General Secretariat, and while the measure is being carried out by MP Zoran Zivkovic will be someone who will have to respect the decision of this home. As far as the constitutional appeal is concerned, I say we are not in charge of prejudge the decisions of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the constitutional appeal you filed. We'll wait for a decision, we'll follow it when we get it, when it's made. Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, article 107 and Article 113. Therefore, the MP has the right to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but he does not have the right to violate the dignity of the National Assembly. Now I have to prove to you the chairman that my previous speaker has violated that dignity, and he has, by calling for disrespect of the Rules of Procedure, for disrespect of the procedure. This is neither parliamentary nor business congratulations for the simple reason that the article in 113 says that the distance from the session is applied for the next 20 days of the session, meaning, the work of the National Assembly, from the day of the distance, or for the session at which this measure is given if the session takes longer than 20 days of the session of the National Assembly. So, the previous speaker violated the dignity of the National Assembly, because he asked that the Rules of Procedure be disrespected, that the procedure was not respected because of the alleged opposition of this document, or the Rules of Procedure, and I can't believe it, and it wasn't academically justified that my previous speaker spoke against the Rules of Procedure who brought a parliamentary group to whom he himself belonged, whose list he was elected, a team before I could believe that such academic integrity had agreed to be on the list of those who brought, according to him, this anti-constitutional Rules of Procedure. So, I cannot believe that this is possible and thus violates the dignity of the National Assembly, because it calls for non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure adopted by the parliamentary group, allegedly threatening freedom of expression. This means that the parliamentary group on whose list has been elected within a longer period of time, for over 10 years has violated freedom of expression in this House, and for me it is a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm not asking for this voice injury, but for the previous speaker to be warned about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20298	Thank you. Do you need an explanation? No, thank you. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Nikola Selakovic, Justice Minister Nela Kuburović, Assistant Minister of Justice Cedomir Backovic, Assistant Minister of Justice Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. We move to the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Public Logistics You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Gordana Komić, Borislav Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovan Marković, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukković, Dragan Šutanovic, Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Dusan Petrovic, Zoran Živković, Vladimir Pavić and Dragan Nikolic, as well as the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Govers. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovići Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20299	Thank you. I'll also use the time of the parliamentary group. The amendment amending the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Note by clarifying the provisions concerning the objection against the solutions of the public notebook and the appeal against the court's resolution. What's this about? It is our view that it is important to specify the conditions and in terms of the very way of decision-making in the procedures that the public notary has, but also in the deadlines prescribed by law for him and his affairs when it happens that, as I say in the first position, if the public notary finds that the conditions for making up, confirming or overing the document are not met, the solution will refuse to take the official action. This is a well-known position, and our intention is, I am grateful, we cannot tell our colleagues, because by profession I am neither a lawyer nor a lawyer, but I am grateful for the suggestions, for the debate and for all the additional information they have given us when it comes to the idea of preciseing the objection against a public notary's solution, because in the second position we are looking for - against the decision on the refusal of a public notary to take the party's official action can make a statement to the competent court in whose territory is the official seat of the handling public notary within eight days of the date of delivery of the copy of the solution. In the third position, this second position is as much as protecting the right of the party to come to the notebook, so much as a single way of special control space and reducing the problem that the party may have in the event that any other body, control or chamber, cannot reveal the conduct or public notary which is the subject, the possibility of disciplinary measures. In the third position, we say - the court is obliged to decide on the complaint within eight working days of the date of the submission of the complaint, in the fourth - not acting on the position of three of these members will be considered unconscious by the work of the judge. Therefore, our request that the party be protected from the notebook implies that the notary be protected from the court and that it be served by the deadlines, that each one of its own work be served in order to keep it legally prescribed. The public notebook shall make a decision referred to in Article 1 in writing within 24 hours and deliver it within 48 hours from the date on which the party has joined the public notary with a request to take the official action. In the case of adoption of these amendments and additions, non-compliance with Article 3(3) of this Article will also be considered to be a disciplinary offence of a public notary within the meaning of the provisions of Article 150 of this Act which is not subject to amendment and supplementation. The second part of our amendments and additions refers to the appeal against the court's ruling. In four positions, we are looking against the court's decision adopting the party's objection and ordering the acting public notary to take the required official action, the public register has no right to appeal. This is how much protection of the party, so much as a clear message from the legislator, is handled very carefully in deciding on the rejection of the procedure required by the party in front of the public notary. The party may appeal to the competent court within 15 days of the date of delivery of the copy of the solution. The court is obliged to decide on the appeal within 15 working days of the date of delivery of the appeal. And the final position - not acting according to the position of the 3rd member will be considered unconscious by the work of the judge. In an explanation, as I said, we have specified the duty of a public notary that in a case in which he refuses to take over an official action he is acting urgently and in a precise, defined time-limit. These proposed amendments and sanctions provided for in Article 150 provide that citizens can, with confidence, approach their affairs, both the public notary and the awareness that the court exists to protect the party, so the citizen as a party, and, of course, the jurisdiction of the public notary in the case that the party has the intention of fraud or whatever he considers to be able to do in the conduct of the public register. The proposed amendment before us does not set a time limit within which a public notary provides a solution refusing to take the official action or a deadline in which it delivers that solution to the party and according to the proposed text, it is possible for a public notary for any reason not to adopt a solution that refuses the official action and thus defacto disabling the party or making it more difficult for it to continue the procedure to amend and supplement this law. So, I read all the views of both members of the law that we want to change Article 3 so that it would be perfectly clear what our intention is as a proposing amendment, clear deadlines for a public notary, clear protection of the party's armed rights, clear protection of the right of the notebook to act in accordance with the jurisdiction of the law which defines his affairs and judicial protection in case there is a dispute that the party and the public notary cannot resolve, the party for the reason he is a citizen, and the notebook because he lacks space for a deadline in which he refuses to resolve. What did the government say about the explanation? He says an amendment is not accepted for the reason why a deadline is proposed for a public notary to adopt a solution to refuse to take an official action. The government is of the opinion that, according to the draft law, a public notebook is required to bring an immediate solution. That's why we submitted the amendment. When is it now? You know that as when strangers ask us – when is your afternoon? Because the partners they're meeting are telling them - I'll get back to you this afternoon. Well, they ask when it's afternoon and they ask what it's been for a week, and they ask what it is these days. It's our speech to show that we have space, that we have no awareness of the deadlines. Now the government tells me that the amendment that we propose to set deadlines is good for the party, good for the public notary, good for the court, that it should not be because it will happen immediately. I would like the debate to be considered in detail on this amendment, because the answer is that the public notebook has the law prescribed from now on, so it is unnecessary to specify, I think it will cause damage to the public notary and to the party. With full awareness that these changes will apply to a very small number of cases, but it is not an idea to say – it is not going to happen, but the idea of a law that we have introduced notaries into the system for each individual to be under equal protection and as a party and as a public notary who exercises authority and has the protection of the court that finally decides what happened to the deadlines within which the notary refused to provide the party a service, whether the party has acted properly, whether the judge has acted with certainty. These are amendments that only improve the conditions in which work and public notebooks and courts and us who approach public notebooks should take place. I must say, it is sadder that the government tells me that it is in the law, that it will do so immediately, than whether, in the end, by the decision of the majority or by the government's representatives, it will be to accept this amendment. He was made, as he taught me to say in good faith and with the desire to leave as little action as possible between the public notebook and the party for interpretation, especially about the fact that the notebook decides when it is immediately and when it is not immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20300	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blaža Bradic and Dusan Petrovic. The word is Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20301	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I particularly welcome our guests from the Bar Association, fellow lawyers, and it is my special pleasure that they are following the work of the National Assembly today, because this is a very important issue that has disrupted the functioning of the judiciary for four months in our country, and it is high time to resolve to the end. My fellow MPs from the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS-ZZS-ZS and I have submitted amendments to the amendment of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration and to the other draft laws of this set, which is on the agenda today, consideration in particular. Our amendments mainly refer to some technical solutions. We didn't want amendments to get us into fundamental solutions because we believe that the laws that are before us are really written in the agreement reached between the Bar and the Ministry and that the requirements and the measure found to be met to the extent that both sides can be met. Namely, this first amendment refers to Article 3 adding titles above new members and new members of 53a and 53b, which regulate the objection against public notebook resolutions and appeal against court resolutions. The amendments relate essentially to the fact that Article 2 53a provides that a decision on the refusal of a public notary to take an official action is to be taken by the party to declare a complaint to the competent court in whose territory the official seat of the handling public notary is located within eight days of the date of delivery of the copy of the solution. In Section 3, the court is obliged to decide in the procedure of eight working days, from the day of the submission of the complaint. The same is true in Article 53b as regards the calculation of deadlines. We have proposed, by amendment, that the word "workers" be added both in the position of Article 2 of Article 53a and in Article 2 of Article 53b, so that the deadlines for the party on working days are also counted. We believe that by calculating the deadlines for the parties per day, and for the court on working days, they put themselves in an unequal position of the party who object and the court acting by appeal. This could lead to some degree of discrimination. If it counts like this in eight working days for the court, it's definitely going to fall at least one weekend, which means it's at least ten days and that means the deadlines aren't exactly the same. In essence, it is not clear to us why the court is scheduled for eight working days, because the deadlines count on the days, and he knows if the end of the term falls on the weekend, that is, on a non-working day, how it counts, and now I will not speak at all about how the deadlines are calculated, but we felt that in this case we needed to level the position of the party which is objecting and the court's conduct in terms of calculating the deadlines. Our amendment has, of course, been rejected, and the argument of the Government is that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the deadlines for the court's proceedings are appropriate to the appeal, i.e. the appeal prescribed by the draft law. I must say that this argument is, at the very least, inappropriate and that it represents the demeaning of the government, i.e. the ministry that proposed this to the Government and the Assembly and the People's MPs, and that it shows a boastful attitude towards the MPs and this Assembly, because the argument does not affect the essence of the amendment at all. We did not say in the amendment that it was an inappropriate time limit for the court but that a way of calculating the deadlines for the party and for the court in the same article should be equalised. This is not the first time we get arguments that don't give adequate facts why the amendment isn't accepted and what are such general character, phrases that are written just to write something. Indeed, I urge it to break up with that practice once. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20302	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20303	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ministers, representatives of the ministry, distinguished fellow lawyers, MPs and MPs, although I am in principle against such an amendment and against the first amendment, which was explained by distinguished colleague Gordana Comic, I have to do one session here, and say that on one issue they are right, and that is what they have already fully explained, and as to whether a deadline should be prescribed within eight working days or only within eight days. With that, I must admit that in the procedural law of the Law of Prosecution, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the law of enforcement and security, no deadlines are prescribed within eight working days but within eight days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20304	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20305	Thank you. The amendment to Article 5 has at this time an entirely new feature than it had when I was with my colleagues. Namely, the amendment in the same text was submitted by the relevant Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, and I am pleased. If I'm supposed to be in voting day and they don't mention that my colleagues and I have submitted this amendment, I'm glad, too, because it's more important what the amendment says. The text of the amendment submitted by the Committee, which we received before the beginning of the session, and the text of the amendments that we have submitted, is identical. Our explanations differ. Now I don't know how to say what makes me feel better. But this, in the Committee's explanation, has something nice, which is to mention, in the Committee's explanation, the amendment that we have submitted, because it is identical in the text. It's a joke, little parliamentary joke. It is good that the amendment is prescribed, written synchronously and I am not going into it at all, I am pleased that this amendment law will be improved and changed for the better. What's this about? The text of the amendments that we have submitted, in the first point, states several points about: “In the form of a public note, it consists of: 1. contracts on the availability of the immobilities of commercially incompetent persons; 2. legal maintenance agreements, in accordance with the law; 3. mortgage agreements and publishing statements if it contains an explicit statement by the person that, on the basis of a mortgage agreement, i.e. a statement of declaration, it is possible, for the purposes of the exercise of the debt, to carry out the obligation directly by means of an emergency execution, either by court, or by means of a court. “ The following is said: “The legal affairs and statements of Article 1, which are made in the form of a public record, have the same evidence power as those made in a court or other state body. ” The final position states: ‘The contracts or declarations amending the legal basis resulting from the conclusion of the contract or by making statements referred to in Article 1 shall be concluded or made in the form of a public notation’. In the last position: ‘The legal transactions and declarations referred to in Article 1 which are not made in the form of a public notary shall not produce a legal fact’. Such an amendment has been tabled by the Committee, and I suppose it will be adopted in the voter's Day, if it has not already passed the procedure with the Constitutional and Legislative Committee, so that by accepting the mandated proposal, the Government, it becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal without voting. The arguments that I have commented on differing are not very different, because it is a fundamental matter, that the proposed amendment deletes point 2, which reads: "The contracts on the availability of the immobilities of persons who cannot see, hear, speak, read and write", because the provision proposed is contrary to the provision of Article 21(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, also mentioned in the explanation of the amendments submitted by the Committee. The proposed provision equates people who cannot see, hear, speak and write with business incompetent persons, thus discriminating them, based on the physical disability which is such that it is explicitly stated as forbidden by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and those who cannot see, hear, speak, read and write are not commercially incompetent under the law itself. Business incompetence is a completely different topic. She, of course, does not exclude being a commercially incompetent person who does not see, hears, doesn't speak, but cannot be taken as a definition to put them in the status of business incompetent persons. Ida isn't banned, it's logical, it's human not to do that. So this proposed provision cannot represent a special measure that the Republic of Serbia can introduce to establish full equality between all persons and that is provided for by the provision of Article 21(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because those who cannot see, hear, speak, read and write in any other procedure or legal situation are not equal to those who are deprived of their business ability and cannot therefore be evenly matched in the amendment and addition of this law. The full equality of these persons in the Republic of Serbia is ensured by the obligation of all the authorities of the Republic of Serbia to provide these individuals with an interpreter through whom they can agree, participate in the process, and that is, of course, the case with public notebooks. In relation to the illiterate persons, equality is ensured by reading the contract out loud, by establishing the conduct of this action, the fact that the person who concludes the contract is not in writing and by realizing that the mark has been placed, but that the person who is in the process has complete, unequivocal, clear awareness of the obligations and of the procedures that are before him as a liability or gain in front of the public notary. In accordance with the provision presented and proposed, unless this proposed amendment is adopted, I will not read this part of my argument, since, fortunately, the Committee has decided to adopt the amendment in the same text. This amendment shall delete point 4. — the mortgage agreement and the statement in question, if they contain an explicit statement by the person required that, on the basis of a mortgage agreement, or a statement of a hostage, it may, in order to fulfil the action owed, be directly enforceable, either by court or by a court of law, because the provision proposed is contrary to Article 67. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it was left out of the original and original amendment and addition of the Law on Public Logs, an amendment adopted by the Committee on Justice, and submitted in the same text by me and my colleagues. To improve this law, we advocated the amendment by our colleagues Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Once again, since this is the last amendment that I have submitted to the amendment and the addition of the Law on Public Notes, I want to publicly thank all MPs, friends and people who, by their own good will, contact both us MPs and send their opinions, their proposals, their remarks on what needs to be done in the law. The more thorough our dialogue, the more based on facts and the more we read, the better we will understand how important it is for us to listen to those who do not sit in this room and have knowledge that we can use. I am grateful to them for that, as I am grateful to my colleagues from the Committee on Justice for submitting amendments to the same text and to all of us who will vote in favour of this amendment in the Day of Vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20306	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20307	I thank you, President. In view of the fact that at the meeting of the Committee on Justice, held just before today's meeting of the Assembly, we unanimously supported this amendment of the Committee, then it is necessary to point out at today's session, that indeed the Committee did not have any problem and that all members of the Committee on Justice had unreservedly supported this proposal. I will point out in particular the support of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, in this direction that something that the Citizens' Protector, i.e. Simeon, pointed out was removed by this amendment, which is respect for the principle of non-discrimination. In this direction, I must really point out my unreserved belief, first of all from the point of view of the Bar, that neither the Bar Association nor the Ministry of Justice, when the agreement was concluded, had the intensification to standardize this text of the law, which would have led to the suspicion of a particular category of person, the categories of persons who have the so-called handicap, to put themselves in a discriminatory position. Indeed, motivation was quite different, and this motivation was far higher in legal certainty and far greater in legal protection for such persons, given that the contracts they make up should have a form of public notation, in terms of the protection of the interests of those categories of persons, and not in terms of their discrimination. But what is undoubtedly true, it is true that these faces cannot be leveled with the category of business incompetent persons, nor do disabled persons deserve it. In any case, support for this amendment is unquestionably, unequivocally and welcome and welcome the Committee on Justice and Parliament Group of the Socialist Party of Serbia supports the position of the predecessor, my esteemed colleague, Comic, who highlighted what really stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20308	Thank you. Olga Batic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20309	Thank you. I think that Mr Neđo Jovanovic, in part, well explained and, of course, we agreed on the Committee that such an amendment of the Committee also sublimes itself and the amendments submitted by a group of MPs, which respected counterpart Gordana Komic and cited, for the reason that we are fully agreed that the remaining of such a member in the proposed amendments and additions would actually be a direct violation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Republic of Serbia has ratified since 2009. Of course, such a discriminatory provision, in addition, which is, therefore, discriminatory, public notebooks are not in any way authorised, cannot in any way be authorised to establish those facts metrically, which are specifically cited by the draft laws which are being removed by such an amendment of the Committee, but also by the amendment of the Group of MEPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20310	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20311	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, members of the ministry, respected colleagues who discussed that the amendment by the Committee accepted the amendment of the DS Group, dropped out to say that this amendment included Mr Đurisic's amendment and the group of MPs who submitted it, because at the same time the Committee had to accept Mr Đurisic's amendment and the group of MPs, because it was the same and united by his amendment and amendments Mr Đurisic and the group of MPs and Gordana Comic, and a group of MPs. So it's an amendment that contains both the one and the other amendments that have been submitted by these two groups of MPs. It should be said that this amendment has been accepted, among other things, and that the demands have come from organisations that protect disabled persons, persons with poor eyesight, and so forth, that I do not list everything. In this way, we have come to meet all these organisations, and at the same time we have accepted amendments submitted by fellow Members, and in this way we believe that the text of the law will be improved. I am also sure that Mr. Minister will accept on behalf of the Government this amendment and that it will become an integral part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20312	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20313	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, I just want to say that, here, this amendment and today's work shows the importance of parliamentary debate. The importance of the laws being delivered to parliament in time, and that if there is enough time, any legislative proposal can be improved, including this one. We have come to know this law from his arrival in the Assembly until the beginning of the debate and the moment we were able to give amendments, we had a little over 24 hours. And if these amendments and the addition of the law, I say, for four and a half months, worked, or did not work so much, but certainly for one two months, worked and coordinated the working groups of the representatives of the Justice Ministry, the Bar of Lawyers, means excellent lawyers, however, it is shown that some things, may not have been best predicted, and that the amendments to the MPs, in this particular case from two parliamentary groups, so that the amendment of the Committee on Justice united them into one amendment, we will advance the bill in one very important area. I just want to point out, once again, and point out why it is important for parliament to realize that role it is doing, to work within the appropriate deadlines, because that way we will improve the laws and that will ultimately make the citizens of this country better. They will have better quality laws, laws that will better protect their interests and allow them to exercise their rights in a better way. So I call on the minister, that in future work, if there is, since I see that resignations are still missing, stop the practice of sending us laws by emergency procedure, the laws that we get 24 hours plus one two hours before the debate starts, because then we will avoid the situation that three times within a few months we are adopting one of those same laws, like this Public Records Act, which we are discussing today, is on the agenda for the third time, in the last five, six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20314	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20315	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have listened carefully to all the previous speakers under this amendment, and I have to react. I agree in one thing, so really this proposal to amend and supplement the law was written by top legal experts. I'm sorry that the representatives of the association who complained and sent the letter did not consult these legal experts, because the discrimination of the person you mentioned was something that absolutely, absolutely, was not suggested to be sharpened by this change and supplement, and I'll tell you why. If individuals were such fighters, were they from opposition or positional parties, for the rights of those who do not see them, and which are covered by this bill, how did they not respond to the Law on the non-partisan procedure, where they were alleged to have been exposed to the same discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by September 1st, this regime existed for these persons before an outsider's judge in every court, and they couldn't put together a single agreement on traffic immobility without an outsider's judge, whose role now takes place by the public register. Are you aware, I will also respect the Committee's proposal and everything that the National Assembly adopts, but by adopting this amendment, the property interests of these persons are being brought into a worse position than the situation in which they were until 1 September of last year, or until the moment of adoption of this law. Because it is very clear that positive discrimination is allowed in cases where it is necessary to protect property, legal and other interests of persons who are past their will, in one part in an unequal situation. I'm sorry I kept talking. I'm so limited in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20316	I let go because of the importance of the answer. The 5th amendment was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Minister, you need to make sure that you accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20317	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20318	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogradović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blaža Bradic and Dusan Petrovic. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20319	Thank you, Madam President. As part of the discussion which was previously submitted to Article 5 before we knew about the Committee's amendment, our parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 5 which regulates which legal matters are drawn up in the form of a public record. The amendment proposed that the word “contracts” be replaced by “Agreement” in Section 1. “Agreements” in point 3. “Agreements” in the term “Agreements” in point 3. “Agreements” in the term “Agreements”. The proposed amendment introduces a solution that is in line with the uniform methodological rules for the making of rules, because these rules are laid down in a uniform manner whenever possible, which in some members the promoter respected, but did not respect all the members. This amendment has been adopted, but I cannot express the satisfaction that the amendment has been adopted, I would be more pleased if the motioner had more fundamentally complied with the rules and if we had not received the draft laws with such technical errors and had not arrived in an emergency procedure, because within 24 hours it is really difficult to correct and all technical mistakes, and to deal with it essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20320	Thank you. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20321	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Selakovic, the honourable guests and guest from the Ministry of Justice and the esteemed president of the National Assembly, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration. I will try to explain this amendment once again, since the government refused to accept our amendment, I will comment on the government's argument with two previous remarks, Minister Selakovic. Please do not use an argument in your dialogue with the MPs - and do not react earlier? We're discussing something like you just did to Mr. Selakovic, we're discussing something now on the agenda, don't bring us back to the past, let's look into the future, Mr. Selakovic, let's respond to what's now a topic. Mr Selakovic, please don't be here when you get angry about something to yell at the MPs and that's where the president of the National Assembly might be able to intervene, if you conclude you're wrong about something, say I'm wrong, and don't be angry instead, Mr Selakovic. Those were two previous notes. Now I would like to try to explain our amendment to Article 7. Here, in Article 7, we want to change attitude 2. In that position 2 is written – in the form of publicly-recorded (soliminized documents), they are concluded in particular; and now we have three points of what is being concluded. We have suggested that this position of Article 7 of this Bill be changed and that it be read as such - in the form of a public-recorded (solumnified documents); and now follows our supplement which I believe should nevertheless be accepted - i.e. documents certified (legalised) by the parties or one party in a unilateral legal business, in accordance with the law governing the certification, signature, manuscript and transcription, shall be concluded, or confirmed in particular; and then three points as set out in Article 7. That's our proposal. We have explained our proposal, I think very clearly and we have written in one sentence the following – we believe that both forms of solemnisation and legalisation should be equally represented here, which is particularly respecting the legal tradition of our country and we believe that this is a very important argument. The government has rejected this amendment. The government's argument is this - amendments are not accepted for reasons of the provision of Article 7. Proposal for a law amending Article 93 The Law on Public Registration refers to the confirmation (solmning) of a private document, and does not correct the party's signing authority. But, I ask you then, since I am not satisfied with this explanation, that Mr Selakovic may be further precise on how this argument can be used to absolutely undo our reasoning which requires that both forms be equal, which respects our legal tradition. So based on what you said, I don't see the strength of the argument, I see only one attitude as we could say just the attitude we change that and that. Maybe I don't understand things, I'm not a lawyer, but Mr. Selakovic, I was also in August when we talked and in early November when we were just talking about the same things, I was trying to convince you of another approach. I spoke then with restraint, I'm not a lawyer, and it turns out that you as a lawyer are wrong. I am now surprised that you are not more careful and careful to explain why the government does not accept any amendments to the opposition? Mr Selakovic, in the light of this bill, you have said here – the adoption of these laws ends with a strike of lawyers, and I have told you Mr Selakovic, we greatly appreciate that the lawyers have managed to vote for legal security and the rule of law, but we have also told you Mr Selakovic and the lawyers that the law is always about meeting the interests of the addressee, and addressed here to Mr Selakovic, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that means that we need to think carefully here and whether to adopt any amendments whose content affects the fact that the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are better achieved. Mr. Selakovic, look out, you've, so far, both ours and ours and the lawyer's proposals, mostly refused, I think, in an arrogant way. In the principle debate, at least in relation to my 11th thesis, you defended yourself with silence, Minister Selakovic. How is that Minister Selakovic? Here you have not recently received treatment and the statutes of one Foyerbach, and you have not been able to answer these remarks, to explain a little more precisely why you do not accept some amendments, Mr Selakovic, and besides, you have said here, I am now using this as an argument for the adoption of our amendment to Article 7, you have said here, I have written, that it is not a problem for you to say – I was wrong; when you are wrong. Mr Selakovic, did you make a mistake in the last four and a half months, I ask you to discuss the amendment of Zoran Zivkovic and me to Article 7 of this first draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, you say that? Tell Mr Selakovic - I was wrong; and in our debate here and in further discussions, let us together try not to make similar mistakes and similar errors. Mr Selakovicu, an arrogant approach will not bring satisfaction to the interests of the addressees of these laws, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That arrogant way won't continue to satisfy our lawyers who fought, and I'm asking you to change your approach, and you're changing that approach in two ways, I think. First, by showing one responsibility and seriousness in relation to writing explanations why amendments are not accepted, and perhaps more importantly, Mr Selakovic, by claim – you were wrong. Say it here at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20322	Thank you. You've wasted your time otherwise for discussion. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20323	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Pavicevic is likely to want to step up his argument against the bill and against the minister of justice, Mr Selakovic, used the terms of the thesis and, if I am not mistaken, highlighted 11 thesis against the bill amending the Law on Public Records and now mentioned Foyerbah. Ludwig Foyerbach was a 19th - century German philosopher, and Karl Marks wrote "Thesis on Foyerbach". The question now is for Mr Pavicevic, since he belongs to a party that is completely opposed to Marxism by ideology, does this mean that he now has a copernican trade and has become a proponent of Marxist philosophy from a liberal, European, citizen politician? Does this mean that at one of the next sessions, we will hear about "Capital" tirads, that proleters of all countries are to be united, that the bourgeois order in the Republic of Serbia should be brought down? Does this mean that in the place of the "God of Justice" we will hear a proposal to intonate the "International", etc.? What you do not understand, Mr Pavicevic, is very clearly written in the Government's proposal, i.e. in the government's explanation why it does not accept your amendment, Article 93, or the provisions of Article 7 of the Law amending Article 93. The Law on Public Registration refers to confirmation, i.e. to the solemnisation of a private document, and not to the approval of the parties to the correction. In other words, I'm sorry if I'm wrong, but in other words you and Mr. Zivkovic don't seem to understand the difference between soloisation and legalization. To solemnize, i.e. to confirm the contents of a private document means to metrically enter into the contents of the document itself, to determine whether or not what is in the correct document is true. It's a solemnization. It is the conversion, i.e. giving the character of a public document to a person who is originally private. The legalisation, i.e. a sign-over, means that the public notebook only determines that the document is signed by the person whose name and name is indicated on the correct. Thus, solemnisation is one legal institute, and legalisation, or overa signature, is a completely different and completely different legal institute. What you also do not seem to know to me, is that solemnisation as a legal institute in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia has existed long before the adoption of the Law on Public Records since 2011, and before these amendments to the Law on Public Registration that we are talking about today. For example, it existed in the 1995 Legacy Act, if I'm not mistaken. The law provides for a life support contract to be drawn up by a judge. After the contract is drawn up, the judge reads a life-long contract on the maintenance of the parties and then accesss the signing of the contract, so this is not some exclusive newspaper in our legal system. The other thing is that some MPs for certain legal institutes don't know, but, you know, I would never boast with my ignorance. Before you engage in one matter that is not originally yours, because you are a Marxist, and you are engaged in Marxist philosophy, you reminded us of Marks' thesis on Foyerbach, the principles of dialectic materialism. There's a nice book, Mr. Pavicevic. Also written by Karl Marks, it belongs to his early works. It is called the "Holy Family" with the title "Critic Critic Criticism Against Bruno Bauer and the Company". That's what you do, Mr. Pavicevic. You're critical of mere criticism. You haven't really gotten into the content of the bill, but feel free to continue criticizing Bruno Bauer and the company, so feel free to call on Marks. You're not the only one going back to your ideal roots.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20324	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20325	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Selakovic, the honored guests and guest from the Ministry of Justice, are three things I want to say here in the replica of Mr Martinovic. It is very good, and that is the first thing, that we are finally talking in this Assembly about political ideas in parliamentary practice. My experience in work and discussions with the MPs of the Progressive Party is constantly returning to some past, you, the former regime, and finally we have even through Marks. The second thing, Mr. Martinovic and Mrs. President, for Karl Marks on this side is, just to let you know, Mr. Borislav Stefanovic, Mr. Martinovic, not me. Further information, just so you know, the manifesto of the Communist Party of Karl Marks was first able to buy for pounds, not for laundry, Mr Martinovic. In the west, it was first read, Mr. Martinovic. Third thing, we need one adjustment here. I don't know why you're defending Minister Selakovic, who defends himself by being silent against these 11 thesis? I didn't say it was 11 thesis on a bad bill. I said it was 11 thesis on irresponsible Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, Mr. Martinovic. If we are already talking about political ideas in parliamentary practice, it is up to us to listen carefully to what we say exactly what is our position and our opinion. Please, I didn't dedicate Mr. Selakovic to Foyerbach. I am here, gentlemen and Madam President of the National Assembly, saying that Mr Selakovic almost received the treatment of Ludwig Foyerbach, Mr Martinovic, almost, and that is a big difference, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20326	National MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20327	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Mr. Pavicevic is partly right. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Thank you. Where you're right, Mr. Pavicevic, I have no problem saying that. So it's true that the Communist Party manifest was first published in London and could really buy for pounds first, not for laundry. That's right. What you skipped to say is that this communist experiment was first tested in Russia, not in the West. They didn't accept him in the West. As for the Democratic Party and Mr Stefanovic, whom you mentioned, let me now not be an interpreter of their ideology, the Democratic Party was created as a classic civil political party in 1989. The Democratic Party is still calling for its famous predecessors, Ljuba Davidovic and Milan Grol. If you explain to me what connection Ljuba Davidovic and Milan Grol have to communism, here I will admit that I do not know anything about Serbian political history and will gladly come to your lectures. Just one more note, Mr. Pavicevic. Here, some MPs of the former regime mentioned the need to pass a law on protection against fear. The bill was proposed by Dragic Joksimovic, an MP for the Democratic Party in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia Assembly, otherwise by Draža Mihajlovic's lawyer in a process conducted in 1946. If you explain to me that Dragic Joksimovic and Draža Mihajlovic have ties to Marxism, with the manifesto of the Communist Party, published first in London and not in Moscow, I will apologize again and tell you that I do not know anything about Serbian political history.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20328	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. We're opening a new circle of replicas. You two have talked a lot about Marxism. We'll give Borislav Stefanovic our word. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Please, we have a good debate now. Don't beg me, please. I want to go back to the law, but I have to give my word to Borislav Stefanovic. We're opening a new circle of replicas. You mentioned him twice that he was in charge of Marxism. I have to give my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20329	Okay, that's not why I answered. I answered Mr. Martinovic's line. So, there is no Democratic Party in connection with communism, you have made a huge mistake here, otherwise I would not answer, nor do they have Grol and Davidovic etc. Although there was Dr. Ribara and Mr. Smiljanic. There were all kinds of people, you know. In our party, there was always freedom of opinion and speech. I don't know what it's like with you guys. What I do know is that we are proud of all these traditions of fighting and freedom, regardless of left-wing commitment. Don't go after those two things. Also, how much Ljuba Davidovic and the lawyer who defended Draž Mihajlovic have to do with communism, imagine how much it has to do with Vojislav Seselj and Nikola Pasic. The same relationship is here between Vojislav Seselj and Nikola Pasic. Here, if you explain to me the connection between those two, or Alexander Vukic and Nikola Pasic or Weber, or I don't know who but, or Luther. Luther plus two years, because he can't even stab the date. So, I think this debate is now going in a completely unnecessary direction. I look forward and I like to talk about ideological definition, I like to talk about valuable attitudes, I like to talk about political platforms and programs of our parties, but I think we're just bothering citizens with unnecessary things that I really don't think they're interested in right now, but with great joy I'll always respond to any exchange of views in that sense, because I think that and that what we have to say in a different Europe that is rebelling and waking up, a different Europe that is now emerging as we talk here, and you're still talking about traditional divisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20330	Thank you. Let us return to the text of the law, or amendments. (Alexander Martinovic, from town: Replica. ) The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinović, two minutes and let's get back to the law because I don't think this is really interesting for the public. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You don't, you're done. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: President, I cannot get the right to the replica. You're the one who's finished with the polemics. Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not understand what Mr Stefanovic said, so who also mentioned Vojislav Seselj and Nikola Pasic here and who compared Alexander Vukic and Nikola Pasic, that is, Alexander Vukic and Max Weber. I didn't hear that today. You may have heard. What I was about to say again, by apologizing in advance, and perhaps I misread your ideology, or by saying the programming definitions of DS. The Democratic Party was formed in 1919. The first president was Ljuba Davidovic, and after his death Milan Grol. Milan Grol was even the first vice president for a time, and then the president of the Yugoslav government in London. You restored the work, when I say "you," I mean DS, in November 1989. Don't forget that in the DS there were people like Kosta Čavoskog, Nikola Milosevic, Vojislav Kostunica, etc. So all these people, by their political, ideological, philosophical beliefs, have nothing to do with what you're trying to present yourselves as some kind of social democratic party today. You were originally not created as a social democratic party. You have the first right to change your ideology, but originally you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20332	Thank you. We ended a short history of political life. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veslinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20333	Thank you, Madam President. We have submitted an amendment to Article 7 amending Article 93, so that in Article 93, paragraph 2 in points 1 and 3 of the word "contracts" is replaced by the word "contract". This is according to the same principle as the amendment that I was talking about, because the uniform methodological rules for the making of regulations are intended to apply uniformly whenever possible in laws and regulations. We wanted to comply with the unique methodological rules. I answered even though this amendment was adopted, because I would like to ask Mr. Selakovic as a representative of the motionary. When the promoter adopted the amendments, he probably assessed them as good, and could you not conclude on the basis of these amendments that our parliamentary group, the social democratic orientations, really want to participate constructively in the work of the Assembly and that it submits constructive amendments that will improve the text of the law, because we also take care of the state of Serbia, but also of all citizens who live in Serbia and their interests? That's why we always submit amendments to which we want to express our views. If you'd analyzed our amendments as well as our amendments when you last changed the Law on Public Records, I don't think there would have been a situation in society that happened, so that there wouldn't have been a strike of lawyers, because we've just proposed changes that are now being adopted. But then you saw our amendments as opposition and negative and you didn't want to seriously consider them and adopt them. So I urge you to focus more seriously on the analysis of our amendments in the future, so that we don't get into a situation where we go back to the same questions over and over again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20334	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20335	Thank you. On Article 8, which is added after Article 93, the names of members and members from 93a to 93dj, we have submitted an amendment relating to Article 93g, where Article 1 states: "The public notebook confirms the correctness if printed on paper, written in accordance with the official use of the language and the letter and whose margins are sufficiently wide enough to connect it with the issuer". We have tabled the amendment by requesting that this point 1 be changed and that it reads: “The public notebook confirms the correctness that is written in accordance with the regulations governing the official use of language and letter and printed on paper so that it can be connected to the emissary. ” The proposed amendment sets out in a more understandable and clear way how the document confirmed by the public notebook should look. We believe that the document cannot be written in accordance with the official use of the language and the letter, but only in accordance with the regulations governing the issue, or regulate the official use of the language and the letter. Also, we find it inappropriate for the law to determine that on some right margin they should be wide enough. It's a very relevant notion of what's broad enough. This amendment of ours, of course, has been rejected and with a very short explanation, that a more comprehensive or clearer solution from the bill. We suggest that you reconsider our amendment, given that text writers do not often work on the application of the law, and that we who sit here are working on the application of the law and we have worked back many years. For example, I have experience in administration, local self-government and law enforcement. I think sometimes we feel better about what's easier to apply, how to make the amendment easier to apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20336	Thank you. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20337	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman of Mr. Bečić, the Honored Minister Selaković, the Honored Guests of the Ministry and especially the guest of the Ministry, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 8, which is scheduled to amend a new member of 93a, b, v, g, d, ð, Minister Selaković. In that article we only have one species, it may seem to be a technical requirement, but I think it's substantial after all. We believe that the order of words here should change and that the public order goes before the regulations, and ultimately good customs go. I must say here, as part of the argument for the adoption of this amendment, Mr Selakovic, that I am a great and consistent advocate of the concept of the rule of law, and I believe that it is here and noted, and for Mr Martinovic, to say, and a great and consistent advocate of the philosophy of freedom, respected gentlemen, on which one part came this amendment. For all these other issues of Marxism, Marxist, Mr. Martinovic, to contact Mr. Stefanovic, as I said. Another addition to Mr. Becic, I, by the way, am one of the teachers, professor, here to say once again, who is engaged in the subject of modern political ideology, namely the subject of modern political ideology. I have to say, for our debate here and precision, and Marxism is an important tradition within modern, political ideologies respected gentlemen, but that doesn't mean that someone who says that a tradition is important, that they automatically become a advocate of that tradition. Now, there's been a dispute, a misunderstanding, and it seems to me that the misunderstanding with Minister Selakovic remains a respected gentleman.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20338	Time, Mr. Pavicevic. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new Article 8a. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20339	I propose that the amendment of the Committee be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20340	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that the amendment has been accepted by a representative of the government. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blaža Bradic and Dusan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is made by Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20341	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted an amendment that we have tried to guarantee, to ensure that the Ministry, or the Government will not deceive the lawyers. Me and the SDS will vote for these laws, we will uphold these laws. I will state five reasons why we will do this, but accepting this amendment would guarantee that it will also have full use of value. We will vote for these laws primarily for the reasons that lawyers will be able to do their jobs again from the next days, to deal with the affairs that the minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia have taken away from them and to prevent them from working, to earn and to serve the citizens, of course, with the compensation they receive for it. That's why they went to school, they usually graduated from high-level colleges, they ended up, they passed a judicial exam, and they have the competence to do these jobs. The minister and the government have taken that opportunity away from them and these laws are giving back the possibility that they're doing their job again, and that's why we're voting for these laws. We will vote for these laws for the reason why, Chairman, please if I exceed you will take away from me from the head of the Parliament's time group. So, we're going to vote for these laws for the reason that citizens will be able to make their own contracts again in the coming days, which will also be able to do so by lawyers and that citizens will be able to empower lawyers to do so on their behalf, which so far, in most cases, was not an option under this law. I've asked multiple questions as to how it's possible that a university professor, let's say, a law professor can't make up one purchase contract, but it's been given exclusively to notaries. On the third hand, for a third reason, I will vote for this law because by adopting these laws, the defeat of the minister and government will be recognised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20342	Mr. Veselinovic, please return to your amendment. We're not at a principle debate, we're at a discussion in detail. At this point, your amendment is to Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20343	I'd like to ask you not to interrupt. If you'd read my amendment, you'd know what I'm talking about. Therefore, my amendment has been submitted with the aim of ensuring that this law is applied and that no abuse by the government, or the minister, is made so that lawyers do not play. In that sense, I believe it is important that by accepting these laws, it is recognised in some way that the minister was wrong, that the government was wrong and that it was the first political defeat of this government. But to clarify the exact purpose of our amendment, Minister Selakovic. So, we asked you by this amendment to submit within six months a mandatory report on the application of these provisions, adopted by the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the preliminary opinion of the Serbian Bar or the position of their competent authority. You said in response that such provisions usually go in transitional and final terms. On the one hand, you're right because we haven't had the opportunity to react to those members that change by law and you know it. In addition, in your explanation you wrote that you did not accept this amendment because certainly the committees have the right to discuss the implementation of the law, application of the law, etc. That's true, Mr. Selakovic, but that's not happening. This does not happen because many of the laws adopted in this congregation are not applied. With this amendment, we wanted to create an obligation for your ministry to report to the committee responsible whether this law is applicable or not. What is our fear, Mr. Selakovic? Given the way you approached the notaries, the way you approached their appointment and everything else, we felt it was of narrow party interest, even this kind of action, we felt it was bad that there were no provisions that made it clear what notaries couldn't do. Could it happen, Mr. Minister, and that's not said on the basis of a hunch, that happens in more orderly countries than we do, can it happen that the notaries using their official position, the public function they're doing, that they're also doing jobs that this law didn't give? Let's just say, is it impossible for you to assume that a notary or some associate of his will make up or make up some type of contract for the transport of moving things or other contracts and do some sort of master writing? I'm telling you again, there are experiences in countries more developed than ours where that happens. Or maybe they'll have a lawyer's office under quotes that might even be micro-terrorally close to make up contracts that the notary will refer to. That's why we thought it was necessary for you to submit a report within six months so that everything that was not forbidden here in the law is in some way practically made possible by the notaries. And what will the lawyers do? In that case, it will be without being able to show on its bodies that this law is applied in a particular section, without being applied in a particular section, but to be played. Is that intention or not intent? Why are there no negative provisions? I don't know. Perhaps when the law was passed for that, there was no need, but now that we have seen the intentions of your ministry and this government in relation to lawyers, and in favour of notaries, we believe that such provisions were necessary in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20344	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20345	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, first of all, are absolutely not true that the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have suffered any defeat by proposing to the National Assembly a set of laws of which is one concerning public records. I have to remind the MPs of a former regime of one elemental fact that every lawyer needs to know, and I think Mr. Minister will agree with me. The state is by definition, so of course the Republic of Serbia as a state, an organisation with a monopoly of physical coercion, so to speak, and the state is legally stronger than any other entity, including our distinguished colleagues from Serbia's Bar Association, and be assured that the state could solve this problem in a completely different way. The state's headed the other way. It's a democratic path. By way of conversation and agreement with lawyers. Whoever deals with some agreements and comes to the National Assembly and says, "We have made an agreement with the Law Chamber of Justice of Serbia, they have agreed to amendments to the Law on Public Records and other amendments to the laws that we are discussing these days, then it is not defeat, it is victory. The victory of reason, the victory of democracy, the victory of civilised dialogue, and the former regime has been defeated many times so far. It was defeated, for example, when the Statute of the AP Vojvodina was adopted. You didn't want to talk to anyone at the time. Who the code said one critical word against the Statute he was... (Janko Veseinovic throws.) )......................................................................................................... Let Mr. Becic go. Feel free to throw Mr. Janko Veselinović away. It's no problem. So whoever said anything that was contrary to what was written in the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina he was declared ignorant, extremist, someone who was trying to end the autonomy of the Vojvodina, the great-Serbian, ask God what kind of grades were not given. In the end, it turned out that the Statute of the AP Vojvodina was unconstitutional in about 80% of its provisions and this was made very clear by the Constitutional Court and left the assembly of the AP Vojvodina within six months to bring the Statute into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I don't understand one thing. Minister Selakovic and the government of the Republic of Serbia have shown good will to speak to colleagues from Serbia's Bar Association. Those conversations lasted. They used to be more or less tormented, sometimes they were easier, sometimes they were harder, but there was a compromise, there was an agreement. And now you who didn't want to talk to anyone, you who were convinced that you were always right, you who were convinced that your political leader was a half god who was understood in everyone, who was both the president of the state and the Prime Minister and the president of the party and who knows what he was not, who had that move "giv mi fiive" when he came to an international conference, now you say that the minister of justice was defeated. No one here has been defeated. The minister of justice and the government of the Republic of Serbia have shown how strong they are. They could have shown it in a different way. Be safe. There were a thousand ways for lawyers not to meet and I wouldn't be expressing my personal opinion right now. Maybe Minister Selakovic disagrees with me. Here, I have the right to say my personal opinion as a lawyer. The legal order of the Republic of Serbia would not have collapsed and the government would have gone some other way. For example, I know of one thing to say to the lawyer's Chuck, sorry to use that term, that any decision by the Serbian Bar of Lawyers to suspend lawyers could fall before the Administrative Court. An action shall be brought for the initiation of the administrative dispute and, while the administrative dispute is being conducted, a request shall be submitted to delay the execution of the Attorney's Chamber's solution until the decision of the Administrative Court has been taken. Any lawyer suspended by the Serbian Bar Association could continue his work and the Bar of Lawyers could not do anything to him. So don't you think now the government has capitulated, had nowhere else to go, bent her spine and now everything someone's been looking for has been won. That's not true. What I also want to say as a lawyer, and again I express my personal opinion. You know, I get the impression that the MPs of the former regime have brought lawyers down on real estate agents. When I listen to MPs of the former regime, I have the impression that lawyers do nothing else in Serbia but put together sales contracts. That's not true at all. You have a large number of respected lawyers in both Belgrade and Novi Sad and Nis, and in Kragujevac who deal with some other legal cases entirely. Simply people don't want to be involved in the construction of a real estate transport contract because they specialize in criminal matters and these amendments and the additions of the Law on Public Records, the transport of immovableity, the talks at the end of the Justice Ministry and the Law Chamber of Serbia, believe me, they didn't have much interest. I personally know a lot of such lawyers, and I believe you know them, too, Mr. Veselinovic, and it seems to me that you're humiliating the barrister's esnaf when you bring them down to agents who are involved in drawing up sales contracts on immovable property. They're not that. The lawyer's job description is a lot wider. What I also disagree with, and that is ultimately one question that can be problemed both theoretically and practically. First of all, you're wrong when you say that the amendments to the Law on Public Records, which we discussed last year and adopted, that lawyers were deprived of the right to draw up contracts. It's not. So that's not true. It's a delusion that's been going through our public for months that lawyers have been deprived of the right to draw up contracts and that the right is monopolized for the benefit of public notebooks. That's the first thing that's not true. Another thing that can also be troubled, you now say – the Ministry of Justice, imagine, has taken the right to a university professor to draw up a real estate contract. Isn't some university professor qualified to put together a real estate contract? Well, of course it is. But now I'm asking one other question, theoretical question. According to our Code of Criminal Procedure, who is the only one who can be a defense attorney in criminal proceedings? Lawyer. Now I'm asking you, purely theoretically, I know it's not the subject of a debate, I know it won't lead to an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, but here's a theoretical question. Wait, by your logic, isn't there a regular professor of law who teaches criminal law or criminal law and is not a lawyer who couldn't be a better lawyer than some lawyer? I think you could. But here's the law he predicted that we're a lawyer could be a defense attorney. Now let's turn the story some other way. Now I could ask you, excuse me, does that mean there's a monopoly of attorneyship in criminal proceedings? It seems to me that there is and I don't mind, but I just want to tell you that these problems that we're talking about these days and that we've been talking about for months, I think a good part of the public doesn't understand what's going on here, among other things, and because some of the parties of the former regimes systematically deceive the public about the fact that the Ministry of Justice has taken something away from someone, so it's coming back to him now, etc. This whole matter is quite complex and quite complex. You're trying to simplify her for day-to-day political reasons to harm the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party will not allow that. We have shown by arguments that no one has capitulated here, that no one has suffered any defeat here, but that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown something that no government has shown so far, and that is to talk to the Esnafian associations. Don't forget, there are currently talks with another esnaf in Serbia, with an enlightening esnaf. Maybe there's going to be conversations and they've been running around with a doctor's esnaf, and I don't see anything wrong with that at all. What was bad during the former regime was that you didn't want to talk to anyone. You've broken everything over your knee. You think the weakness of the Republic of Serbia is that she sat down, so she talked to lawyers today, educators, doctors or I don't know who else. We need to talk, it's one of the values of civilised and democratic society. What I still want to point out, it's again a mistake of the former regime, you think that whenever the government of the Republic of Serbia talks to someone, whenever the Serbian government gets through some blow under the belt, he comes from the West or from the East, he comes from internal or external factors, you think it's the weakness of the government. The fact that Alexander Vukic is not, for example, an example. commented on every statement by Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, do you think it is the weakness of Alexander Vukic, the weakness of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Not commenting on every outcry, hatred that comes from the parties of the former regime, do you think that's a weakness? No, it just shows the strength of people who run the Republic of Serbia, people who run the governments of the Republic of Serbia. This shows that Serbia can be guided differently than you have led it, that it can be managed civilised, that it can be run democratically, but that it always has the highest national and state interest in its eyes. The government of the Republic of Serbia has also shown this in these talks with lawyers, and if it could have been different, believe me, Mr. Veselinovic, that it could have, but this is better because the government has shown that it can and should have a conversation with anyone, whether we always like the speaker or not. It's a new practice, and what good luck if you respected it while you were in power, Serbia wouldn't be in the situation it's in right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20346	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Wait a minute, you'll get the word, just to respond to Mr. Vesenovic for a drop from the scene. Mr. Veseinovic, you wanted to deny the previous speaker the right you asked for, because you said that since you had the need in the amendment to speak widely about anything because of a report that should be submitted by the ministry, you wanted the same right to deny now to the other side to explain equally widely why this amendment is not to be accepted. (Janko Vesenović, from the city: You warned me, you did not warn him. That's why I reacted. ) But after your finding that you have to explain widely why you have to submit a report, I let the other side do so, that it widely explains why it feels that this amendment should not be accepted. Thank you. The word has been made by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Janko Veselinović, from the site: I was looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20347	Thank you, Chairman. I think you should have given me your word immediately after the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is not disputed, I wanted to point out, and now I point to the violation of a 106 member who is being manipulated by the presentation of the MP, Dr. Janko Veseinovic. Given that this is an entirely imperative norm of the Rules of Procedure which says that only the agenda point is spoken of, therefore, only the agenda point, and instead of just the agenda point, there has been a lot to talk about, where lawyers have been misused in terms of political pamphlets and political rhetoric. This is not necessary for lawyers, no one will adopt or use law in terms of abuse of political pamphlets, so it doesn't have to do the opposition in a specific case. What is most important is that the agreement reached, the verification without the assessment of the losers and the winners and the lawyers accepts the fact that in no case does not want a conjoined mood after the agreement, but exclusively that the agreement is seen in the role of the citizens. So I ask you, Mr. Chairman, that in the future, not only in relation to MP Janko Veselinovic, but to any other MP, you have in mind the fact that we are stepping down from the amendment and discussing something else, and we are misusing an institution that has constitutional and legal character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20348	Thank you. I apologize for telling me that Mr. Veselinovic cannot explain his amendment differently, but in a broader explanation, speaking of everything and everything to convince us that we should accept this amendment. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20349	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Minister Selakovic, honored guests and guest from the Ministry of Justice, the Honorable Chairman of Bečić, please allow me to explain that Article 103 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, and don't interrupt me before two minutes pass, which you usually do. In the position of Article 103, the Honored Chairman of Bečić, he writes - the MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the conduct of the President, in this case the Chairman, the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly, which is in progress, immediately after the infringement has been done. Mr. National MP Neđo Jovanovic appeared shortly before to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure 106, and instead of explaining how Mr. Martinovic, in his speech, injured the Rules of Procedure, and you did not intervene, Mr. Neđo Jovanovic appeared at the performance of Mr. Vesenovic, who spoke before Mr. Martinovic. Mr. Becic, it was your obligation to stop, here's Mr. Jovanovic confirming. Now, Mr. Jovanovic, you've nodded your head a little while ago. It was your obligation to interrupt Mr Jovanovic, to tell him not to talk about Mr Vesenović, who held the Rules of Procedure, but to speak about Mr Martinovic and that Mr Neđo Jovanovic, although his party is in this ruling coalition, is free to say that one SNS MP acted in the Assembly so that you did not warn him, which is why you injured the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Becic. Please acknowledge that you have injured the Rules of Procedure and, on the basis of article 109, give yourself a warning measure, Your Honor, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20350	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. If I had interrupted you earlier, I would have said that you were wrong because Mr. Jovanovic had reported long before Mr. Martinovic, as well as five other MPs, but I did not notice at that time that Mr. Jovanovic appeared after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, but I thought I would have reported after the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: So can tomorrow? ) Mr. Pavicevic, allow me, you are a professor, a respected professor, do not throw away. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Thank you for this professor. ) Mr Pavicevic, I also have no need to repeat the explanation I gave to Mr Jovanovic, to apologize for being persuaded by Mr Veselinovic that he could otherwise not explain his amendment, except in such a way that he would talk about everything and anything so that he could explain why the government should report to the committee in charge. Do you want the Assembly to plead? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20351	Thank you, Your Honor. I will try only to talk about the amendment to the proposed article 9, which was submitted by a group of MPs. In fact, I don't mind when the amendments are filed, even, in fact, I'm glad, since I always start to think that the intention of the applicant is the most important and that the intention of the amendment is always good and always in the interest of making better regulation, but here I have to mention that so far there has been no practice that any ministry has submitted any reports to any resolution board on the analysis of the effects of any law. I'm not ruling out that in some future period, something like that might be cellificial. In addition, it is mentioned here that such provisions are usually introduced into the transitional and final provisions of a law, which is absolutely not true, because such provisions and such a member never enter into transitional and final provisions, not only of this law, but of any other law. This amendment discusses a report on the effects. I think the effects should be assessed long before and the submission of the legal proposal itself. Let's say, I'm sorry that our laws can't contain an evaluation clause, such as that, for example, exists in Switzerland, where the proposer is obliged to, if the concrete law doesn't give a result of the period to which it was brought, be obliged automatically to pass a new law, not to amend and supplement. Such an amendment does not make a commitment for the Ministry, for one simple reason. The Ministry's commitment stems from what was concluded on 8 January 2014, and it is called an agreement by experts from Serbia's Bar Association and the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said that members of expert teams have agreed to further improve the co-operation of the Serbian Ministry of Justice and the Law Chamber, especially with regard to legislative activity. I'd be glad to see something like this in the future and be manipulative. In addition, I also have one completely principled objection to the proposed text of the amendment. It is said here - Article 9 is amended and reads: "The ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary is obliged to submit within six months of the date of entry into force of this law to the competent committee of the National Assembly of Serbia a report on the effects of the application of this law with the previously obtained opinion of the competent authority of the Serbian Chamber of Lawyers." You see, today we are discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration, and then, in the end, it cannot stand as an institute: "A lawyer's chamber of Serbia", it should already stand: "Publisher's Chamber". That would be some logic of my own, and in that I rule out what's legal. After all, I have to mention what has been mentioned here many times, and what many people are bidding on. The attorneyate is now exceeding much more than the Esnafian association. It's a constitutional category. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is one that, not only recognizes, but gives the lawyer the legitimacy of the legal service provider. That's why today, without quality law, there's no quality justice. Lawyership is part of the judiciary, and that's why I'm saying that she's much more than just an esnafian association. In this place, I have to point out that, say, in recent times, we've had a lawyer strike in France. It lasted twice as long as a law enforcement strike in Serbia, but ended by always coming out to meet and to the greatest extent precisely the demands of lawyers. I won't talk about that political part, if this matter could be solved differently, because this different solution would lead to some kind of repressive measures, and that would absolutely not be good for our country, either by government or by the Bar Association and by law as a decent, honest and pleasant profession in Serbia at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20352	Thank you, Miss Batic. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Just explain to me the basis for reporting by the replica, so I can estimate if you're right? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Mr. Veselinović spoke directly to me several times. ) It's not enough if it's not in a negative context. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Several times Mr. Vesenović addressed me by name and last name and misread my presentation. He was talking about the former regime. Therefore, any MP of the former regime could contact and demand a right to replication. (Janko Vesenovic, from the post: Eleven minutes exclusively referred to my discussion and spoke about my party president. If it's about the party president, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20353	I will taxfully answer Mr. Martinovic's questions. When he defined what the state is, or what the law is, he said it was a device of power in the hands of the state, that it was a legal system and a right. Mr. Martinovic, I taught at school that the state is a machine of power in the hands of the ruling class. It was 1985. It's a little anachronic definition, but if it were to apply now, it would be like this -- the apparatus of power in the hands of the Serbian Progressive Party. When it comes to an agreement with lawyers, it was reached on the basis of a four-and-a-half-month strike. What the Ministry has proposed is the text given by lawyers, and that is why it is the defeat of this ministry and this government. After all, if lawyers believed you, Mr. Selakovic, they wouldn't be sitting there. They would end the strike, Mr. Selakovic right away, and they wouldn't wait for this law to come into force. They're waiting for him to come into effect. On the other hand, when there was a debate, Mr Martinovic, in the principle of this law, some of your MPs said that this was not really about the will of lawyers to strike, but rather about being forced by their presidents and presidents of regional organisations. Your MP sitting in the second row said that and that's how he humiliated the profession. When it comes to the fact that you said that I wanted to turn the lawyer into a conclusion of a deal on the sale, no, Mr. Martinovic, this is about the solidarity of the lawyers who are due to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20354	You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20355	... The acts of lawyers who primarily do the work of solidarity... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20356	You can't talk that much, it's two minutes and 20 seconds. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20357	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been misquoted by Mr. Veselinovic. So, Mr. Vesenovicu, the definition of the state from the textbook Radomir Lukić reads – the state is an organisation with a monopoly of physical coercion. I said it. You guys tried to be funny, but I don't think that worked out for you. You said - state, it is the apparatus of power in the hands of the Serbian Progressive Party. Tell me, what force did Alexander Vukic, Nikola Selakovic use or anyone from the Serbian government when it comes to lawyers, who, by the way, are not here? You see ghosts here. The force, Mr. Veselinovic, unfortunately the citizens of Serbia, we could feel for example. In 2008, when Ranko Panic was brutally killed. Now I ask you, how are you not ashamed that, as an MP of the regime that killed people on the streets of Belgrade, he threw tear gas at them, special units of terror...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20358	Ambassador!
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20359	... Those who don't think the same way they do...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20360	Ambassador Martinovic, don't pretend you can't hear me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20361	... You're saying that the Republic of Serbia is a machine in the hands of the Serbian Progressive Party that conducts the force... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20362	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20363	First of all, I would like to thank the president of the National Assembly for warning Mr. Martinovic, but I think you had to give him a warning. So, in the harshest possible way, he insulted both my dignity and the dignity of the National Assembly, but also the citizens who, according to him, voted for some people who carried out violence. I'm not going to say anything right now about his party, about the violence she's waged. Indeed, you know enough about that. I will tell Mr. Martinovic about the citizens of Serbia who are watching this and about lawyers and about those who are interested in this topic, which is the fact that you said that you could have done it in a different way, which is kind of a threat. Which is a different way, except to get out of this agreement. What different way could that be applied to lawyers? You said that Mr. Vukic had never responded to the steps of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20364	What does that have to do with anything, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20365	He said it, he said it. Replica, he said it. He didn't have to, Mr. Martinovic to react to Vukic, he reacted to his official message, his...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20366	Please don't, Ambassador, be correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20367	Of course, I'd like to talk about the subject, not always talk about replacing the tendency to talk about the former regime. We're discussing today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20368	That's right, and the president of another country and so let's just put it aside and go back. Thank you for paying attention to that. You have to explain. I'm just asking you not to mention personalities that are not related to our country, if that's possible. Alexander Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20369	Dear President, you as a kind of lawyer know, as I know, as Mr. Veselinović knows, the state is by definition sovereign. Sovereignty means that you are in some way unlimited, that you are stronger than anyone, any organization that operates on your territory. It's a definition of sovereignty, but not to engage now in theoretical observations. You've misquoted me again, Mr. Veselinovic, you need to listen to me a little more carefully. I said literally, that Aleksandar Vukic, did not respond to every statement by Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, some of them did, but not to the vast majority. For example, he did not respond to a statement when Mrs Grabar Kitarovic said that when she was elected president, the Republic of Croatia will co-operate with neighbouring countries such as Vojvodina and Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20370	I'm sorry, that's what she said when she was already chosen and I'm just asking you to be specific.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20371	Aleksandar Vukic did not react to this, but said, I am not taking on all statements by Mrs Grabar Kitarovic, congratulating her on the election, and I hope that the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia will continue to lead the policy of good neighbourly relations, although it has made it very clear that many statements by Mrs Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic do not respond, that they undermine the good neighbourly relations between Serbia and Croatia, that they undermine the difficult peace created between the two countries. So you have to listen more carefully to what SNS MPs say, and what I said is still standing and I'm standing behind it. The regime you belonged to killed... . Ranko Panic. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20372	Thank you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Here you are, but you weren't exactly involved in their replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20373	Thank you, Madam President. Article 107 has been injured. So you're the one who had to do it now after my colleague repeated it and said, "I'm standing on what I said."
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20374	I turned off his microphone, you didn't hear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20375	Yeah, but you haven't noticed enough here that the regime killed Ranko Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20376	I turned off the microphone, it wasn't spoken.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20377	Twice, people accused of killing someone, which means they deliberately committed a murder. It is known or unknown, but you will know who is particularly responsible for this crime at this particular event, which was then organised by Mr. Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. So, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20378	Now what do you think of your words, that you've fought back equally, so I can punish both of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20379	No, but there's a responsibility that needs to be determined through the procedure, not that someone here is said to have killed someone. Watch out, next time. You know what I'd get if I said it in the Assembly. Not a warning, but three. And you know it very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20380	They wouldn't get on my side.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20381	Well, not with yours, but from Mr. Becic's would hasty, he makes two warnings at a time. You can't do that, Madam President. Please, therefore, this is not only a violation of dignity, but the harshest thing to say to someone by looking at us. The former regime, it's known to him that it's us from the DS or the SDS or from the SPS or from Rasim's party, we're the former regime. So we killed Ranko Panic. Well, that's a shame. He's still saying you're not ashamed of killing him. Well, wait, I think in this situation your reaction was seemed appropriate to me in terms of interruption, but, I think you're too late because it was heard twice. And yet it still deserves a certain measure to be applied to that apostle. That this strong imbalance of reminders to the opposition and position is slightly changed in favour of the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20382	Thank you. You can't get word to Mr. Martinovic because this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So you can't answer this. Article 107 speaks of the dignity of the congregation. I've done more and more times today, actually in these few minutes that I've taken over the presidency to get back and start talking about the subject, not to talk about any other topics. We've gone too far. This session is extremely important for the state, for the law, for the judiciary, for the public notebooks to go so far as to talk about everything that is politically burdening us. We're going to leave that behind for another time and we're not going to make any warnings and accusations about anyone here, because we're not here or the courtroom, or anything else that the people would say. So we'll come back and I'll give Nej Jovanovic my word and I guess he wants to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20383	I would like to thank the President. I would just like to rely on the position of my distinguished colleague Batic when we talk about the amendment, given that the amendment is practically inapplicable and absolutely inapplicable for several reasons. The first reason is that the norming of some obligation to the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary and by putting a six-month deadline cannot be normised in this law. That's one. Two, in no case can the Serbian Bar Association appear here. Why? Well, neither in the Law on Lawyerry there is absolutely no established nor prescribed jurisdiction of the Serbian Bar Association to give any opinion on the positive or negative effects of the application of the Law on Public Records. That would be absolutely nonsensical, or an absolute legal nonsense. On the other hand, is this how a lawyer is given a certain jurisdiction to decide what is good and what is bad? Well, what if, in that case, the lawyer said we're not giving a negative opinion, we disagree, and then we come into a situation that's legally absurd. That is why this amendment is virtually inapplicable and should not be accepted as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20384	The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20385	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really think that this amendment should be rejected, as my colleague said and my colleague, Nedjo Jovanovic, first of all for practical reasons, because it cannot even be applied and was not the aim of the amendment or intention. The amendment's intention, you saw from the explanation of his promoter, among other things, did not have a goal, so the one I told you about, but to bring out the thesis and to attack the minister and the government that they had suffered political defeat. Respected citizens of Serbia, the notary has just come to life in Serbia thanks to you, Mr. Minister, because it should have been brought to life during the former regime, and has not been brought to life, and its representatives today are attacking you here for what they should have done, and they haven't. It's just weird that they don't have or don't show a single shred of political correctness, moral responsibility, and some Gods don't even have academic honesty. As far as the Chamber of Commerce is concerned, and it is mentioned here thanks to you, Mr. Minister, a notary chamber is formed, all Members of Parliament know that although it should have been formed during the former regime, and it is not, and some of its representatives are sitting among us today, and they do not have or do not show any political correctness of moral responsibility, and some of them are not academic integrity. In that sense, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20386	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20387	Thank you. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, I believe that the proposed amendment should be rejected for the simple reason that, assuming this amendment, it is practically a fraud. So we're starting from someone in some situation to take advantage of, say, the principle that applied to the previous regime, which is the principle -- mother and daughter of the firm, so some notary offices will cooperate in an incorrect and unfair way with the law offices, I think the explanation of this amendment is a great insult both to lawyers and notaries. What was true of the previous regime, which is that one thinks they're doing another, the third, but I don't know what, I don't apply to this government. The government and the Justice Ministry sat down, partnered up and agreed, when something was agreed, the deal was respected. The previous regime doesn't know what it means, it doesn't know what it means to respect and respect the agreement, so the explanation of this amendment, and I'm looking at it, means, not as a lawyer, but as a citizen who is interested in this. So don't expect such partnership relationships that are not correct either by lawyers or by notaries. The previous regime has spilled big money from state to private sector precisely on the principle of working mothers and daughters, and businesses. We felt it on our skin, and this government doesn't work that way, so it won't apply and it won't do business that way. I know the previous regime was master of illusionism. So, master imagination, so we saw it today that they're seeing lawyers who aren't up there at the gallery. Today's government doesn't work that way, I repeat, we'll work it out, we'll work it out, we'll work it out, we'll work it out, we'll work it out. Now, we've solved the problem of a lawyer, we're going to solve the problem of an enlightener, and imagine me as a doctor that someone banned me from the Medical Chamber because a strike has been declared that in a situation where I have to save a human life, I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20388	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20389	Thank you. Given the course of the debate, I want to use the time of the parliamentary group when it comes to the amendment, to bring it to people, to the pace of the debate, and to talk about things that can't be different. Part of the amendments submitted by colleagues Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malovic, Aleksandar Senic, Blagoje Bradic and Dusan Petrovic, were practically accepted by the government because part of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Nikolic, the amendment is being discussed. I repeat, I understand, carry the man. Why is this amendment worth accepting or thinking about voting for? In its first position, because fellow MPs are asking that the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary be required to report to the National Assembly within six months of the date of entry into force of this law to the competent committee of the National Assembly on the effects of the application of this law with an opinion previously obtained, the competent authority of the Serbian Bar of Lawyers. Why do I say we should consider voting for this amendment? Because there are arguments that are strong in the debates of the MPs, who have said that you are particularly emphasising, that the Ministry should submit a report, otherwise regulated by the Law on Government, the Law on the National Assembly, the Law on the Ministry. But that would be a good reason to talk about why ministers don't file their three-month reports, why they don't come to committees with their three-month reports. Why do the ministers feel that the National Assembly is not a worthy session where they would defend their reports, because it does not happen. The damage is common. If someone thinks that society in general will be better or for the government, if there are no reports like this, he's very wrong. Our job is to listen to the report the ministers file. At some, almost emotional level, I don't understand ministers who have such broad support in numbers in the National Assembly, who have legal support in the election result, not to use what is constitutional and legal obligations and the National Assembly and them, and to submit reports in the National Assembly. I really don't understand that, except that there are reasons that aren't available to me, and I don't want to speculate. So, all that's said, it's okay to file a report, but don't put it into the law, because it's regulated by other laws, which I agree with, and that's a strong argument, it leads us to a situation that there's no such thing as deregulated in other laws. Why is the argument possible on the part of the Ministry, or the Minister of State, to report on what is happening to the application of this law? Because amendments and additions to the bill are not part of the strategy and will of the Ministry of Justice, nor of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They are neither part of the strategy nor the will of an independent plan to pass the laws of the National Assembly. They are neither in the Assembly nor in what they might be on the national agenda of the legislative action plan that we have committed to adopt when it comes to European integration. The laws are before us because there was a context and the result is this context. I don't qualify him worthy. I stand for dialogue, and if I'm allowed in the assessment of who won and who lost, I'd say we've lost everyone, and the lawyers are at least lost, but we can either agree on it. We've lost our company for four and a half months. So these laws are ahead of us, because there are four and a half months behind us and if there were no such context, there would be no such bill. In that sense, it's a perfectly logical idea for fellow MPs, let's see in six months, if we've assessed the provisions that stand well. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee on Justice for accepting one of my amendments in combination with the amendments of the other MPs, because we have done something right, and the minister who accepted the amendment with his explanation. A man has the right to have the discomfort of such acceptance. That's what this is about when it comes to dialogue on solutions. Instead, if the choice is what we heard as a debate, then I must express my concern that in four and a half months we will sit here with some other law that will be before us not because the government will, not because some minister will, not because it is on the action plan of European integration, not because it is a common agreement of the National Assembly, but because we have dropped some context and because we are reluctantly through dialogue. This amendment is in favour of dialogue between us. I know most of them won't be for, but my conscience is for the sake of and my advocacy for dialogue, I want to keep track of the stenogram, my claim that we've been thinking about this amendment for six months now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20390	The word is Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20391	After the amendment again. It is obvious that there is a misunderstanding when facts and arguments are pointed out which are doubtful the justification of the amendments. There's no dispute here to file a report from the old Justice Department. The attorney's chamber of Serbia's or the lawyer's legislation in this amendment has been disputed. There's absolutely no place to legitimize the Bar Association in terms of the giver's opinion. It may, by some nature of thought or sound logic, be the Chamber of Public Records, but it can't in any case be a lawyer. The lawyer has nothing to ask here, to take part in any way, and neither with an opinion, nor in this direction, the amendment is absolutely unacceptable, and in this direction she reacted to her colleague Batic when she said it was not a meaningful amendment. It doesn't make sense, and that's why it can't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20392	Thank you. Dragan Nikolic is looking for a replica. He says you misread him. I'm obliged to give him my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20393	Madam President of Parliament, the honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP mentioned me in a previous statement as a proposing of this amendment. She mentioned my name, I don't know how that confusion happened, I suppose by accident or her failure. I don't think it's from any evil desire or intent, but given that the public of Serbia has been informed that I am the bearer of this amendment, I mean that I am not and that I would not support such an amendment ever, and I couldn't bear it any less because it's a completely inapplicable part, which is that the Bar Association has some influence on giving an opinion, and that's the only thing that the Notary Chamber can do, and it's quite clear to everyone who studied law school, let alone someone who's a little bit more finished than that. Therefore, for the sake of Serbia's public, I would like to say that this is not my amendment and that I am against it and I will vote in the day to vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20394	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20395	Thank you. It's obviously a misunderstanding. You can look at the stenogram. The second position of this member is that the law enters into force the next day from the day of its publication. I said that this attitude was accepted because you submitted the amendment to Article 9 which says that instead of the eighth day it goes by words - the next day. You can look in the stenogram. I don't have any poor evaluation of your submission of the amendment, but it was in favour that one position of this amendment was accepted. It is your right to submit an amendment. I will vote in favour of this amendment, since it is natural, given the context in which this law is agreed between the Bar and the Ministry of Justice. In that sense, I also commented on what my colleagues call a lack of ID. They have the right to come to this law but they don't have the right to participate in the application. It's not good. It's not good for a dialogue in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20396	You have no right to a replica. So nothing was disputed. (Dear Nikolic, from the scene: I'm not looking for anything.) ) Marko Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20397	Our amendment has two parts, two bet. I can see that, and I'm glad about that, about this other attitude we all agree on, including the government that accepted the amendment of a colleague who proposed only that second part, which is part of the entry into force of this and of all other laws. It was not clear to us why contrary to established practice these laws were passed with a provision to enter into force eight days after the day of publication in the "Official Messenger", given that they were brought here to parliament, as we have repeatedly heard, as agreed by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Bar Association, and after four or more months of strike by lawyers and the blockade of the Serbian judiciary. It was not clear to us why, in many other cases, when the laws entered into force on the same day after the publication, the constitutional deadline of eight days was now to be respected. I'm happy about that. I also said in the principle debate that I didn't understand why it was standing and why it was waiting another eight days, because the decision of the Bar Association after the agreement with the Justice Department was that after the entry into force it would stop the strike of a lawyer. By adopting this part of the amendment, we will shorten that strike in at least eight days. The first position of our amendment is the wish that we never again experience what happened to us, which is that we have a strike and a blockade of the judiciary for four and a half months, that it does not happen to us in any other case, in any other branch, that we do not pass laws and change the laws of the day before it is due to take effect or to introduce a notary system 31, that was September 1st of last year. On August 30th, we adopted amendments and amendments to the law, several laws amending both the Law on Public Registration and those amendments caused a strike, changes that were made without discussion professionally, without the possibility that everyone would say their opinion, directly due to haughtiness, intricacies of the minister, we received a strike and a blockade of the judiciary for four and a half months. Our wish was to see if these changes we need to adopt today will lead to the first end of the strike and the judiciary being unblocked, and later to see if we adopted the best possible solutions and whether the notary system we consider to be very important and necessary to Serbia has lived in the right way. That there are problems, obviously there are in the adoption and preparation of the very system of entry into force, and also in its realization, because here, by changing November of the month, we have significantly reduced the revenues of notaries at the expense of the state, although the minister only two months before that convinced us that the solution by which the state is nothing but VAT won't get well and best possible, so after two months he said – no, it still needs 20% of the prize to belong to the state. We talked a lot about how many citizens will pay these services, and that's why we think the report is important and that it wouldn't be a problem, it would be nice if we got this part in the regular report. If this amendment is not accepted, obviously it will not, but it is a fact, I do not know specifically for the minister that he reports to parliament, I know of some other ministers that they do not respect the obligation at all to report to parliament three months ago, and we wanted that obligation from the Rules of Procedure which apparently some ministers do not respect, we introduce by law to strengthen and to hear at least once in six months how these laws go. We believe that this is good for parliamentaryism in Serbia, that it is good for citizens and we are sorry that this amendment will not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20398	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20399	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Madam Chairman, I have carefully read this amendment and I am simply surprised by the interpretation of certain colleagues of this amendment. They said there was a two-part amendment that one part of which was adopted, and the other one wasn't. I'm not really a lawyer, but I would ask Mr. Martinovic to explain to me how an amendment can be adopted in one of his works. It is almost impossible, especially that no amendments have been made, but perhaps those who have brought this Rules of Procedure, perhaps those longtime vice-presidents of the Assembly, the MPs have a little more experience than I have, so they could notice that the amendment can be adopted in one part of it, and the other cannot. Why this amendment is not acceptable is another very important reason. One is that two-partity, and another reason is that it prescribes a ministry in the government of the Republic of Serbia dealing with the affairs of the judiciary to submit a report to the National Assembly within six months. For me, it would be acceptable not to stand in the same part of the amendment, according to the Serbian Attorney's Office. So, the ministry, that is, part of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is sovereignly, thanks to the transfer of sovereignty with citizens, manages the state and manages the judiciary, so it should be telelytied, to be at the conclusion of the body of a citizens' association. Serbia's lawyer chamber thinks it's registered as an association of citizens, and let Mr. Martinovic correct me if that's not true. So I believe that no one who is an MP within such a long time, no one who is well-intentioned, no one who is a professor at law school, or who is a professor of law at a certain university, is aware of the fact that one ministry commits that in its submission of the report it must obtain the preliminary opinion of the authorities of a citizen association. It's incomprehensible to me, especially because it's among the promoters, I've already said, the law professor who teaches rights to his students at a certain university. In an analogy, someone could have written that the ministry submitted a report in the previous opinion of the football club. So, the football club is also an association of citizens, so you could also write that the ministry must submit its report according to a previous fire department report. So it's an association of citizens, and it's almost unacceptable for you to order the government, or the justice ministry, to file a report, it's acceptable, to the National Assembly, but to seek the opinion of one association of citizens. For that reason, I do not think it is acceptable or reasonable to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20400	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20401	I'm sorry the minister isn't here. I'll use the time of the authorised representative, that is, the head of the parliamentary group. This amendment is good. We support him, of course. We believe that he would have put enough order into, otherwise, us -- unfavourable practice, relations between the executive and the Serbian Parliament. Also, I must say that all the amendments we have submitted, which the opposition has submitted in this process, have gone in the direction of further precision, improvement and I am glad that some, however, have been accepted as amendment committees in another form, but what we have heard further is an attempt to present all this in an inappropriate manner. So we listened, among other things, to our amendments and to representatives of the ruling majority's appearance that they could resort to some drastic measures, some of the measures that were available, but not used. In that sense, I must really look back, and say that it is good that Minister Selakovic and the Government did not resort to these measures, that it is true that they were able to apply much more stringent measures, measures that are unacceptable, which are uncivilised, which are contrary to the rule of law and democratic societies. With the help of the government, they could introduce a state of emergency in Serbia, they could lift the law, they could introduce a state attorney, they could bring armed forces into parliament, they could have done a lot of bad things, I mean, and when you talk about amendments, when you talk about political issues, if you want Minister Selakovic's professional defeat in the Serbian Parliament, then it comes out as a counter argument in the first day -- and what you do in Vojvodina, you don't have legitimacy, and in the second day you say -- we could have done a lot of bad things, so we didn't. Now we from the opposition and Serbian citizens should be comforted that it is not made, and it is thought to be a parallel bar of law. Now we need to be happy, dear colleague, which is not through, as you yourself have said, legal events, which are possible, I am not saying that it is not possible, therefore, that you could defacto all those who have violated the decisions of the bar, so the Esnaf Association, which is the only authority to give confirmation that one is a member of the legal profession in Serbia, that the people who have disobeyed the democratically made decisions, have violated the suspension of the work of lawyers...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20402	I kindly ask you to return to article 9, because we are talking about details, and you give us a final word, and there is time for the final word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20403	I'm trying to sublime. Basically, this amendment, like everyone else who has been submitted, has gone towards further improvement in this agreement that has been reached and the minister has accepted almost all the demands of the legal profession, which has led to a political defeat, which is why he should resign, not to tell us here... Tell us why this amendment is not acceptable and why this amendment cannot be accepted, while others from the opposition that have made it possible for people with disabilities not to be discriminated against in the eyes of the Serbian Constitution, for example. However, it was done through one of the jacks, as the gentleman on the other hand says. Therefore, I think there is no explanation why it is now necessary to wait eight days for something to be applied, why it is not specified when we have three months of reports that are necessary, and Minister Selakovic may be the least unsettled in the entire government, as I have information, which I am not a member of the board, but on the other hand you have ministers who have never appeared in the National Assembly and they absolutely don't care for three months. You know who they're reporting to. Now, the one they report to, that man is a collector of all the information and all the decisions in this country, and then you tell me it doesn't look like what you're dreaming about? That's what I'm worried about, you dreams. They must never be true in Serbia, because your public has already caused enough trouble for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20404	It's all right, but you have to talk about the amendment. Now I've been maximum tolerance. I won't give you the right to a replica. We're moving on to an amendment that will explain things. You'll get in touch with it. We've been too long. We are replicating an amendment that has not been accepted, and another one that resolves Article 2 of this amendment has been accepted. That's my disposition, let me give you my word now. National MP Dragan Nikolic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. First he'll get the word, then Mr. Dragan Nikolic, because I promised.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20405	Thank you, Madam President. It's a good thing the government has accepted this amendment. He corrects the text of the bill, but there would be no doubt about what SNS's views are, as Mr Stefanovic is extremely wrongly interpreted. None of us said the Department of Justice had the opportunity to take drastic action. I said there were different measures at the Department of Justice's disposal. The drastic measures were applied by the former regime. If the former regime were once again in power, or the people who represented it, I assume they would solve the problem of both lawyers and educators and doctors. Maybe they'd send special forces, maybe the special police would step on some lawyer's boots and the problem's solved, but the government run by Alexander Vukic didn't do it. If there were others also civilized and legally possible ways to solve this problem, yes. As for the observations about the entry into force of this bill, here I am really trying out of the stained veins, but I can never grasp the strings and grasp the logical link between the two completely conflicting attitudes. First a few days ago, you had a canon of attacks on why some law went into effect the next day since the day of publication, and then it's unconstitutional, so it's a matter of legal certainty, so it's a violation of the legal order, so there's no practice in a civilized and democratic world. There are no arguments, of course, entirely wrong, which are not used to attack that provision. Today we're listening to a completely different story. Today it is civilized, democratic, in accordance with the Constitution, corresponds to the interests of citizens. It is good for everyone to have this law enter into force the next day since the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia. If you think that you are seriously involved in politics, you must have at least an elemental consistency in your views. Three days ago, when the government proposes that the law enter into force the next day of publication, that it be uncivilised, anti-constitutional and non-democratic, and today when it proposes on the eighth day of publication, it is once again uncivilised, non-democratic, the rights of citizens are violated, the rights of lawyers are violated, etc. So there is no logical connection between these two attitudes, except that you are now trying in every way possible to put a political blow to the government, Minister Selakovic, and to forcefully prove that the Justice Ministry allegedly suffered some kind of defeat. The Serbian Progressive Party repeats for who knows which time, no one here has been defeated. We have shown you how to talk to all organisations representing certain categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Lawyers are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course they need to be spoken to. Farmers are also citizens of the Republic of Serbia and should also talk to educators, also talking to doctors and everyone else. But the problem is that at a time when you had the responsibility to exercise power, those conversations were gone. The original Public Registration Act was passed in 2011 and many bad laws were passed during the former regime, passed before 2012. Mr. Selakovic and many other ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia are now in a position to try to fix what is originally wrong with the bill. You have heard, surely, of that famous Sentence of Belshazzar Bogisic, which the coat of arms is born, the time is not right. Here, now the Justice Minister is trying what was born hump to correct and all of us together who are going to vote for these bill of law. It is not politically moral to say – this government and this minister are responsible for the blockade of the judiciary, this government and this minister are responsible for the strike or suspension of the work of lawyers, as is already called, and you have the Law on Public Registration, which was adopted in 2011. Here we were honored that we allegedly lied that in 2008, a man was killed, that Ranko Panic was killed. I'm sorry, that's true. But our question...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20406	Ambassador, I will not let you get into this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20407	Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20408	No, just about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20409	Here, I'm done. Our question – from 2008 to 2012 you had the opportunity to determine who was responsible for the murder of Ranko Panic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20410	I shut you down. I won't let you. The word has been given by MP Dragan Nikolic, as an applicant for the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20411	Madam President of Parliament, honourable Minister Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I wanted to make a modest contribution to the agreement reached by the Republic Government through the Ministry of Justice, that is, its expert team and what on the other hand were my esteemed fellow lawyers, i.e. their expert team. My modest contribution was in this sense that I noticed in Article 9 of this proposal that amendments and additions to the Law in the Public Note were made to the effect that the law enters into force on the eighth day of publication in the "Official Messenger" and then I decided to give an amendment, sharing my opinion and all MPs from the SNS Group, that this law enters into force the next day after the day of publication in the "Official Messenger". In that sense, I also believed in the competence of the Justice Minister, I believed in his co-operation, and I believed in his desire that this compromise that was reached between the Justice Ministry and our lawyers would receive one cream on the whole cake, on the whole agreement, and that is to enter immediately the next day of publication. This is very important because the Serbian Attorney's Chamber will make a decision through its board of directors to start work, to get lawyers into court, to return to their normal activities, and that on the same day they start to work, they will also be in application of this law and set of accompanying laws, which are also on the agenda today. In that sense, I thank the Minister of Justice, Mr. Nikola Selakovic, thank him as a national MP for accepting my amendment, thanking him as a lawyer because he allowed us to work freely and he fulfilled his part of the deal. I also thank him on behalf of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because everyone is truly over the head of this suspension of work. Many have not been able to exercise their rights that they, of course, care about. I'd like to say Monday we'll all be in court. What's been set up multiple times today, and even these days, it's capitulation, one thesis that's completely pointless. When you enter into conversations and agreements, someone thinks it's a defeat. I am convinced that the fact that someone is seeking resignation, while at the same time the lawyers have silently said that they are not asking for more resignation, nor the replacement of justice, I want to inform those MPs and the public of Serbia that I know when time will stop being Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, wait, be patient, in 2018 Mr Nikola Selakovic will surely cease his mandate, in 2018 he will no longer be the minister of justice, and until then he will have the full support of all SNS deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20412	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. You've moved on to Parliament time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20413	It is true, in the largest number of laws passed in this conference, almost 50% of the laws we passed last year, the deadline for entry into force was the next day. In almost all cases, we were against it and we were giving the amendment to change it, to put a constitutionally fixed eight-day deadline. Why isn't that the case now? Because we believe that this is the special case provided for by the Constitution, where there are reasonable reasons for the law to come into force the day after the publication of the "Official Messenger", because four and a half months have blocked the judiciary in Serbia by the work of the minister of justice, which amended the laws on the traffic of immobility the day before the notaries came into force. In order to end the strike, we felt that this law and all of the following laws that are part of this package should take effect on the day of publication in the Official Messenger, which does not mean that the next time you pass a law with which you came to parliament because the government was late to react on time, and then you want to shorten that deadline because of your negligence and incompetence, that we will not react and ask for the constitutional term of eight days to stand. Here, due to the intricacies and defamation of the minister, we have the blockade of the judiciary for four and a half months, and we believe that it is necessary for the judiciary to be unblocked as soon as possible, that citizens can protect their rights before the court and that there are reasonable reasons for this law and the other four laws that we are considering today to take effect the next day after the publication in the Official Messenger. I don't see that political inconsistencies, because we read the content of the law, we look at the context in which laws are passed, and every time we refer to it, not by automation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20414	Thank you. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate, we could hear that the Ministry of Justice capitulated, that according to the MPs of the former regime Miskovic had won, and, as evidence of that victory, it was supposed to serve the provision of the bill that the law would take effect on the eighth day of the publication, it was not reportedly in their words that the proceedings against Miroslav Miskovic were extended. Those were arguments from the principle debate, if I'm not mistaken. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted Mr Dragan Nikolic's amendment that the law enters into force the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Then you asked the minister to resign, to apologize, to ask God what he did. Will you now apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for having deceived them that the Ministry of Justice has capitulated before Miroslav Miskovic, against whom appropriate court proceedings are being conducted, here it now turns out that this is not true. So the law will come into force the next day from the day of publication. What about capitulation now? What now about the claim that Miskovic beat Selakovic, that he beat Vukic, that he beat the state? Now it turns out you were wrong, mildly said you were wrong. I understand that someone who was in power lost it to him. I understand, but I don't understand that this pain is making citizens cheat and making the wrong impression that anyone in Serbia is stronger than the state of Serbia. It's a dangerous thesis. No one is stronger than the state, no one, belonged to this chamber or that chamber, was a member of this profession or that profession. If anyone has won here, the state has won. I thank Minister Selakovic for allowing the state to win, and I hope that the state of Serbia will also win some new battles that I expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20416	Marko Djurisic on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20417	Yes, the government, we expressed it as a question of whether the government had put the eight-day deadline in Miskovic's interest, and we have given the amendment to make that deadline the next day. It is okay if the government has now accepted the amendment and therefore wants to show that it has not actually worked in the interest of Miskovic. But apparently neither did the lawyers in the interest of Miskovic these four and a half months as they strike, and were directly accused by the minister, by members of the government, of fellow MPs working in the interest of Miskovic. That all of us who say they're right about the lawyer are Miskovic's servants. That's why we believe that by passing this law, the government has capitulated.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20418	Just about the amendment. You want to talk about the amendment? There's no replication, he hasn't spoken to you, he's talking about the amendment, he hasn't asked for a replica. (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: About the amendment. Would you like to talk about the amendment? No, I have to run a session, I can't grant wishes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20419	About the amendment, of course, at a risk I accept to take my word for it. It's nothing to argue with. But just so you don't stay unsaid...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20420	So when I take away your word...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20421	Okay. Thank you. Just so it doesn't stay unscheduled, very general estimates were used here. The government said, the minister said, all lawyers are in the service of Miroslav Miskovic, all lawyers are Miskovic's mercenaries. All former regime MPs are Miskovic's mercenaries. Now I'm not going to speak to the Minister, I'm going to speak for myself, because I made a statement that was transmitted directly to the central news show TV B92. So, I speak for myself. I said – Mr Dragoljub Djordjevic is the wounded man of one of the defendants in the proceedings against Miroslav Miskovic and others. That's a fact. That fact can't disprove anything at all. Nor did I say that all the lawyers in the service of Miroslav Miskovic, nor that all MPs of the Democratic Party and the SDS or any other party in the service of Miroslav Miskovic, I said – Mr Dragoljub Djordjevic is a representative, or defender of one of the defendants in the proceedings against Miroslav Miskovic. I think that man is the fourth indictee, I'm not going to mention his name is not correct. That's a fact. Whoever draws conclusions from that fact is his business. But that's just the way things are.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20422	Thank you. The word is Dragan Nikolic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20423	My amendment was very clear and could only be said about it – we will vote because it is acceptable for us or we will not vote and we are giving arguments why we are against it. Try to come back at four and a half months and what happened there, who said what, who respected whom, whether it was generally all about all the lawyers, here it wasn't about me. I've been a lawyer for more than 25 years and I haven't felt called Minister Selakovic for a moment about what he said. Of course, the minister has certain knowledge and certain services that know who and how he does things in this country, but we're not people who want to put themselves in the mud or the fungi, that we keep looking behind us and at the mirror, but we said we wanted to move forward. This kind of agreement you've made is the best thing you've done in the last six months. I've appreciated every law and bill you've passed in this House, I've always supported it, I've given certain amendments, and this time I thank you for accepting this amendment that I've given. This allowed us lawyers to make a decision to start Monday to work on the satisfaction of all Serbian citizens. I am convinced that you did this on behalf of the citizens of Serbia who elected you in March, us as MPs, and then we vote for you by conveying the legitimacy of that people. Since you think of Serbian citizens, that's why the party rating is getting bigger every day and we've crossed 60%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20424	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to agenda two. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of immovableity, in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20425	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Presidents of the National Assembly Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Minister Selakovic, Honored Guests of the Ministry of Justice and Honored Guest from the Ministry of Justice, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport of immovableity. I think this dialogue, which has been led through the amendment, is a reason to reject this amendment of images and the opportunity of absurdity in which I do not understand why Minister Selakovic. I'll try to argue with that, gentlemen. We have suggested that Articles 1 and 2 be amended, and Articles 1 and 2 are amended. It's a bill of law. Two things we had in mind. One alignment with the amended Article 7 of the amendment and the addition of the Law on Public Registration, provided that our amendment was accepted by Minister Selakovic, we calculated that he would accept. The second thing is that it particularly respects the right to the traditions of our country. The amendment was rejected, and in an explanation for the refusal of the amendments, Minister Selakovic is called on behalf of the ministry of justice by respected gentlemen for legal certainty. Now, I would understand that Minister Selakovic said in an explanation – it is a very important principle of legal certainty on condition that previously Minister Selakovic said in the Assembly two days ago – in the previous four and a half months I was wrong about legal certainty. But without this attitude, it was wrong for the same man to come and say, I call for legal certainty, Mr. Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20426	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20427	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, the Honored Minister Selakovic, the Honorable guest of the Ministry of Justice and the Honored Ministry of Justice, we have submitted Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I to the amendment and to Article 2 of this Bill, and in reason we have clearly written why we believe that the contents of Article 2 should be changed as we have proposed. I have to remind Minister Selakovic once again that this argument of legal certainty is really important. Around him is a battle in these four and a half months, respected gentlemen and ministers Selakovic. I think it's necessary for you to hear it here, even if it's from one of the MPs. Your authority would be strengthened, your personal authority by saying here to the MPs very clearly that you were wrong at the end of August, that you were wrong in late November, and now that you have been wrong during this four-and-a-half month approach to a joint work, the design of the best-contained bill that is now on the agenda at our session. If you do not, Mr Selakovic, you will be left with the authority given to you by the institution, but it is an unfortunate situation for one responsible man that a personal authority due to such a failure, Mr Selakovic, cannot follow the authority given to him by the institution and I call on you once again to consider this amendment, but also about your own authority in relation to the actions of these four and a half months, respected ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20428	Thank you. The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20429	Thank you. As for the amendment we're talking about right now, I don't think there's any reason to accept it for reasons why, as in the previous amendment, which the applicant explained, regardless of the text of the amendment itself, I'm not going to go into it, and I'm not going to explain it specifically, because everyone can read it, but two institutes are permanently being chased – the Institute of Solemnisation and the Institute of Allegalization. In addition, if you already had what you wanted to achieve in order to submit such an amendment, then you should have shown that consistency when we were last discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records, when my esteemed colleague, Nejko Jovanovic, spoke and solemnization and legalization, then you should have accepted that attitude and supported everything he said before the Law on Public Notes came into effect, and then you should also have confirmed his position that there should be a resolution that was then envisaged and legalisation. The submission of such an amendment is obvious inconsistencies in the previous attitude and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20430	Thank you, Miss Batic. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20431	Thank you, Your Honor. I didn't mean to answer at all, but I just had to because for the sake of the public, this has to be known. The applicant for the amendment, I understand, may not be, not perhaps, but certainly not a lawyer, but to submit an amendment in such a way as to confuse the terms, the institute, and it is a distinguished colleague Batic very well noticed, that someone is mixing legalization and solemnization, and that he is holding a letter and I don't already know what he is calling for resignations, it's really something that is inappropriate, and I ask you to react in the future, that if someone comes forward, or a special applicant of the amendment if he reports after the amendment that he is then talking about the amendment, because if he said anything about the amendment, the public would have already seen how much ignorance is at the moment. Like this, someone picks up and tells him what comes to mind and you're obliged as Parliament Speaker to warn him because the word one didn't say about the amendment. I repeat, if he had said anything about the amendment he wrote, the public would have seen how much ignorance he had in store. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20432	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blaža Bradic and Dusan Petrovic. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac reportedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20433	Mr. Chairman, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 amending Article 14 of the Law and we have proposed that one change be made in paragraph 1. In order to make it more clear, I need to read Section 1 – a public notary confirming (solemn) a public property estrangement contract is required to deliver a copy of the contract to the Advocate-General within 15 days of the date of confirmation of the contract. We have suggested that these words be replaced by words within 15 days of the date of the confirmation of the treaty, immediately after the confirmation of the treaty. Since the proposer had already provided in earlier members that a copy of the immovable transport contract was immediately delivered to the court for registration, we see no reason why it would be so long in this case with the delivery of the contract to the public defender, i.e. why it leaves here for a longer period of 15 days. It is also a shorter deadline for the delivery of certified contracts to the tax administration and we felt that the public defender should be delivered within a shorter period. The amendment was rejected with the following argument – it is not accepted for the reason that the deadline for the delivery of a confirmed non-alignment agreement from public property to the Advocate General is appropriate and does not constitute an obstacle to the handling of the defence in order to protect public property. The same deadline is also provided for in Article 14(1) of the applicable Immobility Transport Act. With this amendment, we are just changing that position of Article 114, which is amended by Article 4. The bill, so I don't really understand this argument, or understand it, but I don't think it makes any sense, and that's why I would like to appeal once again, Mr. Minister, to pay more attention to our amendments, because, as I said earlier today in the discussion, we are really trying to constructively improve the text. We don't submit amendments just out of opposition aversion to attacking bill proposals. On the contrary, we take care of citizens' interests and try to satisfy and protect all interests of citizens with amendments. If you were paying more attention to our presentations and our amendments, then you'd have accepted the amendments before. I happen to have a transcript here from the session of 29 August of last year when the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Transport of immovableity Act was discussed and when it was introduced that the immovable transport contracts were concluded in the form of a public record for which the assembly was exclusively competent public notebook in whose territory the immovableity is located and that only such contract is valid. And in principle and in our discussion on amendments, we fought against it, and in the discussion, I suggested that we should accept our amendments and allow the public notebook to verify all contracts, and the contracts of lawyers because they are lawyers and professional in doing the job and ultimately pay taxes. Not everyone deals with real estate traffic, but one good part of a lawyer deals and that it is necessary to protect that profession for that reason. I have already pointed out that there is also a tradition here in Belgrade, as well as in Vojvodina, and I suppose in all of Serbia, I know where I live, that families have their own family lawyers, that companies have their own lawyers who do all their jobs, and that's why we've advocated the possibility of lawyers putting together real estate contracts. It took four and a half months of protest for you to return to what we spoke to you in August. So I ask you, in the future, to pay attention to our amendments and to have a little more attention to what we are telling you not to return to the same questions every few months.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20434	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Professor Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20435	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Prime Minister Selakovic, the honored guests of the Ministry of Justice, and a particularly respected guest from the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Becic, I now thank you for this "professor" one more time, although I do not have that status yet, but since you have also had previous sessions of this psychic commentary, I assume that you feel what is next in my career at the university. There are two arguments I am now using here to try to convince the MPs, including the minister of justice, Mr Selakovic, to accept our amendment to article 6 of this bill. First of all, gentlemen, here on previous amendments there have been words about it, and this one is about the same thing, that we mix two forms – solemnization and legalization. We don't interfere, gentlemen. I am, explaining the amendment to Article 7. Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Records, said that we believe that these two different forms, respected gentlemen, should be equally represented. I only understood my colleague Batić when she discussed, who did not object to the lack of understanding of the form, but to the consistency of our discussions that preceded. Therefore, gentlemen, first of all, I ask the SNS MPs to follow, to read and not to dare to warn the MPs, who proved after four and a half months that they were right in late August, that they were right in early November, that they did not dare to call these MPs ignorant, because the time had shown, gentlemen, that we were precisely right and that most voted for something that was not fair, respected gentlemen and Mr Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20436	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20437	I don't know why you've recognized yourself in this - ignorant? I understand you've said and you've fenced yourself nicely that you're not a lawyer, but here's the thing, since I'm reading all the amendments, even the one that's been submitted, although it doesn't have much to do with anything, but I'd like to ask an esteemed colleague to explain the amendment himself to us, since we haven't heard a single word about the amendment before. I'd like him to explain the amendment to us next time, and I'm convinced he doesn't know what he wrote either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20438	Thank you. You didn't get the word You can't get a replica, Mr. Pavicevic. [[(Vladimir Pavicevic, from place: Well, replica. He asked me a question.]] (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Please consult with the Minister of Justice... ) Please, Mr Pavicevic, Professor Pavicevic, this is exactly my regret that we are, I'm afraid, losing a good professor and getting a bad politician. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20439	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe, Mr. Becic, that you are not competent, by call, or by profession, to evaluate Mr. Pavicevic's work. He works at the university, he's very competent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20440	Mr. Veselinović, when did I grade some work? (Janko Veselinović, from the place: Please allow me to explain the amendment. I can't let you, because you're not telling the truth. I wasn't grading anyone's work. The word is made by the People's Messenger Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20441	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Selakovic, respected guest from the Ministry of Justice and honored guests from the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the Honored Chairman, Mr Becic, you have just injured two members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Member 103 and member 108. Dear Chairman Becic, I will now not read the contents of those two members. I believe the contents of both members are very familiar to you, and so I wonder how, Mr. Becic, as you chair the National Assembly, do you not apply the contents of these two members of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Article 103. It is foreseen that when a member of the Parliament is reported for the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Becic, it is his or her right to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure in two minutes. You are required, Mr. Becic, as chairman, to listen to this MP who has been given the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did you do, Mr. Becic? You gave Mr. Veseinovic the right and opportunity to explain how you injured the relevant member of the Rules of Procedure, and then, after a few seconds, you interrupted Mr. Becic and thus prevented one MP from explaining the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20442	As I will now interrupt you, Mr. Pavicevic. Professor Pavicevic, if you were honest, you would have read this article, where you can say what can be said for up to two minutes. That is what you know. Mr. Vesenović began to speak, he did not tell the truth, and I interrupted him at that point, gave an explanation and thus his notification after the breach of the Rules of Procedure was completed, as well as yours, Mr. Pavicevic. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has submitted an amendment to Article 6. Please, Mr. Minister, would you like to make a statement under this amendment? The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20443	On behalf of the Government, we accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20444	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I find that a representative of the government has accepted this amendment. Mr. Marijan Risticevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20445	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honored guests from the ministry, I am advocating Article 105, final position, Article 109, second and third positions. Mr. Chairman, in the future, you will pay attention to this, because it has been happening to you throughout the session, that is, since the beginning of this session. The final position of Article 105 reads: “No one shall approach the speaker until the President of the National Assembly approves it. ” I hope you're listening, Mr. Vienna. Also, Article 109(1), paragraph 2, paragraph 3 says - the warning is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the president of the National Assembly, who speaks before he has asked and received his word. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Pavicevic has continued to do so throughout this session and throughout this session. He stands up, without your permission, approaches the speaker, i.e. Get up and start talking, without your permission take a word, speak before you approve. This is contrary to the provisions of Articles 105 and 109, and I ask you to give Mr Pavicevic a warning in the future that, if he gets up, he should approach the microphone, or the speaker, without allowing it. If everyone did what Mr. Pavicevic did, then everyone would stand up, everybody would grumble, everyone would talk before you approved it. It's inadmissible behavior for an ordinary MP, let's say, a farmer, let alone a single doctor and there's little chance of him being a professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20446	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, we see it in Parliament every time. I suppose Mr. Pavicevic believes that by force of his party he can act like that and by force of his party the moment he wishes he could take justice into his own hands, word and everything else. So, for that reason, you see, very often we can't stop him. Do you want the Assembly to plead? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20447	I have responded to the amendment of my esteemed colleague and, of course, to me personally the most inspiring applicant of the amendment, Mr Pavicevic, but you did not give me the word then even though I answered, so I don't know if now that we've already moved on to the amendment submitted by the Committee of Justice, the State Administration and local self-government?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20448	I didn't understand. Do you want to speak by this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20449	By amendment, but you asked the Minister if he accepted the Committee's amendment and you crossed over. I responded to Mr Pavicevic's amendment and for some reason I didn't get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20450	I've already moved on to this amendment. You're right, maybe I didn't see you call.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20451	Since you didn't see it, then you'll let me?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20452	Unfortunately, we've moved on to the second amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I agree to accept the amendment. ) Here you see, Mr. Risticevic, with the power of his party, Mr. Pavicevic takes both the word and the justice into his own hands. Thank you. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dragan Nikolic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogodnović, Snezana Malovic, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Justice Committee have adopted amendments and local self-government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers these amendments to be in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find these amendments have become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20453	Thank you. Today is January 21st, 2015 and will certainly be remembered in the political history of the Republic of Serbia, modern political history, as this is the first serious defeat of the ruling coalition, or the Serbian Progressive Party. What we wanted with this amendment is that the damage caused by this poor government does not increase, because it is not at all disputed that due to the justified four-month strike of a lawyer, there has been material damage that is more... (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: Is this an amendment? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20454	Mr. Veselinovic, the MPs rightly warn me that you are not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20455	I'm asking for the deadline to be applied from eight days to one day and I'm saying reduce the damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20456	That amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20457	So what difference does it make that he's accepted?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20458	You're now explaining to us why you think the government...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20459	Why he should have been accepted. Please give me back my time, Mr. Vienna. I have the right to explain the amendment that has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20460	Yes, but about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20461	I have the right to explain...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20462	But not the way you started, talking about everything and everything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20463	Did you give me my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20464	I'll give you your time back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20465	So, as a result of the lawyer's strike, a huge material damage has been done... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20466	Don't talk about the amendment. Thank you. The word is Mrs. Comic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20467	Thank you, Chairman. You blatantly violated article 27 by interrupting the MP without reason and repeating the precedent you introduced during the session. You said you interrupted him because he talks about everything and everything. 120 minutes or more ago, you said that the other MP had the right to talk about everything and everything because each other was talking about everything and everything. Make up your mind, he can't do both. You can't chair the National Assembly to depend on your personal attitude, as much as you bring charm into that personal attitude. The MP has the right to explain in two minutes the amendment he has submitted. If you think that in those two minutes he doesn't stick to the agenda, then you have to remind him of article 106. It is unacceptable for you to enter the controversy with the MPs in relation to the content of their explanations of the amendments they have submitted because it amuses you. That's what's causing the incidents. During the last twenty minutes, you've been turning the National Assembly session into an incident. It's unnecessary because we've all met here to solve a big problem that lasts four and a half months and each of us has the right to explain our amendment. None of us have the obligation to suffer the independence of the chairman, and we all have an obligation to respect all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so do you. So, I don't want you to plead, but I'm asking you to start sticking to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20468	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I have to explain. I am now going back to the past and I remember a lot of will in this House by some of the chairmans. I'm trying not to look like them. Also, Mrs. Comic, I just did what you said. Before that, I also apologized to the MPs because one MP convinced me that he could talk about anything and anything in the light of his amendment. Now I'm trying not to be the same. I have warned this member of the People's Parliament not to discuss the subject and its amendment. The moment he kept talking about the subject and his amendment, I interrupted him. Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20469	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister Selakovic, I gave this amendment, and you could not accept it. The government of the Republic of Serbia could not accept it, because it is not an agreement that you have reached with the Serbian Attorney's Chamber. You could not accept and remain as agreed between the two expert teams. You could, and you couldn't. You decided to go out to meet, to give your hand, to show your co-operation, to show that you care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that you care that one of the pillars of the state, which is the judiciary, functions, continues to work where it matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20470	Mr. Nikolic, don't talk about the amendment. Please return to the amendment or finish your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20471	I'm talking about the amendment, the acceptance...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20472	Don't talk about the amendment. Please, either go back to the amendment or finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20473	The amendment was accepted, and I'm talking about the government being able to, and she didn't have to. Let me just finish one more sentence...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20474	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. (Dear Nikolic, from the scene: Do you allow me to finish another sentence? ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20475	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Nikolic, I've got my word, I don't know if you insist on speaking any further...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20476	Mr. Pavicevic, you have responded to your amendment and please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20477	All right, esteemed chairman, Mr. Becic. Dear Minister Selakovic, a well-respected guest and guests from the Ministry of Justice, here were also great dilemmas among the MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party, and the folk MP Olgica Batic, who had, I think, a very reasonable comment and I call on her to continue our debate, although Mr Becic is not inclined to have a dialogue here, so that we can come up with the best solutions, as Mrs Komic said. Dear gentlemen, we have suggested that Article 7 after Article 1 is added to Article 2. I think this is very important, so, Minister Selakovic, I'd like to have your attention in particular now. Paragraph 2 reads - We now have one of our special additions, three years after the appointment of the total number of public notebooks in accordance with the law governing public notation, conduct and local court of law, if the parties are contacted by agreement in writing. We believe that such a solution can only contribute to the general good, Minister Selakovic. You wrote in your explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as the amendment to Article 1. But the amendment to Article 1 is not about the content of this amendment, Mr Selakovic. Please think again about seeing your mistake and when you see her, Mr. Selakovic, say you've made a mistake, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20478	Thank you. After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move on to the 3rd agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of THE LAW ON THE VANPARY PROCEDURE You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Nikolic, Dr Janko Vesenović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr Blažje Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Dragan Nikolic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Dusan Petrovic submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find these amendments have become an integral part of the bill. First, amendment-proposing MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20479	Thank you, Chairman. What I was about to say earlier, I'm going to say now. I thank you on behalf of all the lawyers in Serbia, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia who had the hearing to accept my amendment and to enter into force after the day of publication in the "Official Messenger". What is technically possible, and this is if we adopt today, and we will certainly pass this set of laws, that after that the President of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic will sign these laws, that they be published tomorrow in "The Official Messenger", which means that lawyers could start working in Serbia on Friday. That's my recommendation from this pay phone to the Serbian Attorney's Chamber of Lawyers Management Board. You've guaranteed your honor and your cheek that that's how it's gonna be. You've given your hand and given more than you've been asked to, and that's all I can do, powerful and great. Why did the other colleagues give this amendment that is identical to my amendment? I mean, on my colleague Đurisic and these others. Because I gave the amendment on January 19th at 1:15 p.m., I'm showing and it can record the camera. Since someone saw, and since this isn't some secret, he remembered what and how, he realized, he knew this would be accepted, and then at five minutes to 4:00 p.m., at 1555 p.m., they gave their amendments. So much for the honesty and the desire of some to come to peace, that it comes to the functioning of justice. I am sure that the promoters of this amendment, which is identical with mine, who gave two and a half or three hours after me, have done it completely dishonestly, and I know that they are wrong to the sky, that you have made an agreement with lawyers and that they are wrong to have lawyers start to work, that the courts will function again and that they will continue to live normally in this Serbia, unfortunately for them, and for the joy of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20480	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is also proposed by the amendment to Biljana Hasanovic Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20481	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First I have to answer to the previous speaker, or to tell you to tell him that in any case...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20482	Please, just as part of the interpretation of this amendment because you didn't get the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20483	I'm talking about the amendment that in no way did we have the opportunity or the opportunity to see the amendment that he submitted, we submitted it out of our own convictions and beliefs. Are we in principle always against an emergency procedure, except when there are very reasonable reasons? We did. Are we, in principle, against the entry into force of the next day since the day of publication, except when there are very reasonable reasons? We did. We have assessed that in this case there are legitimate reasons for both, and therefore we have submitted an amendment that we have proposed to bring the law into force and this whole set of laws relating to regulation of relations between the ministry and lawyers, to enter into force the next day of adoption. We didn't copy anyone, that's our conviction. We don't need to rewrite. We've got enough knowledge and we've got enough creativity to study the laws ourselves and make our own amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20484	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Nikolic, Marko Djurisic, Dr Janko Vesenović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MPs Dragan Nikolic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find these amendments have become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Heritage You have received amendments submitted by MPs Dragan Nikolic, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MPs Dragan Nikolic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendments are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find these amendments have become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move on to the 6th agenda – Proposal for a Law on War Crimes Supplements since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the principle and since no amendments to the National Assembly will be submitted to Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the voting day decide only on the draft law in general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby set the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Wednesday, January 21st, 2015, starting at 14.00 a day for voting on the agenda of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-01-21-0.u20485	The honourable MPs before we move on to a decision need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the quorum for the work of the Assembly exists in the voting day if most of the national MPs are present at the session. Please insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 174 MPs are present in the hall and that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 184, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you that the components of the bill have become amendments to Article 7 together by the MPs: Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaže Bradić and Dusan Petrovic, member of the 9th Parliament Dragan Nikolic and the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 5, which is added after Article 8. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 176 of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blaža Bradic and Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the total attendance of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Natasa Vukkovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 177 of the 193 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blaža Bradic and Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 181 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 182 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senic, Dr. Blaža Bradic and Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the total attendance of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 192, no one, with abstentions, voted for two of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Registration, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one of the 194 MPs, voted for – 193. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of immovableity, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 193, no one, with abstentions, voted one of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to Article 7 submitted in the same text by MP Dragan Nikolic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Dusan Petrovic, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government to Article 6. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 180 of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 181 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blaža Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -15, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 179 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 188 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 182 of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of today's publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 190, against - no one with abstentions - has voted four of the total 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Transport of immovableity, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -192, no one, with abstentions, voted two of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Immobility Transport Act. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on extraparation, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -193, no one, with abstentions, voted one of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to Article 3 which were submitted in the same text by MP Dragan Nikolic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of today's publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -191, no one, with abstentions, voted three of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on extraparation procedures, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -193, no one, with abstentions, voted one of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the law on non-partisan proceedings. I put to the vote the Bill of Amendments and Family Law Supplements, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 192, against - no one with abstentions - has voted two of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to Article 6 which, in the same text, have been submitted by MP Dragan Nikolic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of today's publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -193, no one, with abstentions, voted one of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I'm putting to vote the Bill of Amendments and Family Law Supplements, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -194, against - no one with abstentions - there are none who have not voted, of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill of Amendments and Family Law Supplements, most of the votes. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Inheritance, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -193, no one, with abstentions, voted one of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to Article 8 which, in the same text, have been submitted by MP Dragan Nikolic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Snezana Malović, Aleksandar Senić, Dr. Blagoja Bradić and Dusan Petrovic. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of today's publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -194, against - no one with abstentions - there are none who have not voted, of the 194 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Inheritance, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -193, no one, with abstentions, voted one of the 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Inheritance. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly decide only on the bill, in general. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of today's publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 190, against -one, abstention - no, three of the 194 MPs in attendance did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the entry into force of the law supplementing the Law on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities in the war crimes proceedings within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes procedure, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -182, v - five abstentions - no, seven of the 194 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law supplementing the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the war crimes proceedings. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, which were referred to by the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, if, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, he may request, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known on the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 16 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103 and regarding Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - three, abstentions - no, 173 of the total of 185 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 16 hours and 27 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - three, abstention - one, did not vote 170 of the total attendance of 182 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 18 hours and 07 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against - three, abstentions - none, 168 of the total attendance of 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 18 hours and 56 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – nine, against - three, abstentions - there is no vote168 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 18 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against -4 abstentions - no, 164 of the 179 MPs present were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 1900 hours, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - ten, against - four, abstentions - there is no vote164 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 19 hours and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against - two, abstentions - no, they did not vote164 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 19 January 2015, at 20 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against - three, abstentions - there is no vote, 163 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 21 January 2015, at 10 o'clock and 10 minutes, pointed to a violation of members from 105 to 118. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, v - five abstentions - no, 157 of the 173 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vladimir Pavicevic, at a session on 21 January 2015, at 11 o'clock and 52 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - four, abstentions - there is no vote, 169 of the total attendance of 173 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
