ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23047	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament shall put their identification cards in the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 119 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Konstantin Arsenović, Nada Lazic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the First Point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23048	Good afternoon, Mr. President. My fellow Members, we have submitted an amendment which, I think, better solves all the problems that exist today and the reasons why we have even had a debate today, we have a debate on amendments and additions to the Act on Oversight of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. We heard in the debate that the main reason for the adoption of this law is the interest of citizens, citizens who, under the applicable law of 1 March of this year, would no longer be able to be able to work in the municipal, administration bodies, in courts but exclusively with public notebooks. We agreed that the work of a public notary institution in Serbia cannot be done today. We did not, of course, agree on who was responsible. I don't know how the majority who passed the law in 2011 could be responsible for this, and not the majority who passed this law in 2014 less than six months ago and predicted this six-month deadline in which the job could not be done, and how is it not the current minister who convinced us that this job would be completed six months ago? He convinced us here that it was not a problem that only 94 notebooks were appointed until August of last year. He explained to us here and assured us that all public notebooks in all municipalities would be selected within six months. I'm trying, I hope you don't mind if I speak a little louder. Thank you. He assured us that there would be no need for this work to be done in the courts and bodies of the municipal administration, that it would facilitate the work of the courts, that the courts would work faster and better, and that municipal administrations would deal with citizens' problems, communal problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23049	Please, just be quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23050	We have found that all of this is not the case and that this deadline should now be extended by two more years. It is then said that it is in the citizens' interest to keep an overwrite and manuscript in municipal administrations and courts because it is cheaper, because according to the law, certain categories are applied which are released in respect of copying and manuscripts, and also because the different prices are the same service when you do so in the municipal administration or court compared to those tariffs prescribed in the tariff rule in public notebooks. Also, some colleagues spoke six months ago and today, that is, two days ago in the debate on how the problem will be when elections come, when a large number of signatures are to be certified for teaching the list and how good it is that this deadline will be extended because at the time of the elections, it will be possible for municipal administrations and courts to collect citizens' signatures as they have so far. That's why we have submitted an amendment that we believe can be done in a better way to solve all these problems. The point of the amendment is that municipal administrations continue this business to work permanently, not just for the next two years, but permanently. We believe that even in two years, there will be no such network of public notebooks that will allow each municipality and every city to have sufficient number of public notebooks that will be able to do this job in a good way. So, the point of the amendment is that municipal administrations continue to do the job permanently, and courts work until the end of this year, i.e. 1 January 2016. Why do we think this solution is better? If the interest of all of us is here, and we've heard a lot about it to protect the citizens, this way we'll protect the citizens to pay cheaper services because they're cheaper today when you're doing over the signatures, transcripts and manuscripts in the municipality or in the court, than in the notaries. This problem can be solved, and I have asked you here to ask the Minister to amend the Regulation in a way to bring the tariffs of public notebooks into line with those tariffs that exist in the tariff law that are charged when you verify something in the municipality or in court. It's, I mean, in the interest of public notebooks too because if you have a situation of overing, let's say, confirmations that parents have to take out if they travel abroad, only one parent, if it's in the municipality of 230 dinars, and in a public notebook of 1,800 dinars, no one will go to a public notary, and then he'll lose the ability to pay that 230 dinars. So if their services are more expensive, no one will go, no one will do any favors. I think it's in the interest of the notary to release that tariff and comply with the tariffs in municipalities and courts because in the next two years no one will go there to do this part of the job. It is therefore important that the minister hears because he did not want to come and he has avoided coming to talk about his responsibility because this job has not been completed in the previous six months, to hear what we have discussed today, I ask, first of all, the MPs of the majority to transfer the application to amend the Regulation in a way to bring the tariffs of public notebooks with tariffs that exist for services that, in the case of oversigned signatures, transcripts and manuscripts, are charged in municipalities and courts because it is too much in the interests of the citizens, but I think it is in the interest of the public notaries, because they will be left without that income, absolutely. Also, I've spoken these palms to some people who are employed by municipal administrations on this job. People have been shaking with fear for the last few weeks, wondering what would happen to them when this deadline was due to expire. Is he gonna lose his job? Will they be transferred to another workplace? By this law, as you predicted to extend the deadline only for the next two years, we will again put them in a position to take care of their existence, that in January, in February 2017, since I see that the Justice Committee has submitted an amendment which essentially extends this deadline by two more months, so will these people again take care of their existence in early 2017? Where will he work, will he work, and what will he do? I'm sure in two years we'll be in a position to discuss this law again, to re-establish that a network is not made of quality enough that it can take over all these jobs and in those municipalities where public notebooks are appointed and that we'll re-discuss that this deadline is extended. That's why I urge you to accept our amendment, which leaves the possibility of permanent or amendments to the law, as we now amend the law. I'm being criticised for proposing that the law be changed. Well, we're just changing the law because we've put on some unreal deadline, and I suggest we not set deadlines, but the moment the Ministry estimates that the public record network is high enough to be able to take over this whole business, that at that point, and whether it's going to be in a year, two, three, five, we change the law and all of these jobs, if the conditions have been created, we switch to public notebooks and rule out municipalities from that. I agree that courts shouldn't be involved in this business, that they have important jobs, especially if we have this four-month strike that the minister has caused with his poor bill that we've adopted here, and that's why we think courts shouldn't be doing this job. At the very end of the line, there is a municipal administration in every municipality, but there is not exactly a court in every municipality, there is a court office, and I think it makes more sense that these jobs are done only by the authorities of the municipal administration. I believe that this amendment proposed by the Committee does not solve the situation of what happens in those municipalities, larger municipalities, cities, where the appointment of some notebooks may be, but perhaps not enough number of notebooks, as required by the law of two, three notebooks that exist in a municipality, a city, is already appointed only one. What happens in that case? By reading this amendment, this means that it will stop the possibility of courts and municipal administrations in these municipalities from 1 March 2017 to do this job, and only one notary will certainly not be able to do all this. I think this solution is worse. So I urge you to accept our solution. It enables uninterrupted work by municipalities, cities and municipal administrations, and above all makes it easier for citizens to do this job. It guarantees them that they will pay lower prices, guarantee that it will not be everything we have heard and what can happen when elections occur, and the elections will be both 2016 and 2017 and 2018. If we look, there will be regular local elections, then presidential elections, then parliamentary elections. So there will always be some elections, there will always be a question of signing. That's why we think this solution is better. At the end of the line, it is also better for those people who work in the municipalities of this job today, because they will not have to fear for their jobs, as they have these days worried about what will happen to them since March 1st. Now they have some certainty that two years will be peaceful, but first I don't believe that in two years this job will be able to switch completely to public records and I believe that in a little less than two years or two years we'll be able to discuss the extension of this deadline again. That's why I think our solution is more meaningful.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23051	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23052	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I must point out firstly that this is one of the four amendments that are most meaningful within all of us so far and that a considerable amount of attention has been paid to this amendment. In fact, if nothing else, then it is quite clear and the text of the amendment, it is also a clear explanation of this amendment. It wasn't going to be some kind of mockery with the intended solution, or the change that was proposed here. Namely, with regard to the amendment that counterpart Djurisic explained, I can agree with a part of what he said himself. In fact, counterpart Djurisic mentioned that people were shaking with fear. At this point, of course, they don't have to shake fear, because they believe that the proposed solution will be adopted, with the fact that perhaps, if the two-year deadline turns out to be insufficient, it also retains the possibility that the proposed solution remains to be done. The bottom line is, we're actually deciding between two solutions here. The first is what the amendment itself is saying, and it is precisely to prevent it from falling on the last day of this week, so as of Monday, citizens will be exclusively referred to public notebooks as someone who will be solely responsible for all the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Another option is not to accept such a solution. Now, by not accepting such a solution, we are, in fact, only representing the interests of public notebooks. Then we send a message – here you are, citizens, here you are, from March 1st, go to public notebooks. I agree with my colleague Djurisic when he mentioned the tariff on public notebooks. For the same reason, I personally believe that this tariff should be drastically lower, but I will ask the Minister of Justice when he is present, along with my colleague Djurisic. When the interpretation of this amendment is said – we are in favour of this being a permanent solution, it means keeping one dualism where certification jobs will be performed by all, and public notebooks, and basic courts, and municipal administrations. If, for example, in attitude 2 behind the word "trusted business" puts an end to everything else, it means that no deadline is foreseen. Then the question arises – and what will the state of Serbia be doing to the Institute of Public Registration? Then we don't need public records. So let's say -- we shouldn't have passed the law, we're a little overcalculated, we don't know what we were doing in 2011. On the other hand, when it is said – we are in favour of not putting any deadlines on, I am sorry, this amendment puts a deadline until 1 January 2016. So, a shorter deadline than the deadline actually foreseen by the amendment and the deadline submitted by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government under the amendments. The reason for not accepting this amendment, regardless of what I said, is that one of the four amendments submitted is extremely meaningful, and since it makes sense, is essentially seen in the absence of its position 3. You know, in Section 3, you had to set a certain deadline, because Section 3 of this amendment reads...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23053	I'm asking MPs for a little quiet, and I'm asking you to approach the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23054	Thank you. In this regard, Article 3(3) of the proposed amendment reads: “In cities, i.e. in municipalities where public notebooks are not appointed, until the appointment of public notebooks, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts will be certified by the basic courts, judicial units, as well as the reception offices of the basic courts, in accordance with Article 13(4). The Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors." So there's no deadline here. What if, for example, the appointment of public notebooks in their full number, say, on the territory of a municipality for which public notebooks are intended, are appointed for example. in this period which you have proposed under Article 2, 1 January 2016? Will this mean that this attitude 3 actually ceases jurisdiction in both courts and municipal administrations if public notebooks are appointed before? Therefore, the essence of why this amendment is not accepted is reflected in its position 3. If you had entered a deadline, if you had predicted a situation that is better regulated, and until the appointment of a public notebook, then it would have made sense to discuss and possibly adopt such an amendment. I'm saying, the intention is good and it's one of the more meaningful amendments, but because of the failure made in attitude 3 this amendment cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23055	By the way, I've given you time for the MPs' group to spend. Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23056	I'm just confused with this last sentence by my colleague Batic, who said that the reason for refusing our amendment is the attitude of our 3rd amendment. I don't know if she's overlooked part of the sentence that says: "until the appointment of public notebooks", which is set out in paragraph 3, and Article 3 that we have put into our amendment is the prescribed point 3 of the current Law, meaning, prescribed, from word to word. You have not touched Section 3 with your proposal on amendments and additions to this law at all. That's what the Justice Committee did, and you didn't do it. I don't understand why you're criticizing us now because we've rewritten, from word to word, a valid position 3. The law. You're now saying that the valid position 3. The law isn't good, and even you didn't remember it wasn't good and you didn't propose to amend it, but it was done by the Justice and Administration Committee, which is, let me put it this way, a better way than the current Article 3. The law's done. I still don't understand the criticism of us. You could have said -- here, in the current Law, Section 3 wasn't best defined, so we agreed to change it on the Committee. Don't criticize us and just say that Article 3 is a reason to refuse because it's prescribed by a valid law and has nothing to do with what I've been saying. The bottom line of our amendment is that municipal administrations, without restrictions, continue to do this job, that courts work shorter than you predicted, do this job only until the end of this year, to dissipate the courts. I repeat, there is a municipal administration in every municipality in Serbia that does the job. There is no court in every municipality, seat of the court. That's why we've set a shorter deadline for the courts, and in the municipalities to keep that job permanently to work. I beg you, we can then discuss whether this solution is better or not, one way or another, but don't say you won't accept our amendment because of Article 3 which is the same prescribed by the applicable law, which you didn't propose to amend by your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23057	Olga Batic, I give you the replica because the MP spoke to you and told you that he did not understand your views.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23058	Thank you. I think my colleague Djurisic should have listened to me very carefully. I didn't even criticise this amendment at all, but I commended it, as one of the four amendments that make sense, unlike the rest of the rain at least pointless. It is true that the draft law does not provide for Article 3. Here, I'll admit my own mistake, it's my fault everything that hasn't been done right and there's no problem, and then when I noticed, you say, it's not me, it's the Justice Committee. Yes, I've initiated, I'm a member of that same Justice Committee, you know, it's human when you see a mistake, then you correct it. But if you wanted to correct your mistake with your amendment, and you're saying now that you want the permanent solution to be both municipal administrations and public notebooks, then I'm sorry, all the lawyers here know, and I think maybe the wrongdoers do, but let's just say it out loud, sorry, but the transitional and final provisions can't change the material provisions and that's the point. Then why didn't you read this law, why didn't you look at the analysis of its application, why didn't you suggest, so here's the citizens of Serbia, we're taking care of you, we've seen that deadline expire soon and you'll have to verify everything in the public notebook? If it makes you feel any better, you can blame it all on me, I'll take it, I confessed, but don't pay any respects to me that don't matter. Here I have to point out that here we deal with the consequences all the time, we don't deal with the causes. Then we should have said -- you know, in 2011, we got a little carried away, we don't need public records at all. The Law on Public Records is governed by an institute, and when you pass a law, if the legislator is serious enough, then he does some analysis of the effects, so see if it makes any sense to pass that law at all. Because the law was not only passed to bring, but to apply, and as it was brought, it caused everything that followed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23059	Two minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23060	All right, I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23061	Thank you. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the impression that the parliamentary group led by Mr Marko Djurisic is an opponent of public notebooks, but then the question arises why they voted in 2011 for the Law on Public Notes and why the Institute of Public Registration was introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. We also talked about it in principle, and I don't know if Mr. Djurisic was present at that time in the O.R., regarding the tariffs of public notebooks. It is possible that Mr Djurisic, as someone who is not a lawyer, did not have it in mind, but the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe that most of the MPs who voted for the Law on Public Records and then knew, in 2011, four years ago, that the services provided by public notebooks and services concerning the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts would be more expensive than the services provided by municipal administrations, i.e. basic courts, for one simple reason we discussed in principle. Courts, or municipal administrations, are financed from the budget. The public notebook is a physical person who practically professionally performs a public notebook function. So it's someone who lives, among other things, from certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. Then it is quite logical that his services are more expensive than the services of institutions financed from the budget. This is what Mr Djurisic and his MP group, or MPs who voted for the Public Registration Act in 2011, had to know, but they kept quiet about it at the time. They said the Law on Public Registration is an extremely good law, and they hid from Serbian citizens that public notebook services would be more expensive than services provided by basic courts, or municipal administrations. Now that they had become the opposition, when they lost power, they remembered the tariffs of public notebooks, or they remembered that public notebooks were more expensive than basic courts or municipal administrations. I completely agree with what my colleague Olgica Batic said, which you passed in 2011 the Law on Public Libraries, if you were not clear about whether the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, could Serbian economy serve the services of public notebooks? At the time, the Law on Public Libraries was good for you, you told us then – we need to adopt the Law on Public Libraries, and now, as far as I can tell, you are opponents of public notebooks and you are doing everything you can to delay the work of public notebooks. What's also controversial in your amendment and I'm surprised that your colleagues who have not noticed. In your amendment, you say that the basic courts, the judicial units and the reception offices of the basic courts are doing the paperwork and the transcripts as a confidential business. The courts, Mr. Djurishic, are state bodies. Verification of manuscripts, signatures and transcripts is the business of state authorities. State authorities are not entrusted with the business of state authorities. The business of the state authorities is entrusted to non-state bodies. That's one of the reasons why your amendment cannot be accepted. The next thing I want to point out, you are persistently avoiding reading the text of the Bill on Amendments to the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. It refers to municipalities, or cities in which public notebooks are appointed. So, not to local self-government units where there are no public notebooks, but where there are. You are constantly pointing out the responsibility of the justice minister why there are not enough public notebooks in Serbia, and the bill refers to local self-government where public notebooks are available. Now I ask you, since you are constantly asking some questions from the Minister of Justice, where is the minister of justice, why are they not appointed -- how many public notebooks were appointed while the DS you were then in charge of the Republic of Serbia? How many are called? You're wondering about the price of services. I talked about it in principle. Your colleagues knew that. Mrs. Snezana Malovic, I don't know if she was here, she knew it. That's when you kept your mouth shut, now you're talking about it, but you're talking about it tentically as if the minister of justice was responsible. What's this about? You've prescribed someone to become a public register of the sea next to the law school, in addition to a law exam, to pass a public record exam, he has to provide an office of appropriate squares, right? He has to pay the deposit to be entered into the 5,000-euro public register if I'm not mistaken, that there must be a number of employees in the public office, right? Is that what it costs, Mr. Djurishich? It's worth it. You knew it cost you in 2011 and then you didn't mind. Now in 2015 you have the courage to say – yes, but how now the services of public notebooks to be more expensive than the services of basic courts and municipal administrations? Well, a little kid knows, and I'm already stupid to repeat myself. These are funded from the budget, these are funded only by what they do. So, they have to finish college, pass a judicial exam, pass a public record exam, pay for admission to a public record chamber, provide the office with appropriate squares, that in that office, if I'm not mistaken, they have to have a safe of appropriate dimensions, have employees in the public office. I'm sorry, it's costing. What you have introduced is an institution that is expensive, which does not correspond to the economic opportunities in which the Republic of Serbia is present and in which it was in 2011. I really don't see what the Minister of Justice's fault is about the public records situation. I am not convinced that the Law on Public Libraries was so necessary on the European path of the Republic of Serbia. It was not necessary, but you brought it in then, and you said, "This is a great law." As you have brought many, under the precepts, great laws that don't suit you today. Do not blame the SNS and the Minister of Justice for the situation in the judiciary in general, even when the question is public notebooks. We have received all of this problem with public notebooks from you and are now trying to find the best possible solution for the citizens, for the courts, for the municipal administrations, and for the public records themselves. So, you blame yourself for one objectively, I won't say bad law by yourself, but for a law that is objectively inapplicable or not applicable until the end in the Republic of Serbia now you say – we have nothing to do with it. I'm sorry, you've passed that law. I keep getting the impression that you would want collective amnesia to prevail in Serbia, that we all forget what happened by 2012. If the problems had started, not with Nikola Selakovic, but with the Law on Public Logs that you have brought, which has prepared your Ministry of Justice, you have prescribed conditions that must be met by public notebooks, you have not appointed any public notary and you are now asking – where is the minister of justice that we should ask him, and what is not appointed enough public notebooks? First of all, you can't make anyone become a public notary if he doesn't want to. It's every lawyer's private decision whether or not he wants to become a public notary. The fact that there are 94 people in Serbia, not 300 public notebooks, is not the fault of the minister of justice. Like you can't get any graduate lawyer to be a judge, to be a prosecutor to be a lawyer if he doesn't want to. So it's a matter of someone's professional choice. Someone as a lawyer wants to work at the municipal administration, someone wants to work in a court of law, someone wants to work in a public prosecutor's office, someone wants to be a lawyer, someone wants to do agriculture, someone wants to be a public register. The fact is that we public notebooks don't have enough is a fact, but it's not the Ministry of Justice's fault. He doesn't appoint a minister of justice as a public notary, nor does he have mechanisms to force someone into a public record chamber. That explanation of yours is completely pointless. I repeat again, you have not read or tended to read the text of the bill. The text of the bill refers to municipalities, or cities where public notebooks are appointed. So there is no question of public notebooks. There are them, and we only leave them to citizens, i.e. legal entities who need to verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, leave them the possibility of choosing to do so either in public notebooks or in primary courts or in the municipal administration. I really don't see what the problem is except for the basic problem that arose in 2011 when a law was passed in the Republic of Serbia that is objectively difficult to implement. We are fighting the law now because you have passed a law that is objectively difficult to apply in the light of the legal political, economic, social conditions that are in force and that exist in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23063	Thank you. You want a replica? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: Replica, if possible. Because there are more reported, so if it's according to the amendment, we'll take the turn. Here, you have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23064	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I can agree with my colleague Martinovic that the bill refers to the shift of deadlines in these municipalities where public notebooks are appointed. Unfortunately for him, there is an amendment to the Committee on Justice, which was also mentioned by counterpart Batic that she initiated the amendment that changes and other parts of the member we are discussing today, not just the one that talks about moving the deadline. Once again, the Law on Public Libraries was passed in 2011 eight times since then, seven times in the term of Minister Selakovic, seven times the law has been amended. So, in the last six months, he's been changed twice. So what does this law today have to do with that law that was passed in 2011? Not at all. Why is the minister responsible? Well, Minister Nikola Selakovic brought a tariff rule, his signature stands on it, not some other minister, his signature stands. And I was telling you, purely business logic, if that's what you want, and I'm not against public notebooks, but you are. If the service in the public notebook is two, three, five, twenty times more expensive than in the municipality or court, who will go to the public register? Nobody. It is therefore in the interest of public notebooks to comply with tariffs charged by them and which will be charged by municipalities and courts over the next two years. So, just by extending this deadline, you're making an attack on public records. You don't give them the chance to work and make money. Excuse me, if I have to pay for something in the municipality of 300 dinars and 1,800 dinars in public, I'll go to the municipality as a citizen. It's a citizen's interest, and that's good, but I'm not against a public notary when I say -- cut the minister's tariff so the public notebook can charge 300, so someone might go to the public register. This way, no one's gonna lose their income. You are precisely showing that you do not know in which way this system should be introduced to be both in the interests of citizens and in the interests of public notebooks. You made it in the beginning to be exclusively in the interest of public notebooks...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23065	MP, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23066	... Now you're just taking away one jurisdiction, income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23067	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23068	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Djurishic, here I am now trying to explain to you again how it all started. Imagine that you are a graduate lawyer who is a public notary and that you support yourself and your family members exclusively from doing a public record job. So you're in one situation, and in another situation are courts and municipal administrations that are financed from the budget. You finance yourself, and these are financed from the budget, there is no need for any specific legal or economic intelligence to understand that public notary services are by definition, by force of economic laws more expensive than the services of courts and municipal administrations. It is not disputed that it can be discussed that the tariffs of public notebooks are lower, but they can't be, at least I don't think they can be, maybe I'm not smart enough, at the level of service prices, when it comes to signatures, manuscripts and transcripts provided by basic courts and municipal administrations. Why? If there are 300 dinars in the public register, as you say, in the court of 300 dinars, and we have a shortage of public notebooks, who's going to want to become a public notary if he has to, in addition to a law school, in addition to a law exam, pass another public record exam, to give 5,000 euros to secure the office...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23069	I've given it 48 seconds longer and I have to keep my mouth shut now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23070	... the appropriate squares, that there is an appropriate safe, etc., and I have 300 dinars, which of which I live, and 300 dinars are with an institution that is financed from the budget. No one smart would want to become a public notary. You say we have a problem with public notebooks, or the number of public notebooks. We do, but what you persistently or won't understand or simply keep quiet from the citizens, you knew, I don't mean personally, maybe you didn't do so much, don't get me wrong, because I don't have a problem communicating with you, but your government and your Ministry of Justice knew that the services of public notebooks would be expensive, but then the question arises, why did you bring public notes, who forced you to do it?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23071	Everything's understandable, everyone's always looking for a second, but thank you, the other part's expired. Thank you. Let me see which order we go in, we'll finish, because this isn't the amendment anymore, it's the law in general, and then you'll wait, and then you'll get the amendment, and now you'll wait. Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic first answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23072	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's session started quite nicely for me, there was no invitation to the Rules of Procedure, i.e. the Constitution and I just thought it would continue in this style, but again as the old one. And I welcome the decision to move this deadline, but at the same time, since I am one of those who, at the session of his session, sent an appeal to the minister to allow local self-government to continue doing these jobs, and at the request of these students who now, when they met me, told me that they had voiced their suspicion that there would be no such thing at all, that local self-governments could still verify signatures, manuscripts, etc. I don't have that problem calling for what happened in 2011. The fact that someone once sinned doesn't justify us being wrong right now. And we made mistakes through the amendments to this law, because we didn't see, we weren't too far-sighted to see that this couldn't go through this way after March 1st. I don't have any problem accepting a smart proposal, whether it comes from a position or from an opposition. And I'm up for this change in local self-government, even courts, to be permanent. As far as that compensation is concerned, I think it's enormously large for our terms, and at the same time, I'm ready with my colleagues past this discussion to sit down and consider, see if the notaries can accept that compensation to be the same as in the municipalities. I was president of the Starship Community, and today I'm often in that community and often communicate with them. At the head of the municipality are Democrats, so as not to praise some municipality, where the advances are and I can tell you that they really do this job extremely well and to the satisfaction of the citizens. Employees working on these jobs justify their receipts through those funds that are paid to the budget. If we have a situation where one court makes a million dollars a year, it's huge resources that the state will lose, and the notaries that get 10, 20 grand or I don't know how many of these overruns a year can cover their expenses and make a pretty nice living out of those funds. So I think we should have understanding, no matter who these proposals come from, to accept what is in the interest of the citizens and what makes them the greatest profit. In the end, look at the oath we all took. We promised to do everything in the interest of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23073	Olga Batic, you have four minutes and five seconds from the group, and you have spent this time as a promoter for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23074	Thank you, esteemed president, for notifying me. Namely, I have already repeated, and I will risk it again and again, I have already said about this amendment, which was submitted by a group of MPs, which was explained by my colleague Djurisic. It is no longer clear to me what your position is after the amendment has been submitted. First, you set a shorter deadline by 1 January 2016, and I can agree, you say that basic courts should be relieved of certification operations, and I can agree with that. You're saying Serbia doesn't have enough public records and I can agree with that and I said so myself. You're saying that this amendment committee corrects the proposals' mistakes, and I can agree with that, I'm not running away from admitting mistakes, but the problem is why someone else admits, is running away from admitting their mistakes. You're still saying that dualism needs to be maintained, so the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are both municipal administrations and public notebooks, and I can agree with that, only one thing is disputed, Mr. Djurisic. The lawyers know that. The transitional and final provisions cannot make changes to the material provisions, that is, the essence of which is taught at law school. You want a permanent solution. Yeah, but that permanent solution would have pulled some other changes, so today we'd be discussing a larger number of changes, and if it's easier for you to blame me, you're free to keep doing it, I see that there are criticisms coming to my account, with an easier attack on the opposition. Why don't you read the law, why don't you read the basic law? The law you passed in 2011. At one point you say - this is an attack on public notebooks, and now you say, there are not enough public notebooks. I don't know what your parliamentary group's position is. Are public notebooks supposed to exist or not, in 2011 they were supposed to exist and then nobody asked questions about how much it cost that session where such a law was passed? You've supported that law. Today you say - this is an attack on public records. Which one? The institute you instituted in 2011. The issue at all is the justification of introducing the institute and was Serbia ready to apply the Institute of Public Registration. The point is what I mentioned, these are the consequences, not the causes. The causes of the 2011 Public Registration Act It's not that hard to admit a mistake. If I confess mine, confess you, too, at least those of your parliamentarians who have also passed such a law, when there was no opportunity, no political, no economic, no legal law to be passed, yet it was passed. There were two options, or if such a law had been applied since then, as it was done, whether it was good or not, I could say a lot on that subject, or if you had one law that didn't apply and nothing strange in the country of Serbia, we had other laws that had been passed, and they never applied, and then you said -- well, sorry, we didn't know what we were doing, we had free time, so we played a little bit of public records in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23075	The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23076	Of course, we're talking a lot now about public notebooks about the 2011 law. So, let me repeat -- seven times has been changed during the term of office of Minister Selakovic. First, only deadlines for the start of law enforcement were moved, and then essentially changed some other things. So there's nothing to do with the law passed in 2011 with that law that's in force today. It has nothing to do with a government that was until 2012 with the application of this law and the introduction of public notaries, because they were elected and entered into force when this government was in full power. After two years of this government, notaries were introduced in August or September last year. If there were no conditions, you could have moved that deadline. What does it matter, I repeat, the 2011 law? Secondly, we're talking about the law that was passed, about the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts brought in on August 31st last year, that's the subject today. Again, we are not against the introduction of notaries, we are against this way of introducing notaries. We're about to have a full number of notaries. We wanted to ask the minister, he said he would be, he said if by March 1, we didn't, God forbid, we had a notebook in Bujanovac, and I wanted to ask him if God or some other unholy force had prevented himself from being in Bujanovac and municipalities where we don't have a notary in these six months called notaries? That's what I wanted to ask him. What's the problem? Why are we talking about changing tariffs, economic logic? If there's anything more expensive at the notary six times, no one will come to finish anything here, they'll all go to municipalities and courts. So it's in the interest of the notary to cut tariffs even if they're below some economic level, because at least they're going to charge something. You introduced the system, if you remember, and I see you're forgetting, it was first prescribed when the notaries started working to get a piece of the reward, and then you took their 30 percent change and supplement. You're attacking their work. You're preventing new people from signing up. By not changing tariffs, you prevent someone from applying, because no one will come to the notary to pay for something two, three, six, 20 times more expensive if it can end up in the municipality in the next two years. So, in the next two years, no one's going to apply. I agree with my colleague Martinovic who needs these economic conditions to open an office and that it is difficult, but you make it impossible for them to charge at least something. You took 30 percent of their prize, you. You brought the whole prize to them first, then you say - we take 30%. You've changed that within a few months, so of course no one's going to apply for a notary today. You're destroying the introduction of that system, not us. We're telling you to make a plan, be consistent with everything that's going to happen on the road so that people who go into that business can know what they can expect. What can they expect now? An empty office for the next two years because no one will come to them unless the tariff is reduced. No one's crazy enough to go and pay for something three, four, five, 20 times more. The minister has to react, they're probably counting when this deadline is up, and we're going to charge everything now, so they had some economic interest maybe to borrow some money, take a loan, and they're going to pay back. Now, for two years, you've knocked that money out of their pockets if the tariff rule doesn't change. So it's in the interest of notaries, but also in the interest of citizens to pay nothing more than they paid six months ago. Both of these interests may be satisfied with the amendments to the Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23077	The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23078	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, here we are today talking about amendments and discussions that have been going on for more than an hour is so dilute that those who listen and follow this transmission are probably not now clear what we're talking about, so I'm going to try a few sentences to get back on the subject, i.e. to our amendment that we have proposed, the reason why we have proposed it, and also to respond to my colleagues because there have been various assessments, reflections, connotations about what we have submitted as a parliamentary group. So, respected citizens, we have submitted an amendment to the amendment to the law proposed by a group of MPs to Article 29, and it is not an amendment to the law in the essential sense, but it is merely a shift in the time limits of the application of certain provisions of this law relating to a copy of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I'll try to read everything, because there's a lot of lawyers here and they honor us who haven't finished law school that we're legally illiterate or semi-literate, anyway, and to refrain from discussing, but here we are with some of our humble knowledge to try to discuss this. It would be all right if this had proposed, you've already heard this in principle debate, the ministry who is also asking for a job to propose amendments to the law, to move deadlines and all proposals concerning the rights and legal sciences, but this was proposed by a group of MPs, and I will read it to you, the security deputies Mrs. Maja Gojković, Biljana Pantic Pilja, Olgica Batic, Dragan Nikolic, Dragan Polovina, Vesna Simic and Neđa Jovanovic. These are MPs who have seen that Serbian citizens will have a serious problem if the date is not moved and if the law is not delayed by 2017, which refers to the towns, or municipalities for which public notebooks, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts have been appointed to date in the cities, i.e. municipal administrations as the most trusted job since 1 March, and they have suggested it to be on 1 January 2017. Now I hear there's a new proposal from the Justice Committee that says it's until March 1st, but that's what we're talking about. What's the point here? The bottom line is that the ministry whose obligation was to move this deadline was to remove those commitments and leave the MPs of the assembly majority, that we understand ourselves well, to defend this proposal because the ministry was categorically six months ago when this law was passed, means not in 2011, six months ago, that by 1 March everything will be completed, there will be notaries in all places and they will be able to take over the full capacity of the work they are doing from 1 March 2015. What happened? We stayed on 94 notes instead of 350 as the minister of justice said, i.e. Every 25,000 people go to one notary, it's some norm that's prescribed, and we'd be in serious trouble as a society, citizens wouldn't be able to end those basic needs regarding oversigned signatures, transcripts, not to be wrong, and manuscripts. As a parliamentary group, we have proposed that this law in the work relating to the presence of notaries, i.e. specifically in cities, i.e. municipalities for which public notebooks, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are appointed until the date of entry into force of this law, can be certified by the basic courts by 1 January 2016, having the basic idea that, after 2016, they continue to do notaries and local self-government, with the desire to relieve courts that are already overworked, especially after a four-and-a-half-month strike, where there has been a stalemate in the judiciary, and now this job is piled up and we have to solve it and we thought by the end of the year that the courts will have the right to work, and after that it will not be completed on time as foreseen. To warn possible sessions that cost the Republic of Serbia's budget, and thus all citizens of Serbia by moving deadlines, we wanted to resolve it in one way that we no longer need to sit. I'm going to remind the citizens that before we were not full for more than a week, we had a session of the Assembly when we could discuss this point of the agenda, and it wasn't. We had January 21st, if I'm not mistaken. At the time, Minister Selakovic was here, when we adopted amendments to the Notary Law, which is why lawyers strike for four and a half months. We could have moved this deadline back then, because it was logical and reasonable that within a month they couldn't get a job and find all the notaries to pass that notary exam or whatever they had to do to be notaries. We didn't do it and we cost the budget. Why hide it and not say it? Why honor someone? Well, it is a expense. Two days a million dinars, two million dinars. That's what the budget costs, but no one's gonna take it. As my distinguished predecessors said in the discussions, no one wanted to accept responsibility. Well, yes, you were wrong. The fact is, you were wrong. Now we have various discussions. We have discussions that on our suggestion that what is in the minister's sole authority, which is the regulation of that regulation with prices, that it should be in the image, we have an explanation that notaries work on their own, that they pay not knowing how much to start their work, to take exams and that they should support families. Let me remind you of something, colleagues. There's a lot of doctors here. These, next year or in the next five years, will equalize private and state health. What do you think the Health Fund is going to pay different prices than it pays to the Network Plans? No, it's exactly the same price. Well, what kind of work is that you can do, and I'll read you what the price list that's adopted allows you to have four thousand points times 150 dinar, with VAT, that's 720,000. So, what job does a man need to do to do 720,000 in one day? (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: For what? I'd like to ask my fellow law school professor not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23079	Don't throw away, please, MPs, each other. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23080	Please, buddy, at least there shouldn't be a throwout here. After all, we are representatives of the people. Well, I'm not someone who's in class and I'm easily distracted, but I'll try to get back on the subject. So, what fellow Djurisic suggested was that in the form of a price list, the price list should be as it was before we introduced the notaries here. (Dear Nikolic, from the place: It is not a topic. Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask you, I'm really trying to be careful. It's really distracting me. Whether it's a subject or not, that's what you can say, not MPs. At least that's how it's in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23081	I've responded to the throws, but I can't hear every noise, I can't do that, otherwise I'd have a lot of work to do. Go on, you're not that sensitive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23082	Thank you. Our idea was to give the notaries a chance to work normally, not to have competition between local self-government, courts and notaries, but to be on the same terms and conditions on the market and that people can work and earn their bread through the work they do. We are honored here that we, I don't know, didn't think about it in 2011. For a reminder, as my esteemed colleague Marko Djurisic said, eight times the law has been changed in your time. It was first changed in 2012, when the deadline was extended. After that, you essentially changed the laws. You could have made the law whatever you wanted. With the majority you have you can vote that the country is gambling, it's not, but you can vote, so respect, what was adopted in 2011... Let me remind you, we haven't been in power since 2012. You have the full capacity of the government and you are changing the laws as you think the laws should look, in accordance with the policy and promises you made to the citizens, and therefore the stories that someone has been guilty since 2011, so if we go like this, then Emperor Dusan Silni, who passed the first code, will be guilty. So let's go back to the subject, talk about what it is, see what's best for Serbian citizens, and what we're talking about prices, that's an act brought by a minister, which we suggest changes. Normally, that you, in line with your policy and your promises to act and make a decision, but we, knowing that we cannot change your position and that you will vote what you intend, give citizens the opportunity to see that there is a different way of thinking, that there is a different policy, that there is a different solution to the problem. We think that the way you work is not good, and we're telling the citizens, and we're trying to convince you that we wouldn't have sessions of this kind again and with this subject, to make the best possible solution and to take that problem off the agenda. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23083	Thank you. I ask all MPs that when they say their position to be expensive parliamentary sessions, they pay attention to it, because democracy and the price of holding a session is immeasurable. Please consider what kind of message you send by repeating that the sessions are expensive. That's a pretty dangerous message. It is my suggestion as chairman of all MPs, because we know when and who has spoken those sentences, so I ask you not to make this an argument to criticise the law. According to the amendment, MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23084	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so they don't talk casually and don't mess around here with numbers and numbers as much as it costs, Mr. Bradic, at a valid tariff, a public note tariff, an over one signature on one paper list is two points. One point is 150 dinars. Two points are 300 dinars, and here, in principle debate and in particular, you scare the people as far as signing costs... What number did you mention, 750,000 dinars? Mr. Pavicevic mentioned some huge millions. So, I bring you as a public record of the paper on which something is written and on which my signature is to be verified. This now, according to the public record tariff, which, according to you, is very expensive, costs 300 dinars, and you are to become a public notary, here, Mr. Bradic, put yourself in that position, take out now 5.000 euros, pass all the exams, secure the office, secure the safe, secure the employees of the office and charge 300 dinars and support yourself and your family from those 300 dinars. Don't be hypocritical and practice social demagogy here. I know that you have now become the Social Democratic Party overnight...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23085	Ambassador, speak to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23086	I'm sorry. By yesterday, you were a classic liberal-capitalist, and now you've suddenly become a Social Democrats and I don't have a problem with that, but I want to tell you don't scare the citizens and tell the truth about how much it costs. If something really costs enormous, let's narrow it down to a reasonable measure. We're on the field now, not putting together public records. That's what you as a dentist may not understand. We're in the field of mere overtures of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, not making papers. That's what it costs. So to verify one piece of paper costs 300 dinars, it doesn't cost 750,000 dinars. Don't keep running a hack and campaign against the minister of justice as he allegedly provided some notaries because they're checking out a paper list, you're flirting with numbers, providing someone 400,000, someone 750,000, and they've provided 300 dinars. What you also won't understand, the Institute of Public Note, we did not take over from Bulgaria and Macedonia, but from Germany and Austria. Tell me, is the standard in Germany and Austria the same as the standard in Serbia? It's not 2015 or 2011, and you knew it, not personally, those who passed the Law on Public Registration, but then, people said to say, they made them crazy. Now all of a sudden, the public notebooks are expensive. They're expensive. The certificate isn't expensive. Some other public records are more expensive than courts, or municipal administrations, but it's your fault. Who forced you to bring public notes into Serbia, in Serbia that was poor, which was robbed, where hundreds of thousands of people were out of work. But let's just put that aside. We're on the field over. A list of charters costs 300 dinars, doesn't cost 750, doesn't cost 400, I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of dinars. Don't scare the citizens and tell the truth that something costs a lot more than it actually costs. Here, I said, two points that's 300 dinars. One point is 150 dinars. It's simple mathematics to overwrite a list of records, when I want to verify something, it costs 300 dinars. Is that something enormous? It's not. You're a dentist, if I'm not mistaken, can you now, if you open a private office, provide dental services at the same prices as they do in health homes? Can you do that? You can't. You can't, Mr. Bradiche, here's my head I guarantee you can't and you know you can't. Then why are you making public notes, which are, you say, on the market? Since when are the courts on the market? Since when are municipal administrations on the market? Do you know what the market is? So you've completely mixed the institutes, tariffs, prices, etc. with one single political goal -- strike with your strength at Nikola Selakovic, strike with your strength at the government, strike with your strength at Vukic. They're responsible for the state of justice, they're responsible for the public records problem, we're not to blame for anything. It is that we have introduced public records, it is that we know that it is one institution that we have taken over from the Germans. The Germans live a thousand times better than we do, but what do we care? It's Wolf's fault. This is too serious a matter, Mr. Braddick, to talk about it as casually as you're trying to. I don't mind, talk about numbers, talk about numbers, tell me what it costs, but tell me how it really is. Don't be afraid of citizens that something costs a lot more than it really costs. Turns out you're the only one who has access to the public record tariff and no one else, that's some secret document on which the former regime MPs have a monopoly, and it's only them who tell citizens what it says in the public record tariff, like in the Middle Ages. Every scripture was written in Latin and could only be read by one who knew Latin, 99% of people did not know Latin. You're now acting like you're the only one who knows Latin and the rest of us don't know Latin and only you know what it costs. You have the insight into the public record tariff as well as I do. It's a public document. You know what the point is - one point 150 dinars, two points 300 dinars. One more thing, in the mass of business of public notebooks over signatures, manuscripts and transcripts that cost 300 dinars, let's not bid now, the fifth part of the total work done by public notebooks. This is the cheapest job public notebooks can do. If you've found 300 dinar jobs here at these jobs to show how you're a social just man, Mr. Bradich, you've completely missed the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23087	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, a replica. You've said his name ten times. You could've kept your mouth shut, but you wanted to.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23088	Thank you. My colleague seems to be following my discussion closely, and I feel the same way when he speaks to me personally. So you're wrong, Mr. Martinovic, absolutely. I listened very carefully. You're absolutely wrong. Let's go from the last thing you said to me is that overa is the cheapest, but that's the most common job. What do you think, that every day they move houses and buy property? No, I don't. Every day, signatures, transcripts and manuscripts are certified. (Alexander Martinovic, from the scene: When was the last time you confirmed something? )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23089	Ambassador Martinovic, I can give you a measure if you continue to throw and ask Ambassador Blago Bradic when he last approved something. Please don't. I won't warn you because it's with a smile.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23090	I've gone 50 seconds. As for the price, our insistence on equating the price is to protect the business of public notebooks, and it's not demagogy, that they have the same competitiveness on the market. It is in Minister Selakovic's command, he gives consent to the value of the point. I got from the notaries, so I didn't make this up, that the lowest prize of the notebook is 60 points times 150 dinars is 9,000 dinars, plus 1,800 dinars of VAT 20%. What you said was 300 dinars is per list and you said that without VAT, plus 20% VAT, to remind you, if you want to be exact. No one wants to scare the citizens of Serbia here. I hope to be honest that we all here advocate that the laws we make, no matter what the debate may be, whether it is pleasant or unpleasant, be at the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. And I care about notary work coming to life, and you were talking about dentistry.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23091	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23092	I'll use the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23093	You cannot use the replica. The second time, and you have a little more time from the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, I am using the right to replicate Mr. Martinovic, who mentioned me for our debate on this subject today. I believe, the respected president of the National Assembly, that it is inappropriate to talk about very important matter, as Mr Martinovic said, in such a way that it comes down to coin – this is the hack of a minister. 'Well, it can't, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, what is the function of our Assembly, and the function of our Assembly is to control the actions of every single minister in this government, that it comes down to coin – it is a hack of the Minister, especially, respected gentlemen, when we are all here to witness the debate on this point of the agenda that Minister Selakovic has made a terrible mistake, precisely, the respected presidents of the National Assembly, on this subject, proposing several times several changes to one of these same matter, honored gentlemen, so we have to discuss today and adopt a change of deadline for which we have warned Mr Selakovic and Mr. Selakovic that he can't be worth it, that we'll be gathered here to change it, gentlemen. We warned, respected presidents, both Mr Selakovic and Mr Martinovic that we should not wear every barbarium in legal clothes. Mr. Selakovic was deaf about it, but not only Mr. Selakovic, but also SNS MPs, including Mr. Martinovic. My expectation, honourable president, is that Mr. Martinovic, here today, too, stands up and says: I was wrong to follow the wrong proposals of Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23095	I'll give you a replica, but this was a provocation so that you could keep replicating each other without talking about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23096	Thank you, Madam President. I thank you for your suggestion. Really, I'm not answering for a word on this amendment anymore. Mr Pavicevic, you say that the National Assembly is an organ that controls the work of the government and the authorities of the state administration, or ministers. That's true, but it's the National Assembly and the representative body. We represent citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were in the March 2014 elections, it was not so long ago, given the plebiscite SNS support you mentioned and Alexander Vukic to draw up a new government of the Republic of Serbia to get Serbia out of the difficult situation it is in. As I do not dispute your right to control, as you say, and to criticise the work of the Government, do not then contest the right of SNS MPs to defend the work of the Government, including the work of Mr Selakovic, who is not responsible for being someone else, or a party whose list you were on in 2011 from the German legal system into the Serbian legal system introduced one institute, without absolutely not responding to the economic situation that exists in the Republic of Serbia, does not correspond to the social situation, social conditions, etc. I don't know which way you're talking about. In the wrong way, Serbia went from 2000 to 2012, and we came to where we came from, and now we're trying to correct all the wrong Drinas. Is it possible to correct them all overnight? No, but we're trying to fix them one by one. And this is one effort that we're making to allow you to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23097	Thank you. This was a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23098	... On the one hand, public notaries live, and on the other hand, to protect the interests of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23099	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I really did not intend to report today, and especially following this first amendment, because our authorised representative, Ms. Olgica Batic, very well explained and explained why we cannot accept this amendment from the SDS parliamentary group, but after a discussion that I heard from the MPs who defended this amendment, I really had to report to the citizens of Serbia to explain how we came to this moment, that someone who was heartily supporting the introduction of the notary system in the Republic of Serbia, had suddenly turned his stance and is now against public notebooks. It's been mentioned that seven times we've changed the Public Notebooks Act for these two and a half years. Of course, three times we've expanded the start of validity, or the application of this law, given that it wasn't a sufficient number of notaries. There were not enough notes because, and it was very studio-explanatoryly explained by Mr Martinovic, I would not repeat it, the public realized, it was necessary to complete the law school, to pass a judicial exam, to have five years of work experience, to pass a notary exam, to provide rooms, to put a certain amount as a guarantee for the material damage you produce, to have a special cash register. It's a very small number of people in Serbia. It's a small number of people who have dealt with this profession honorably, and it's mostly judges and prosecutors, who were only able to survive from receiving it monthly. No one has that kind of savings. It's a very small number of people who saved that kind of money. That's why we have 94 notes in Serbia. Not because Nikola Selakovic doesn't like them, not because Nikola Selakovic doesn't want to have them. I think he is the first man in this country to wish there were already 375 notes in Serbia, as long as it takes, how much minimum to cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we have a problem that many have reported to be notaries in places where there is already a notary. They don't want to come to Vranje, Preshevo, Bujanovac. They won't come, they don't have conditions, they don't have a chance to make any money there. When we swapped for a lawyer strike, I just ask those people who have never been a lawyer, not to defend us lawyers, us people who live out of it all their lives. I'm an example of that. I'm a man of profession. Ever since I graduated law school, I've been a lawyer intern, and now I've been a lawyer for over 25 years, and I'm asking that none of you defend me. We've been on a strike, and we know why we've been strikein', and we've come to an agreement that you've been up against. You cried to the sky on January 19th, January 21st. You were not comfortable with us making an agreement, which was the Serbian Attorney's Chamber, my chamber, with the Ministry of Justice, made a compromise, a deal, and we all here, as MPs, stood behind that proposal, realized that it was necessary and that we had to move on. No, you'd like us to stand in place, run back and create problems, not solve them. On January 19th, when I was talking about amendments to the Law on Public Registration, I made one guff, spinned with newspaper texts, spinning various shows about how 4,000 dinars are required for an overa statement from one of the parents to be paid to the notaries in order for the child to go abroad. This time I publicly apologize to Mr. Nikola Selakovic for having to pay 300 dinars for such a certificate. One page costs two points. The point is on the notary tariff of 150 dinars and that costs 300 dinars. If you want to draw up a document at the notary, you will pay extra for this service. What is paid for the overing of the signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts is paid tax and this tax has been applied both to the notaries and to the municipal administration and to the local office in any village and to the primary court. It's a republican administrative tax, but if you go into the notary office and you say – please draw up my car authorisation, confirm some document that I don't know how to put together because I am written or not written enough, it will charge you for it. What else? He'll charge for it, because he lives on it. In order not to be exclusive when drawing up a real estate contract, here in the Assembly we have decided to reduce 40% of that tariff to notaries and to allow lawyers and the parties themselves to put together that contract themselves or to go to their friend's lawyer and put it together. Of what the notaries earn, it is also one of Mr Nikola Selakovic's ideas and this Republic government, 30% are obliged to pay in the republican budget, and this goes for the development of justice, prosecutors, basic, senior courts. You didn't like that. That's what's bothering you. Based on the money that went into the Republic of Serbia's judiciary budget, lawyers in the Republic of Serbia have now been paid for all the expenses they had as lawyers defending under official duty, all the witches, all the jurors who were not paid in your time, who were running from the courts not wanting to sit there as icabans and not to be paid for it. I'll just say this one more time. You give as many amendments as possible, as many amendments as possible, as many of these reasons, because that's all in reverse proportion. The more amendments you make, the less votes you get. You have one situation in Vojvodina. Bojan Pajtic is ruling, with what, Mr Martinovic, 6% of the vote... (Alexander Martinovic, from town: 5.86%. You have an even better situation. In Vranje, Democrats are in power with 4% of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23101	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Miss Batic, you want a word, but you can't as authorized by this amendment, but you can only time the parliamentary group or the time of the head of the parliamentary group as deputy head of the parliamentary group, but then you have to wait until they get the word first for those who called before you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try on behalf of the JS parliamentary group to return the discussion to the agenda point, and the item of the agenda is the amendment of a member of the Law on the approval of signatures, transcriptions and manuscripts. In a later discussion, I ask you to accept the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, which has brought together several good amendments to several MPs and has been accepted by the legislators of this law, all in order to help citizens of the Republic of Serbia get to what they want more easily, painlessly and faster, and that is that some document, some transcripts, may be able to verify with the body where they have done so so far. Here, by some distinguished colleagues and colleagues, are full of mouths to worry about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would ask that Serbia's citizens take this care to the field, where they have power in local self-government, not here in various replicas, some proposals, discussions, etc., and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not benefit from it. At the same time, I heard one thing here, to say a surprise by some MPs, what are the tariffs of the notaries and who prescribed them. The notaries now have the Chamber, and if their Chamber estimates that some of their tariffs are too high and that they reject users of their services when they come to them, they can ask for those tariffs to be corrected, but at the same time I haven't heard from some midwives to ask, to say what are the tariffs of some professions, or lawyers who go out on official duty, to defend clients, who prescribed those tariffs and the Ministry had to approve them? They were not prescribed by the Ministry, but prescribed by the Chamber. You know very well how big they are. So when he's so concerned about citizens when it comes to one profession, he needs to take care of the citizens and when it comes to another profession, because citizens, on one basis or another, come either to a public notary or to a lawyer. Okay, that's a question for some discussion. In 2011, Unique Serbia then supported the law, amendments to the Notary Act. Let me speak to the dictionaries of the people, the child is born, we have to rock, let him live well, and therefore by amending the laws we are just creating conditions for that child, or for that child to live to the best possible extent, that the citizens have no harm from him. For this very reason, it is also a pandemic to this law that we are today changing one provision of this bill on the authority of signature, transcription and manuscripts, so that it begins to apply, that is, this provision from 1 March 2017. As far as the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group is concerned, in the next period that we are looking for, whether we will have support from most of the MPs in the National Assembly, we will see that what we are changing remains permanent and that it is possible that both in local communities and in some other bodies local self-governments continue to carry out the aboves of certain documents, precisely for the benefit of these citizens, not to cross 30 and I don't know how many miles from where they live, from their village, to verify something that they once, or two, or three times in their lives need, or in a year. So let's conclude that this law is passed and we don't talk as much as it costs this meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens will assess in the 2018 elections whether we did well or not, will vote for other policy options that care so much about them, and as for what they pay and whether the Ministry will pay for these services in public notebooks like this, I'm just asking some respected colleagues from some other professions, will those who are engaged in this private profession charge for the treatment of 50 dinars one hospital day, what is it cost in hospitals financed by the Health Protection Fund today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23103	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23104	Thank you. I use the time of the parliamentary group to support the amendment submitted by fellow MPs Marko Djurisic, Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanovic, Slobodan Homen and Blagoja Bradic. Supporting this amendment with a proposal to learn from all surfaces, ignorances and violations and abuses of procedures during the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, at least some lesson, to avoid at least some mistakes in the future. What's this about? The amendments that the colleagues have made are good and I will vote for it regardless of whether or not they will have an amendment majority. The problem is that this amendment is now in the process and must be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to a member of the law that no longer exists. On Monday, we had an authorised representative of six MPs who explained two members of the law. One of these is not a decision to amend the Justice Committee. Why am I saying that we need to think about this, to avoid for absolutely unnecessary reasons a surface which is the main feature of the adoption of this law? What happens if this amendment, a fellow MP from the Social Democratic Party, gets an amendment majority? What's the law like? What does a member of the law look like? This is not only in this case a procedural business issue which has not been clearly resolved in our Rules of Procedure, but an illustration of the arrogance which we discussed on Monday about a law that no longer exists and is not the first time. This has already happened during the session and passing of the law by emergency procedure. Desiring that this procedure does not exist, I use my exposure as a warning, to keep an eye on or amend the Rules of Procedure, or a more thorough approach to making legislative proposals that we, as MPs, make in the National Assembly, because the amendment should be, and they should be, and there has been no law that has entered into the National Assembly and came out in exactly the same form. Each one has been changed by amendments, but this is an extreme case. On Monday, there were eleven laws, on Wednesday he no longer exists, and we are discussing amendments to a member of the law that no longer exists. All attempts to talk about other topics, to cover a serious procedural deficit with political unrest of political folklore, is probably very convenient for all those who address people who want support because they keep talking, but it is not done if you respect an institution in which we are all obliged to do committed, approachable to the knowledge and respect of culture of the procedure that we are required to do. The amendments that colleagues have made are in a few similar amendments submitted by the board, but the debate in the tide is not like what really happened with the regulation. It can only be common damage and it is my appeal to take this for a lesson and avoid such common damage in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23105	I would like to thank you for saying that the People's MP, Olga Batic, has. Here you go, Miss Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23106	Thank you. I wanted at least for a moment to react to something that was said and it represents one absolute untruth, and I don't mean the exposure of my colleague Bradic or my colleague Komic, so here at the very beginning everything is brought down to some personal level, as if at the very least I'm the only one who is the signator of this law. I said, I'll take all the blame on myself and all the criticism, but absolutely let them go at me. I'm ready, of course, to bear them, but there's an awful lie being said, one of my colleagues said at the very beginning – we're using this, I'm going to use the term that he used – the money that came out of the pockets of public notaries. This is what a colleague said at the beginning of the debate – we broke out the money notaries from his pocket. I'm sorry, if we're going to perceive things like that, then we're going to say that breaking out of the notaries, these same pairs out of our pockets, is largely done by those amendments and additions to the Law on Public Records, which are actually the result of an agreement between lawyers or professional teams of the Serbian Bar and the RES. Remember, then, how reduced are the types of jobs that are actually done by public notebooks, so let's not pay any respects here and talk about some things, that we're getting some money out of somebody's pocket. The changes and additions that we discussed earlier and agreed with have already been done. Who then was against the solution, primarily the solutions proposed by the profession, so the lawyer, then in the principle debate he should have pointed out, to protect only the absolute interests of the notaries? I respect that tendency that someone must advocate notaries, especially those who have introduced this institute into this country's legal system. But don't put your claims down here that there's money coming out of the pockets of public notebooks. It's absolutely unacceptable, absolutely inappropriate, so the dictionary itself is absolutely inappropriate and I'm deliberately using it, because whoever was carrying it, I'm just quoting what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23107	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23108	I thank the chairman. In view of the course of the discussion, as well as the content of the discussions that have been conducted, one conclusion is imposed, which should be avoided, in order to avoid going a very bad message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is that one otter is created and is extremely negative towards public notebooks on the one hand, as it has recently been an odysm completely negative to lawyers, on the other hand, so in the political jargon and political speeches, one and the other professions are being misused. They comment, first of all, on the tariffs of the public notebook and the lawyers in an inadmissible way. In a concrete situation, what is true should be said, and since the parliamentary group of the SPS has been insisting from the very beginning only on the facts regarding the discussions on the laws that are related to this law that we are discussing today, and on the laws on public notebooks and other accompanying laws, then that fact is something that cannot be questioned, which is that it is right here in front of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia when we first talked about the ratio of public notebooks and their tariffs being told by the Executive Authority that these tariffs will be adapted to the financial opportunities of citizens. And yet for the sake of fact and again for the sake of truth, it should be pointed out that the adjustments were made in the meantime, that these tariffs were reduced. We just asked the question – is even though the corrections made the final amount of public notebook tariffs adequate to the opportunities and financial opportunities of the citizens, and this is the distinguished colleague Batic at the very beginning of her opening presentation clearly and unequivocally pointed out. Therefore, there is no need to lamentate and collect political points on something completely unnecessary. We here need to be fully agreeable in one fact, and that fact implies that this law avoids discrimination against citizens, avoids what means the burden of citizens, or the burden on citizens, is excessively financial, and that burden would undoubtedly exist if this law was not passed and voted. Some of my esteemed colleagues have been said here which, however legally-formally, cannot be accepted, which is sustainability or continuity in terms of charging fees or better to say taxis when it comes to the authority of local self-government. Gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have the Law on Republic Taxes, and that law is still in force, and by that law, taxes and charges are charged, and there is no need for anyone to discuss it, as there is no need for anyone to discuss the tariffs of lawyers, whether or not they have signed them, because the Serbian Attorney's Chamber has accepted that the tariff of lawyers should be set in place and that, at the same time, when a correction of the notary tariff is done and a correction of the tariff relating to lawyers would not be misused when it comes to lawyers and lawyers. In the end, we should also take care of the fact that the SPS parliamentary group has pointed out very precisely. This law is next to the goal that has been declared, and here it is lamented with it, which is the protection of citizens' interests, it speaks for another purpose, which is the protection of the RS budget. And the budget is protected precisely by courts, judicial units, units of local self-government tolling on those fees in the name of the fees to be poured into the budget. That is what citizens should know and that is what is the fact that no one is here, nor can raise doubt, and fellow Bradiq will now be on behalf of us, lawyers, this time, for the first time – a lawyer, before I tell the MPs, thank you because he recognized that this is indeed an honest, good intention, an attempt to react in a safe and responsible manner to a legal act that must be amended truly and sincerely in the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23109	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has Dr. Blagoja Bradić after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23110	I don't have the right to a replica? Oh, no? I don't mean Mr. Ned's exposure, I mean Mr. Peter's exposure...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23111	That was affirmative, his exposure. No one mentioned you negatively or mentioned your name or name.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23112	Okay, you didn't understand. Can I just because I have two minutes to... Thank you. So, respected citizens of Serbia, over the past two hours we have listened to different visions of the solution and the quality assessment of our amendment, which we have submitted to the draft law of a group of MPs, and to remind you, we have proposed that the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts be certified by the public notary or the authority of the municipal administration, meaning that it is not a time-limited process, and then we have given the possibility that what the Justice Committee will propose by 1 March 2017, will be certified by 1 January 2016, because we wanted to limit the possibility of courts to overwrite signatures, transcripts and manuscripts, in order to have more time to deal with this fundamental activity. I hope that in the next period we will see very clearly and quickly, beyond all these discussions, criticism, thinking, messages sent by fellow members of the congregation, from the congregation position, see who is right. We just wanted to warn any new sessions and I didn't when I said that sessions cost, they really cost, every session, this is some work, we spend electricity, we spend the resources of this assembly in a bad way, but I'm from the context as I said it was unnecessary this session today when it could have been done a week ago, this member of the law to put it on. But let me just give my colleague Peter another answer. It doesn't cost anything 50 dinars, it's participation on a hospital day that's incomparably more expensive and yes, private dentists will work on the price list of the Republic Fund. I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23113	Thank you. National MP Petar Petrovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23114	Very short. I'd like to, dear colleague, Doctor, that the next day...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23115	Please don't speak to another MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23116	... The dentists fix my teeth at the same price as the dentists working at state institutions. I'd be happy to bring you an account if that's the case, and I guarantee it won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23118	Right on the line. Thank you. So, let me just point you in the matter a little bit, seeing as you don't handle matter properly. Therefore, private dental practice which has not signed a contract with the Republic Fund has the right to form its own price list and to pay taxes or book-keeping taxes or flat-rate. Those who sign a contract with the Republic Fund, I hope that, very soon, they accept it, the absolute price of the Republic Fund, and it will be the same price as in the home of health and private health, when the possibility of private dentists signing a contract with the Republic Fund is created.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23119	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marijan Rističević after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we spend all day discussing how to split one hair into six pieces, as far as I can see. The simplest two members, i.e. one member and another member on entry into force, this debate has been going on for two days, with no less intensity, which shows an exceptional interest in, as far as I can see, over the signing, copying, etc. I didn't expect so much interest to be and as a representative of the People's Peasants' Party, I was more expected that my colleagues on both sides were pushing to verify these signatures, transcripts, etc. In particular, what I was looking for in agriculture, in the country, we pay considerably less, and I would be free to support those amendments that would say that the rural population is free of all taxis, preza, etc., as we are threatened with the extinction of the village, since it is no longer a agricultural issue, that is also a security issue, it is a question of the survival of Serbia. I would like to make such a kind of amendment that I have proposed in my time, that my colleagues have proposed on both sides, no matter what political options they are from. Instead, we tend to see here a debate about which date should be incorporated into the law, whether 2016 or 2170, etc. I don't see that there's some debate here that's fertile. What I see as citizens condemning, which is what still exists in our country, is that we all have to fight together to make the state our violence against citizens, and I fear that no law that we don't pass will be in favour of the citizens unless we take into account their social endurance, or the economic power that follows this population. I don't share the position and opposition, I think they're both in power. At least I'm in power, say, me. So, those who claim to be an orthodox opposition hold power in a quarter of Serbia's territory and enforce laws. Here, my colleague Bradic, who has now come out, spoke about dental services. So, as far as the RFZO Fund is concerned, it finances all services, including on the territory of Vojvodina, where one party, which has recently held, until 2012, the republican government, holds that power from health insurance on a quarter of the territory. So, when someone says it's the opposition, I take it with the reserve, since most of the trusted affairs and the law on the transfer of jurisdiction, regardless of the republican affairs, is being done by the AP Vojvodina. I'm not against it, but it's their so-called. The opposition action should be taken with the reserve, as should be taken with the reserve and these proposals. I would like these proposals to bring relief to the population, first of all to the village which, I dare say, regardless of the average age of 59, continues to work the most, the most contributes and sustains industrial dead cities, and is extinct. The average age is almost 59 years old, our territories are empty and someone is going to carry out a new aggression in cradles on our empty territories, because the aggression to the cradles is the most successful, and the most successful ethnic cleansing, I will say self-cleaning, is a white plague, so we are subject to both. I would like future amendments and bill proposals to benefit the population, not against the population. I don't see anything fertile in this amendment. My colleague Bradic came out, so I can't remove one illogicality, let's just say that dental services are free of charge for several categories of population, only they're not free for those who pay for health contributions. I thank the amendment's promoters, but I would like for the citizens' sake that these amendments are more fruitful and that we don't waste this much time for, I said in the introduction, dividing one hair into six pieces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23121	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has an authorised promoter, National MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23122	Thank you. According to Article 1 of the amendment, Parliamentarian Katarina Rakic submitted, and she proposed that, in fact, in the text of the Act on Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in Section 2 after saying, "as a trusted job" put an end to the point and then proceeded: "as long as 1 March 2015", simply to provide for a permanent solution and not to set an absolutely no time limit. To be honest, this is the kind of amendment I expected from the opposition's representatives. They called for no deadline and that something should be accepted as a permanent solution. If such an amendment were to be accepted, then we would be in one situation so that, completely, without any meaning, the position of the third of this same member of the law would remain. Article 29 could also be questioned, because, I will point out, if in the original text still valid Article 29 in its position 2 behind the words "confidential work" we put an end to it, it means that absolutely everyone would be in charge of doing all the tasks of verifying signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, and public notebooks, and courts, and municipal administrations. Then the question would actually be – what do we need from the Institute of Public Registration? Then we shouldn't have brought it in. If we're going to be making any criticism here, then let's consult on something and find out something that's indisputable. The Institute of Public Registration was introduced in 2011. As I am honored and transferred to some personal level this debate which today is in the same spirit and started as the debate in principle, then I could say – behold, dear ladies and gentlemen colleagues and colleagues, I apologize, but I did not pass the Law on Public Records. My view is quite the opposite, even now in 2015 there are no conditions for full application, let alone in 2011.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23123	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23124	Let me finish. If we're going to tell the truth at will, for all I blame myself, then I have to tell my dear colleagues that future preparations are coming, and they'll see that in August, I didn't support a whole set of proposed changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23125	Thank you. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the author Olgica Batić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23126	Thank you. As I said before, I have no problem admitting a mistake when a mistake has been made, but it is evident that individuals here absolutely have a problem admitting the mistake they have made, and that mistake has produced a series of consequences that almost cannot be solved. You know, when you pass one bad law, apparently bad, for which conditions are not met at all to apply it, then all you do is remove the shortcomings and deal with the consequences. If we keep dealing with the consequences, then it's my suggestion – let's start with the cause, and then we'll get to the consequences easily. Namely, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed the following amendment. Article 1 The bill is also amended and reads - The Law on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in Articles 29 and 3 are amended and read as follows: "The basic courts, i.e. municipal administrations, as a trusted business, retain jurisdiction for the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts until 1 March 2017. Exceptionally from Article 2(2), in cities and municipalities for which no public notebooks, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are appointed will be certified by the basic courts, judicial units, as well as the reception offices of the basic courts, in accordance with Articles 13(4) and 5. The Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, i.e. municipal administrations as a trusted business after 1 March 2017 and until the appointment of public notebooks. “ Here I will agree with the work that my esteemed colleague Komic said, but one was, of course, an oversight. It had to be done when the change in attitude 2 was carried out and attitude 3 changed. The law. Some MPs have done so with the amendment, as is respected by Mrs Besarevic, who has also been very much discussed, as she predicted. In the very explanation of this amendment, which was tabled by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, it can be seen that the amendment of the Committee is actually consummating amendments to the MPs, namely the opposition MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, who have responded in due time when it comes to the deadline, because the legislators tried to bind themselves, I would say, precisely for the amendment of the aforementioned colleagues of Zivkovic and Pavićevic, to be corrected, in fact, to be linked to the calendar beginning of the year, and on the Committee we found that it was a far more acceptable proposal for distinguished colleagues of Zivkovic and Pavicevic, to be on 1 March 2017. So, with some changes here, what is stated in the reasons for several amendments has been accepted, and above all I am referring to Mr Pavicevic and Mr Zivkovic's amendment, and then to the amendment of the distinguished colleague Vesna Besarevic. Of course, the amendment you've all been able to see, you have before you to read, so I think it's unnecessary to say anything. I really just have to say one sentence. We decide here today between the two options, or we will accept that for some reasonable time what God would not have given up would have occurred if no one had intervened, and I call on all MPs to read the laws, to follow the laws, because they too can propose bill proposals, as well as to respond when they see that a deadline is approaching, and only by performing that deadline can the adverse consequences arise for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let them criticize in the future. You know, now, and when you see a solution from the very good intentions, I'm going to be completely honest and say, a solution that didn't work out with the existing bill, you know, spot that problem, target it, then try to make something right, then that makes fun of it. It is, unfortunately, what we spend most time on, in principle and today in the discussion of details. I don't want to go into any more details here, no more debates. I think we've discussed enough on Monday. It's more than clear why we did this. The one who is against these changes is actually because on March 1st, and that should be said publicly, public notebooks do all the certificates and that on March 1st would, according to the exclusive jurisdiction of public notebooks. But if they advocated such a solution, then they should have said – excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, we are against the agreement reached between the lawyer and the ministry of justice, we want public notation in Serbia, as some colleagues have said - we are withdrawing money from the pockets of public notebooks, so today's debate started, absolutely not true. We have also already said in the debate, this is not doing anything to damage public records, and what I agree with all the criticisms of the opposition is that the public notebooks do not have enough, that the public notation service does not work properly, and I said to my fellow Justice Minister, I support it, unanimously to ask the same question regarding the tariffs of public notebooks. We can do it together. I don't have anything to argue with. I don't just know if he wants to come with me after everything he said, but it doesn't matter. In this regard, when criticizing someone who represents a law here, I have to repeat, I have not passed the Law on Public Records, I did not vote. And when that law was passed and the law was discussed, this is where the money is mentioned. And then the sessions cost, when the Law on Public Registration was passed, just as the session still costs today, so nothing less and nothing more. But let's not do any double arches and comment today, which is absolutely not appropriate for commenting. After all, I just want to point out the third possible solution that the opposition did not propose, I expected at least someone from the opposition to propose, as they pointed out all along that they were for sustainability, that this parallelism was left with regard to validation. I must point out once again, from the point of view of the lawyers, there are many of my distinguished colleagues here, when you change the transitional and final provisions, and you do them for reasons that you are limited and limited by time and you have no time to do, the transitional and final provisions can never change the material provisions, and they would have to be changed in a situation where a solution would be accepted, so let's just keep everyone in charge of the certification, and if they were to caricate things, then let's introduce another fourth body that he and he, so that everyone in the country of Serbia only deal with the confirmation of signatures, manuscripts and prescriptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23127	Thank you. Ms. Batic, there are only nine minutes left, as chief, since this time has been taken from the time of the head of the parliamentary group. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23128	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected legislators, here's an interesting amendment. This amendment is interesting because it has not only changed Article 1 but has changed the whole law because, as is known, the law we discussed on Monday has two members, one of whom has been completely changed, and the other member is – this law comes into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The law we discussed on Monday read, Article 1. - In Article 29, point 2 of the words: “1. in March 2015, they are replaced by the words "1. On 1 January 2017’ and in Article 2. – This law takes effect the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", the end of the law. The law we are discussing today, Article 1. – Basic courts, i.e. municipal administrations, as a trusted business retain jurisdiction to verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts by 1 March 2017. Exceptionally from Article 2(2), in cities and municipalities for which no public notebooks, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts are appointed will be certified by the basic courts, judicial units, as well as the reception offices of the basic courts, in accordance with Articles 13(4) and 5. The Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, i.e. municipal administrations, as a trusted job after 1 March 2017 and until the appointment of public notebooks. Article 2– This law shall enter into force on the following day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". So on Monday, we discussed a law here, and today we're discussing a whole other law. What happens to our amendments that we have submitted to Article 1 of the Law that no longer exists because this amendment of the Committee has become an integral part of the law. What if the Assembly, for example, decides in the voting day to accept some of our amendments submitted by DS MPs, when a member of the law to which we have submitted these amendments no longer exists, why did the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submit a proposal for an amendment that was absolutely contrary to what seven fellow Members of Parliament here suggested just two days ago? Just like the law they proposed to us two days ago, in absolute contrast to the law proposed by Minister Selakovic on 31 August 2014. What do those colleagues who appear every time we have a proposal, either from the government, or from the ruling coalition, who support the bill's proposals that are absolutely against each other and in absolute dissent with each other. counterpart Batic says – we talked a lot Monday. We talked, but we talked about a whole other law. If you in the law of two members, one of whom is a member when the law comes into force, you completely change one member, then it's about another law, not an amendment to a member of a law. Also, it was said here that some amendments were expected from the opposition, so I don't know who is surprised that they were proposed by the ruling coalition. This is the amendment tabled by the Committee, an amendment that could have been expected from the opposition because it essentially changes the concept of the law, is essentially the opposite of what colleagues from the ruling coalition proposed here only two days ago, and on Monday, when we talked about it, nothing suggested that there could have been such a twist and that the Committee would completely amend overnight this law that we are discussing today because it should be fair and say that the law we discussed on Monday and the law we are discussing today is absolutely different, mutually opposed to the law, both in concept and in everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23129	I thank Miss Jerkov. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Olgica Batic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23130	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Namely, this is a discussion in detail. We have not heard anything about the amendment, and I will remind you, it is not at all an amendment to the Justice Committee, it has become an integral part of the bill's proposal, but we are discussing the amendment of counterpart Katarina Rakic. I very much respect Mrs. Komic's opinion, and I heard very well, and therefore there is probably a need to repeat again everything Commissioner Komic said, but I don't think it has anything to do with it, since we heard Comic here, so there is no need to repeat something that has already been said. He says this is about two opposing laws. Perhaps it could be more justified to say – about two solutions that try to amend one member of the law, and we cannot possibly talk about a formulation that reads – we are discussing two opposing laws. There's absolutely no such thing as legal terminology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23131	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23132	Thank you. The amendments to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the Justice and Local Self-Government are currently under review, and it is under review, so that there is no uncertainty about what amendment we are reporting on. I would like to refer the question to the authorised representative on the reasoning of Article 2 of this adopted amendment to the Committee, which is completely changing the concept of the law that the authorised representative defended on Monday. Therefore, once again - exclusively from the position of the 2nd member in cities and municipalities for which no public notebooks have been appointed, manuscripts and transcripts will be certified by the basic courts, judicial units, as well as the reception offices of the basic courts in accordance with the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts, public prosecutors, or municipal administrations as a trusted business after 1 March 2017, and until the appointment of public notebooks. How are you gonna stop me? With a place in the municipality or in the city, where there's a public notebook to do an overture of signatures in another municipality, any job? How are you going to explain that we are citizens because of the place of residence in a different position than those who verify the signature, the record, the transcript, and how long will this be done? I have a very reasoned understanding that, defending my amendment, I will use to share with all of us, but this amendment will make a bigger problem than the fact that there are no notebooks that can do this on 1 March 2015. Except that we citizens are placed in a different position, depending on the place of residence. There are no more messages to the Institute of Public Libraries that we have no dispute over, and a ministry that is competent and competent to carry out their duties within the time limit written in the laws defining public records. This amendment is an extortion for the context in which there is both the Institute of Public Note and the arrogance of the Executive Authority towards public records, and the will not to read absolutely any of the regulations that define the area, and to speak proudly of the ignorance of all and all things in the plenary of the Serbian Parliament, and the problem that people will have by adopting this amendment. Whom I'll complain to if the notebook in my city, one, isn't able to do me a copying, writing, or signature and handwriting service, and I come to the administration, and someone in the administration says - it's not my job, look what the Assembly voted for me. That's what a public notebook in your town does. I say--I know, wait, but, he's because, because she doesn't, because she doesn't. Who's protecting me? Why did we let ourselves do this? Because someone in the executive office doesn't read deadlines in their own laws that they need to apply. Because we have six responsible people in this assembly together with the representative who said, "Give people to save the government we support, because we're the majority of them, and yet we don't make a problem." Because we realized that in such a superficially surfaced Clamperian way, there's still a problem, and because now we're going to be making a bigger problem than we have, if we don't have anyone to verify the signatures. Why am I talking about this? Because this is no longer about the functioning of the state administration, this is about human rights. Human rights to me as someone who needs to use public records services, courts or reception offices in courts or municipal administrations where I live. I don't think we're without responsibility, whether we're proposing a law, whether we're going to defend a government that's messed up and unable to apply its own regulations or criticise it from the point of view of respecting all the rules that I'm going to talk about when I defend my amendment. It is not what I am saying in the expectation that an authorised representative will give me an answer, precise, clear and that it will be a guarantee to people who from Tuesday when this law comes into force will be in a position to have all the municipal public administrations, reception offices and courts by 1 March 2017 only some. This is again, as in the case of my appeal procedure, so we don't allow ourselves this kind of thing anymore. That's why there is a National Assembly College, so there is a dialogue between the heads of the parliamentary groups, so there is work on committees to discuss this, not to look from session to session committees where there are no questions and there are no dialogues on what the consequences will be produced by the actions we bring to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23133	I thank Mrs. Comic. Thank you. The word has been given by the proposed representative, National MP Olgica Batic. Replic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23134	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm gonna make it in two minutes to say everything I wanted to say, but it doesn't matter. I hope we've at least regulated the question of how much time I have as a proposing officer. Namely, a good part of the reason that Col. Komic presented I completely understand because Col. Komic can explain the essence unlike some of her colleagues without anger, who can't do such a thing. When we talk about human rights, yes, if you listened carefully to me in the debate in principle, nothing different, maybe in different words I said exactly what you just said. There are stenographic notes. I was talking about the unequal position of citizens in those cities and in those municipalities where public notebooks were appointed to the territories and I was saying in the context that they were then in an unequal position with those citizens of those cities, those municipalities where public notebooks were not appointed. This imbalance is visible. Vidna, it can't be avoided. I made that very clear in the debate in principle. A good part of what you've just exhibited, even in the context of human rights. Here, look at the stenographic notes, that was the opening address, that I also made, and it's nothing controversial. I said, if I'm going to be on duty here, I accept it myself, I'm just asking a question – excuse me, and what did the other 200 do, and how much if we exempt the authorised proposings, why didn't they read the law? Why didn't they see January 1st fall this week? Are they aware that since Monday this week, everyone has been referred to an exclusive jurisdiction? Yeah, you say it's changing, and Article 3 isn't. I explained that at the beginning of this debate. If you think it's all the same to me just to deal with changes and I don't have better things to do in my life, believe me, it's not like that. So, I agree with all those remarks you made, and I've already pointed that out in the debate in principle. I don't have time to explain everything I want. And why it was necessary to intervene exactly and in attitude three, I already explained that on the board, but of course I first pointed that out here in the tide before it started, to say this passionate debate on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23135	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23136	The amendment applied to that member of the law that no longer exists and changed the time limit given to be said "1. In March 2015, they replace the words "1. January 2016’. In the debate in principle, I cited very briefly why I decided for 2016, because I see this law and deadlines of the signature and the Law on Public Records in direct connection with the Law on Political Parties. Namely, Articles 30. The law on political parties, in its first position, requires a political party that does not have MPs in the Serbian Parliament or the AP Vojvodina to renew its registration every eighth year. The law was published to political parties by the president in the Official Journal on 15 May 2009. In 2017, all those who do not have MPs in these two congregations, one is regional and our national, will have to renew the registration. Currently, there are about 100 parties in Serbia. At present, about 45 parties have MPs and you have 55 who do not. It's 550,000 signatures, it's a physical job. My idea is either to cut the deadline so that we can get the notebooks, in the best sense of the word, to make sure, don't take my word for it, to help the notebooks prepare for this job in 2017, or to see if this job might be possible in this new law foreseen by March 1, 2017, given that it's one of the human rights again. So 550,000 signatures require physical time and people, and 95, 105 or 205 notebooks, they can't or can't just do that, I'm not talking about the price of the signature. A special tone of this is that it is a very serious right to political organisation, a constitutionally guaranteed right, if we don't take account of it, in 2015 we will learn nothing from this example, that no one reads what is the deadline and that no one is careful about what the context is that the deadline should be fulfilled, but that we do on our noses or delaying or erasure of deadlines. I don't have an advanced proposal on how to keep in mind that we don't have a problem with restoring the registration of political parties in 2017. You can change that member of the law. There's time. A single member can be established who will only apply to that job. It can be estimated here that this two-month deadline, as far as municipal administrations can do, will be enough or can be a completely new solution. My appeal is to do so in time, so that we do not endanger other social and political processes that are related to political parties that have to be registered, so that they can deal with, gathered in a political organisation, promoting their ideas, in communication with people and campaigning to get some supporters for their idea. So, in time, we have enough months to solve this problem. That was the only reason I submitted an amendment where one date was changed by another date. I would not like us to sit together in this National Assembly and on 25 February 2017 and extend the deadline for the signing order, extend them to all municipal administrations and courts, just because we do not want to deal with the issue of applying one law until the deadlines when we make decisions in the extortion. The solutions that are made in extortion are poor, and we need to provide ourselves with space and for sufficient dialogue, for a thorough enough explanation, what consequences the product of solutions we propose in any law, and so on in this law regarding overtures of manuscripts, writings and signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23137	The word has an authorised promoter, Olgica Batić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23138	I understand the essence of the amendment, Col. Comic, which I have to notice is that it always discusses very well. Of course, when you mention that public notebooks need to be prepared within that time limit, I agree with that, and I have nothing more to add. Of course, that's why the deadline is scheduled. But you can't force anyone if someone doesn't want to be a public notary at all, to become one. That's the essence of this problem. It has already been said countless times that public records don't work properly. There's not enough public records. How will the dynamics of the appointment of public notebooks continue? I think you're in agreement, and neither you nor I can predict it, because we're not psychic, we don't know. I may be eligible to be a public notary, but I don't want to be involved in public records, and no one can force me, nor can I force anyone who also meets the conditions that they can handle public records, and to be honest, that's my view, after the conflict, or the strike of a lawyer, I think it's less and less interesting that someone is even engaged in the appointment of public notebooks. On the other hand, when you mention the registration of political parties and I, I must admit, mentioned it in the debate, in principle. I've mentioned both republican and local elections and everything that can cause problems, so I've said it all and I can't respect you now, because we have a full opinion on this matter. When you said we should respond in time to a deadline that still has time, which is about restoring the political party's registration, here I am calling you, I may want to react with you. On the other hand, why didn't there be, why didn't someone from the opposition come and say, "Here you see, we have a better solution, on March 1st, everything goes to the jurisdiction of public notebooks, so maybe it would be easier for me and the other officials to tell us and approach us, here's what's wrong with Monday, the month, it's going to come to ruin in the country of Serbia, but that's what you said, joint work, but for some reason, this joint work is lagging behind. I think that all of what you said, and I brought it up in principle debate and all the problems that exist, I put out in principle debate, and this deadline, you're absolutely right when you say that public notebooks are being prepared. You know, if someone is going to become a public notary, we can't influence either of you or me, and if that number is ever going to be set up in number 371, no one can predict that. That's how much I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23139	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was willing to support a colleague who proposed the amendment and who explained it for political re-registration parties. As far as I know, the re-registration is not in 2017 but in 2018 and I think that the parties were re-registered in January and February and that in 2018 those parties that were not parliamentary in the previous eight years were re-registered at the republical level. So, it won't work 101 political organisations, it won't collect signatures, since I follow the work of political parties I think over 25 political parties have ensured parliamentaryity at the province and republican level. I believe that the parties who did not meet that condition will be around 75 and that the re-registration will take place in 2018 for full precision, regardless of what was done at the end of 2009 and in early 2010, when all political parties were re-registered, I was not an MP and I was not in this assembly of parliament. I think it's a good idea. As far as I'm concerned, I advocate that political parties that have provided parliamentaryity don't even collect signatures at all, since it's not just about re-registration of political parties and I'm willing to support a part of the amendment, because it will collect signatures for regular elections that will be local, rural, 2016. I believe that when these province elections occur, that we will not have one government in the shade, but that we will have two governments in the shadows, one will be the republican government in the shadows, and the other will be from 206th year, since May, and the other will be the province government in the shadows and will be party to the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23141	National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished promoters, I have submitted an amendment that I have proposed to say "1. In March 2015, they replace the words ‘20. May 2016’. I think you'll understand, which is a little bit unclear to me now, what is happening to this amendment, given that there are no words in the law anymore – 1 March 2015, but regardless, I will try to explain why I proposed such an amendment and not just me, but several of my colleagues from the DS. In fact, it seemed to me that this 20th of May 2016, as well as any of the random dates proposed by the government, or certain MPs proposed on behalf of the ruling coalition, and this assembly adopted. I'll remind you that Mr. Selakovic here convinced us only a few months ago that it was the right date on March 1, 2015. The day before yesterday, our colleagues here convinced us that 1 January 2017 was the right date. Now we see that it is no longer that date but that it has moved again for certain municipalities to March, for certain municipalities until the appointment of notebooks, for certain municipalities it will be parallel. So, it just seemed to us that since it's obviously a practice to be here without any meaning, without any calculations and without any estimates, dates suggest that we, too, each of us, can propose some date that has seemed appropriate to us. In that direction goes not only my amendment, but also the amendments of the other colleagues. Since the words I propose to replace are no longer in the law, because this morning a second law was laid down against that law that was on Monday and the words were "1. March 2015 “ From the bill, it completely disappeared, because the promoter himself gave up on them, I don’t expect any answer, which is why the amendment is not accepted, but I think it only determines in our view that all the dates and all the changes that were made in this whole painful process, in which we have changed eight times the legal regulations relating to public notebooks and their powers, are absolutely superficial, unprofessional, arbitraryly prepared and proposed to this assembly, without any analysis, without any preparation and without any intention to implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23143	Thank you. The word has been given by the proposed representative, National MP Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23144	Thank you. When the applicant of the amendment himself says that he does not expect an absolutely no answer why the amendment is rejected, so before, we have been relieved of work, we do not have to give any answer, probably, but the answer I have proposed is the amendment and I received, as he looked at it that the amendment Committee accepted the date that the opposition colleagues were, and I think that the team before, its satisfaction should be greater, accepted, which is 1 March 2017, which was proposed by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. If I'm not mistaken, their amendment, it seems to me that he was first filed, on this bill, at least I won that amendment at my MP's club first. People intervened, explained why they needed to. You know, you're putting up with the amendment with a goal, not just to stand it, so you say there's no solution that existed, imagine, from the principle of discussion. Therefore, there is a debate in particular, an amendment is submitted, and in particular you are discussing whether something is good or not. There is also a Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government, and there he can bring, behold, the Rules of Procedure allow him both to submit amendments to the Committee on Justice and State Administration and local self-government. It's said there's no solution to Monday's bill now. Yes, there is no solution. The amendment was adopted by colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic, which stands in the way of the amendments, and I don't see what's controversial? It is now respected when something completely justified is adopted by colleagues who come from the opposition order, and you should, I suppose, be more pleased that the date given by Mr Pavicevic and Zivkovic was accepted, not the one I gave. It's kind of more natural, if nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23145	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Jerkov, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23146	It's simply that I have commented that the words whose replacement I propose in my amendment no longer exist in the bill, it's simply something that I don't think you can dispute. If I propose, by my amendment, to say "1. In March 2015, they replace the words ‘20. May 2016" and I agree to say "1. In March 2015" no longer exists in the draft law because the Committee has proposed an amendment that has become an integral part of the law, I believe in this direction that there are no arguments that you can give me which is why my amendment is not adopted because simply the member I submitted the amendment no longer exists. Whether I'm happy about it or not, that's another thing. I am very dissatisfied that the adoption of this amendment this morning has also shown that the proposal of this law has gone equally superficially, inaccurately and without any serious analysis of the whole business in the previous three years, which is happening in relation to public notebooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23147	The word is Olga Batic. I'll give you a word from the group, there's no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23148	Thank you. As for the amendments to the distinguished colleague, the amendment submitted the amendment to the amendment to the Amendment Act on Amendments and Supplements, then said in the law on the certification of signatures, not in the Proposal for a Law on Signing, in Article 2(2), the words "1. on March 2015, the words ‘20. May 2016’. The current law, not the draft law, states "1. March 2015’. The proposal, which has been approved by the proposings together with me, was submitted on 1 January 2018. I don't know if you were present at the very beginning of this debate, it doesn't matter, I said, yes, we made a slip. It wasn't supposed to be January 1st, we blindly held that date to be tied to the calendar beginning of the year and then we said, "No, it won't be January 1, 2017 and that's what the words "1 are supposed to be. 1 January 2017, not 1 January 2017. March 2015’. The reminders are, for example, for this law on the certification of manuscripts, transcripts and signatures, I didn't even vote for him in August of the month, for example, just so he knows, because at some personal level, the criticisms are referred to. So what was well written by colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic was respected. Whether this bill has only been amended by one member or has been amended by two members, some amendments have been tabled. I don't know now whether we should discuss amendments or not to discuss amendments. If an amendment is as meaningful as the solution proposed by counterpart Pavicevic, then I think that such a solution that is good and that we have agreed that it is perfectly appropriate, should be implemented simply, the amendment response should be implemented. In our opinion, this was done in the best way by colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic. So the mistake was admitted, we're not running away from it. The error correction was carried out by colleagues Zivkovic and Pavicevic just mentioned. They said, "No, you can't change, you can't move the deadline in a year and nine months." Change it then, if you change it to two years, so that the citizens of Serbia have two years and that's accepted. Once again, it is merely an intention to read about each fine amendment in detail, read, and accept the most complete and meaningful solution. I repeat, in addition to this, on the Committee on Justice, everyone was in favour of the fact that Mr Pavicevic's solution as an opposition MP was put in place, and this is actually showing a broad range of ruling MPs, because we are accepting the opposition MP's solution. I don't know why I have the impression for some reason that it doesn't suit you either because the solution proposed by counterpart Pavicevic was accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23149	Thank you. We had an intervention. So, I will appreciate, although I think Vice-President Gordana Comic is wrong, but it is good to say as precedent then for all future drafts of the law, only two minutes after the amendment, you cannot be empowered and MP by it. I think that's a different interpretation, but we'll appreciate that we can do that for all the other draft laws that MPs are proposing. They knew, Gordana Komic's intervention is being adopted so that it would be for future reference to any bill proposed by MPs, and they were authorized. So when someone else makes a bill, please, we'll follow this rule. Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable National Assembly President Mrs Gojkovic, the MP Mrs Olgica Batic, I said so here and in our principle debate, noticed that on 1 March of this year, the deadline until which the signatures, manuscripts and transcripts can be confirmed by the basic courts, i.e. municipal administrations, and since we have significant obstacles to the entry into force of this deadline, then one national MP, by my court, responded appropriately and proposed to amend the Law on the Authentication of Signature, manuscripts and transcripts, which is now foreseen that what was valid for 1 March of this year, is starting to apply from 1 January 2017. I also said in the principle debate here that the government has defined these deadlines, that it is not possible to meet these deadlines, and then what happened, gentlemen? People's MPs who cannot allow our state to enter a field of illegality, respected gentlemen, and inability to allow what it says in the laws to be realized. Reflecting on this, I concluded that this was a small victory of the assembly, MPs in relation to the executive authorities, then I thought further about this deadline that was defined here, which was discussed here by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have proposed an amendment to Article 1 which foresees that this deadline, which is related to the amendment on 1 January 2017, should be replaced by a deadline of 1 March 2017, with one note. The two of us, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, share the view that even after 1 March 2017, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts should be certified by both public notebooks and basic courts, or municipal administrations. This is our position, but we intervened here in an amendment compared to a concrete amendment, where we felt that today and two days ago, it was also an appropriate amendment on 1 March 2017. We will now have two years to think about whether to ensure this parallelism even after 1 March 2017. I can announce this debate here on this amendment right now and tie it to the two strong arguments we offer. One argument is competitiveness. Why don't the citizens get a chance to verify their documents here and there, where they're more handsome? The second thing, gentlemen, seems to us to better protect the interest of the citizens, but the debate must be waiting for us by March 1st, now, as far as I can tell, 2017. Then what happened, dear gentlemen? The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has prepared its proposal, which says in two positions next. The first position says: "The basic courts, i.e. municipal administrations as a trusted job, retain the authority to verify signatures, manuscripts and transcripts by 1 March 2017," which is now spoken of by the MP, Mrs Batić, which I conclude, the gentlemen, is that our amendment, which is also said here, and accepted, and then, honored gentlemen, by reading this second position, where it is said that in cities and municipalities that are not appointed public notebooks, signatures, manuscripts and transcripts will be certified by the basic courts, judicial units, as well as the reception offices of the basic courts after 1 March 2017, and until the appointment of public notebooks. Dear gentlemen, in this change, I notice something that may be on the trail of this idea of ours that we will discuss the fact that after 1 March 2017, this parallelism is also being provided, because it is now being provided, however, only on the condition that there are no public notebooks, but this period of two years now gives us the opportunity to maybe hold one debate in our Great Hall of the National Assembly to do so. I must say, gentlemen, what is my conclusion on this amendment? So I have concluded that our amendment has been accepted and that would now be the 31st amendment of the New Party MPs, which has been accepted. Of course, for one MP dedicated to his legislative work, the adoption of an amendment is a big deal, gentlemen. It's a small victory. Dear gentlemen and ladies of the People's Parliament and MPs, I think this is a special victory. This is a victory not only of the opposition, gentlemen. This is a victory, first of all, the Parliament of Government, which, for several months, differed from one change to another, has constantly directed us towards mistakes, gentlemen. Then what happened? It happened that the zealous MPs remembered one thing, reacted and we are now discussing it, and I think that we can declare one victory, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, all of the freely elected representatives of the citizens of Serbia in this Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who, the respected presidents of the National Assembly, are constantly fighting for what the ideals of every MP in the legislative body are, which are ideals of constitutionality, legality and, respected presidents of the National Assembly and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the rule of law. Since it's for me in the circumstances that we have in this political order as it is now, a big event, a big deal, I have to say here, bravo, MPs. Bravo for the National Assembly, which on a point in the agenda and a bill has united itself in opposing the Serbian government, which has persistently and consistently sinned backwards several months on this issue, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament and respected presidents of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23151	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23152	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will thank my esteemed colleague Pavicevic who, as so far, always makes meaningful and constructive proposals. As a representative of the motion, I shall state something the public should also know, and what is in the amendment of the Justice Committee itself, the State Administration and local self-government, and the sentence reads: the extension of the time limit for retaining jurisdiction is proposed by the amendment as a whole, which is the proposed proposal contained in the amendment submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic to Article 1. Since, without any vanity, a respected colleague, Pavicevic, is able to commend the National Assembly and MPs, then I must note that, if the MPs who are also signatories were first acting, then, secondly, he was always a constructive colleague of Pavicevic, and he drew attention to the deadline that should be read on 1 March 2017, which, without any vanity, was accepted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Once again on my side, and I see that means, I always look forward to the adoption of the opposition amendment. You tend to join those MPs with the largest number of amendments entered, and when you talk about today being the victory of the National Assembly, it's nice to hear it. This defends itself in some way and, to put it that way, raises the integrity of this very representative home. As I have already said in principle in the debate why it should be accepted, precisely because we are representatives of the people and as such we are first invited to protect the interests of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23153	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23154	Thank you. It's good to accept this, but now we're listening to someone beat, we just don't know what and why the government was wrong, how someone in the explanation of the amendments brought us here. You know, the fundamental mistake was, we were saying that, and in the principle debate, I was brought in that way by law. I'm not sure and this deadline is going to be respected, we need to be completely honest, because you've put the state in a lot of trouble by bringing in the far-unprepared Public Records Act and the question is, how many more years will it have to be possible to extend the deadline to really bring that institute into our system. What Mr. Risticevic pointed out here, the famous thought of Valtazar Bogisic - which the coat of arms is born, time does not correct. You gave birth to this coat of arms. That's why we're paying for this today. This government didn't make a mistake, you brought chaos into the judiciary. That's why we're forced to do things like this today. It's not nice for anyone to have to extend the deadline. And here I am now telling you, I am convinced that this deadline will be extended, and it is good that you have noticed and this is not any victory of the Assembly, this is simply something where you have to go out to meet the citizens, because you have passed a law completely unprepared for the introduction of this institute and you have introduced it back-to-back to no one, for nothing, nor, unfortunately, and unfortunately, the consequences of such a catastrophic thinking we endure today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23155	Thank you. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was tabled by MP Jovana Jovanovic. The word has been made by the MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23156	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members, I have proposed that the Act on the Authentication of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts in Article 29, paragraph 2: "1. in March 2015, replaced by the words “1. in point (a), point (b) is replaced by the following: Here, from some of our previous colleagues, we've heard that this deadline is likely to continue to extend, so why don't we make it easier now? Why April 1st? Well, because on April 1st, you can say April, no, we'll give you another deadline. Why 2018? Because I really need to express my suspicion that this deadline that you proposed on 1 March 2017 will also be respected. Why? Because six months ago, the minister assured us that on March 1, 2015, the real deadline in which the notebooks will fully take over the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, and we five days before that 1st of March 2015, we see that this is not the case. All I'm asking is why are you, again, claiming that this deadline will be fulfilled? Where are the guarantees that the minister will not arrive on February 23, 2017 and propose some new and more realistic deadline than you have now proposed? You asked, and why did we not follow the opposition's analysis of the application of this law, and why didn't we propose to amend it before? I can only draw two conclusions from this question. The first conclusion is that it was obvious that Minister Selakovic did not follow how the application of this law works in practice, as soon as he is not one of the proposings today. The second conclusion is that the minister, as well as when this law was passed, did not want to hear the opinion of the profession and now does not want to hear the opposition's legitimate criticisms and obviously does not want to accept responsibility. My question is, are you sure that citizens, since these changes are being made in tea, March 1st, or tomorrow, will know where they can carry out the certificates and that there will be no suffocation with the notaries, because together, as we have today and in principle established, 94 notes are not enough to do this job? Are you sure and whether, if the minister did not want to, you want to accept that one mistake has been made and whether you want to admit that citizens will suffer for politics this time too - in October, too, in November, it will be in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23157	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23158	Thank you. I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. I'm not sure she understood the questions they probably wrote to her, but I'll try to take some turns. You say, "Where are the guarantees?" If you attended a debate Monday, then you could see that no one gave you guarantees, especially those who signed this bill. On the other hand, anything you have to ask Minister Selakovic, you ask him. Don't ask me either, don't ask Nedja Jovanovic, don't ask Dragan Nikolic and other authorised promoters. It is added: ‘what’. I don't know, maybe you could write something on your Twitter account. You keep saying, you're asking questions. The Institute of Parliamentary Affairs is not today. He's usually on Tuesdays and Thursdays. For all the questions you have, the answers should not be heard from me either, because all the questions are addressed to Minister Selakovic, and I am not sure that I look exactly like Nikola Selakovic. All of what you've stated absolutely makes no sense at all. At the very least, it is a disrespect for the authorised proposings, and I will remind you that all the authorised legislators of this law come from the law. I think you should know so much if you've at least looked at who the signatories are. On the other hand, I have to note that this 1 April 2018 would absolutely fit into a date that I already discussed in principle and spoke about, and that is, be careful, to hold local and republican elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23159	Thank you. Time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23160	Let me explain to my colleague Batic. I didn't ask you a question, because you're completely irrelevant to this, because all of you who signed this bill, you're the one who led that member of the law to change you through the board. You mentioned the MPs' institute, it's Tuesdays and Thursdays. Unfortunately, we don't have a chance to ask parliamentary questions on Tuesdays and Thursdays, because sessions, miracles, have been held for all days lately except Tuesdays and Thursdays, especially on the last Thursday of the month, so we have to use every opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23161	Thank you. (Olgica Batić, from town: Replica. There's no replica. (Olgica Batic, from the place: How is there no?) ) There is simply no, MP Batić. She didn't speak to you, she spoke to the President of Parliament. Last week's session was Tuesdays and Thursdays. You're not always here, so I need to draw attention to the MPs to come on Tuesdays and Thursdays, not just on Mondays and Wednesdays. There's no basis for the replica. (Olgica Batić, from the place: I was misread. I'm sorry, indeed, MP Batic. Please, we have the same criteria for everyone. I can't give a replica when there's no replica. She answered to you. We're not going in circles with each other's answers. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The promoter is not here. The MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23162	Thank you. In an attempt to calm down my passions a little bit and somehow bring this debate down to some professional debate and content, I must only say at the beginning to the author that it is for every praise, of course, that you noticed that some deadlines that are previously too ambitious, people would say – ambitious without ammunition, therefore, without real opportunity for which, at the time of the proposal and adoption of the previous deadline, they knew they would not be respected. You did react by submitting this bill. The only thing I don't think is correct for a fellow MP to say is that someone wrote her a speech, because the same thing, on the same note sent to you on Monday, that someone wrote to you from the ministry a proposal for this law, you reacted quite badly, with the right. So, please, no matter how many years, professional preparation and the rest of the people's MPs, we still don't have that kind of discussion. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, my proposal was, not now, given the amendment of the Committee on Justice, not much point in setting a date for 1 January 2020 instead of 1 March 2015. It really seems to me that there is no clear vision of what the notebooks should do in Serbia, what the courts should do. I think this arbitrary ceasefire moment here, an hour there, leads to a serious legal uncertainty in Serbia. We haven't heard, I don't expect from you, because there's no guilt...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23163	Time. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23164	Can I come from the MP's group? (President: No, the MP's group has wasted time, but finish the sentence, so it doesn't turn out that I interrupted you in half. You interrupted me, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23165	So, there goes the thought. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23166	Thank you. It is always a pleasure to discuss with my esteemed colleague, Vesna Martinovic, whose opinion I highly respect. After all, we're lawyers and we both know what it means to represent interest, so I fully justify that you represent the interests of your younger colleague. You're welcome, but it's rude and rude when you say it – I wasn't even asking you a question, you're irrelevant, then you shouldn't even ask. We'll see the steno notes, and you'll read something like that. Please don't throw away, if I can finish my word to the end. Besides, the amendment you submitted, I agree? No one guarantees it will be. I don't know that. You can't know either. No one can know what kind of dynamic the appointment of public notebooks will be. When did the law come? In 2011 I don't know why he was brought in, whether they were examined, whether there were any effects analyses, what does he have to bring in at all? Does Serbia even need public records? It could prove we don't need public records at all. It may become a meaningful amendment that has been withdrawn, that there will be conditions 2117, but I cannot give you here, nor ask me for guarantees. Besides, as you've noticed, I'm not the address you should point to. I didn't vote for all the August laws. I didn't bring the Law of Registration in 2011. These are, again, the consequences of what we do, and this is because of the 2011 Registration Act. That's the cause. It was then that the Institute of Public Registration was established. I know the truth hurts, but you have to listen to it all the way, that's how it is and that's it. I agree with you. An extorted solution, he says -- we're putting out the fire, so let's at least temporarily put it out, if we can't shut it down, or, in your opinion, it should bulge until all of Serbia burns down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23167	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23168	Madam President, the Rules of Procedure, members 104, 106 and 107, were violated in the address of Mrs Martinovic, a colleague of Martinovic. I can understand when she spoke directly to her colleague Batić because her colleague Batić is an authorised proposing representative, but I can't understand the way she talks and the way she behaves or what anyone can do, and what she can't use and what expressions she can use, how to address her colleague. Let us once break the practice of double arches, let us once not look at just one eye, let us once stop listening to one ear and then, what comes from the bench around you, that it is acceptable to say anything, and that someone is hypersensitistic about what someone on the other hand is going to say. I did not enjoy a moment ago when you did not give your word to Mrs. Olgici Batic, when as someone who is a top lawyer, who is a top lawyer, generationally already confirmed, became irrelevant to some topic. I think it's embarrassing. I think it is unnecessary to use it as an argument and to speak more about who said such a thing than about the legislator of this law, about Mrs. Olga Batic. If we want to respect the Rules of Procedure, if we want to talk about the law, if we want to talk about amendments, let us stick to the agenda and let our younger colleagues be influenced in a way, and perhaps by criticism, that there was no need for colleagues Batić and everything she does and what she knows to appear irrelevant, because it is so simply not.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23169	Thank you. Art. 104, 106 and 107. I didn't give Olgici Batic's word not because I doubt her legal knowledge, I know she's an excellent lawyer, I know it from co-operation, but because it wasn't a basis for replication at that time. Today, all the chairpersons were more freely interpreted by the Rules of Procedure, as regards the address of Olga Batic. (Vesna Martinovic, from the place: I'll just be brief. ) There is no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Ask Mrs. Comic. She often intervenes here at the table when we don't do things in the Rules of Procedure. The replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure is simply not recognized when you wrote the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23170	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be rejected. Therefore, the amendment to Article 1, where it is intended to be said: “1. In March 2015, they replace the words ‘1. On 1 January 2020.’. At one of the last sessions, we commended some MPs that they had finally given up and started writing amendments that were meaningful when it became a mass phenomenon. Today we have a situation where almost all MPs of a former regime serve by writing almost identical amendments in a way that, in my opinion, is playing with the National Assembly. How else do we interpret the fact that one MP of the former regime, the party, wrote an amendment where he predicted they were replaced by the words by 1 January 2020 and one other MP of the same party, the party of the former regime, where he predicted by 1 January 2019, and 8 February 2018, 20 May 2016, until one genius who predicted that the deadline until 20117 is, if I am not mistaken. What's particularly problematic is an explanation. I wouldn't read the argument right now. They're full of people taking care of their mouths. Not to say, Madam Chairman, they're the only ones who don't care about the citizens. So, those whose government had 500 people lost their jobs a day, those for whose power hundreds and hundreds of businesses were destroyed, a complete Serbian economy was destroyed and destroyed. That's why I think they have the least right to call on citizens to take care of themselves. I hope we refuse all these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23171	Only Dejan Nikolic can answer this, so Vesna Martinovic can't get the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23172	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak by amendment, because some MPs do not deserve to be answered. The fact that I am sometimes ashamed of something being said in parliament is nothing compared to what can happen in the Assembly, when citizens become ashamed of this parliament, but about it some other time. So I had one wrong piece of paper in my hand, and that's why I didn't answer my amendment. It's not much different than my colleague Martinovic's amendment. I don't think there's any need for us to talk this way today, especially not with the opposition. In fact, as the MP of the opposition, I say bravo for the MPs who have passed this law. What would have happened if they hadn't passed this law? What would happen? We'd get into an absolute legal mess. I'm not saying you're hiding behind Minister Selakovic. On the contrary, Minister Selakovic is hiding behind the MPs. So he was able to put and write in the law – yes, we do not have the capacity to assess the implementation of such a law and send it to the Assembly that MPs do this job instead of the Ministry of Justice and then that you, as MPs, in agreement with all other MPs, submit one more meaningful law. I submitted that the date "1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. January 2019.’. What are my two very strong arguments? The first is that, in fact, we have four years to introduce this institute of public notebooks, one year, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, three years Minister Selakovic. For four years, we have been introducing a new institute and I am moving that date precisely because of what Miss Batic and we are talking about today, because no one here can provide guarantees that this law, that we will not change it in 2017. Just to warn something like that, I'm giving it four years for one more reason. I've been leaving for four years to develop one competitiveness and a game of competition. The essence of competitiveness, even in this area, is that citizens get a better service at a lower price. They'll have to if we adopt my amendment in 2019. Now he's no longer possible, I'm aware of that, because we've adopted the amendment to the Committee and these amendments are really making sense, because we're changing the law, or we changed the law we passed on Monday. We submitted the amendments to the law on Monday. Today is Wednesday, we have a whole new law, these amendments can't really be adopted. We're giving criticism to the government. Why? One more thing, a strong criticism, this is the 106th law we adopt in an emergency procedure. A hundred-sixth law by emergency procedure. The practice is also, that these laws that go according to emergency procedures don't actually go through the process of public debate. If the law adopted on Sunday night of 2014, which we are changing today, had passed a public debate, then experts, and those notaries who started working the next day, experts from this area would have told you that this could not be implemented by 1 March 2015. We might have suggested another date by then, and we wouldn't have discussed this today. However, we also commend lawyers, who can better observe the application of this law than the lawyers, whom we commend, to the amendments we come to debate the essence and content and that is also commendable, because that is our job. With different arguments, it's the work of the National Assembly. Let us defend our amendments with arguments. These are our arguments. We'll leave four more years for municipalities and courts to collect certain revenues from the certificate, let us have time for four years to implement the process of filling empty places for the notaries, because we entered into the implementation of this law with a third of the required number of notes, with 94, it takes even less, it takes 375. We have no guarantee that it will be implemented by 2017, it is absolutely clear, nor who we blame, but we point out that in the four-year process we can reach effective law enforcement, ensure that municipalities collect certain incomes and allow enough time to fully introduce a new notary institute that we otherwise support, because we supported it in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23173	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23174	Thank you. In the first place, I must say, with respect for my colleague Nikolic, with whom I always have pretty good communication, I think he is intimately and personally agreed to say something that is not suitable for the National Assembly. I can't quote it, but I'm going to try to paraphrase that something has been said, that citizens are looking at shame in the National Assembly. You see, in the National Assembly, we are all MPs. You'll see after, read in the stenographic notes, read the beginning of your presentation yourself, and you'll see everything. We're all MPs here. It is a common shame, then, because MPs of position and opposition are also involved in this debate as they have been in any case. As far as the proposal is concerned, and I will return to the amendment you submitted, you say on January 1, 2019. The fact has already been repeated countless times, the dynamics of the appointment of public notebooks are unknown. But then I'm intimately closer, let's say, to the deadline given by Mrs. Komic, rather than the specific deadline that you gave in your amendment. Because, you know, you're leaving one too long. What kind of message do you send to potential public notebooks? So I have until 2019, slowly, if I've passed a judicial sentence, and I'm fulfilling all the conditions prescribed for a public notebook, I'll see. Then it is more acceptable, in my opinion, to the 2016 deadline, let's say, co-worker Komic. In this way you will force a number of those who have a true desire, and now I don't know what number has a true desire, in general to become public notebooks in the country of Serbia, to react more urgently, to prepare a public exam as soon as possible, to pass the public record exam and to really be appointed. On the other hand, when I was in the debate in principle, and I tried to cover all the questions I knew would be asked, so let's also say the question of local, republican elections...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23175	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23176	Let me just finish my sentence. Then only in that specific situation would such a term be justified, actually a deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23177	Thank you. Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23178	Thank you, Madam President. All the arguments used by the amendment promoter are actually arguments why this amendment should not be accepted. I'll go one at a time. The question has been asked – why is it a parliamentary law? And the amendment promoter and I chose for the first time for MPs in the Eighth Assembly in 2008 and then, I am sure, we read the Rules of Procedure, the Law on the Assembly, long before that constitution, of course, which shows that each MP, individually or a group of MPs, as has now been the case, can be legislators. Otherwise, there would be an argument that the amendment promoter often used either his fellow Members and colleagues from his parliamentary group, that the National Assembly is a flow water heater for everything he uses and for everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia proposes and that there is 208 MPs and MPs who can do nothing but hit "for" or "against", mostly "for". What is the problem when a MP or a group of MPs take the initiative and become a legislator? Is it a living wall in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or a wall living in front of a goalie, in this case Mr. Nikola Selakovic? No, I don't. Misreading democracy, misreading the role of parliament in our society. Not just in our society, in every organised parliamentary democracy. An emergency procedure which means that nothing was wrong, an emergency procedure, you know, in 2008, in 2009, when the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly in which only forms were done and represented in the working group by representatives of all parliamentary groups, where, of course, the SNS opinion was considered as just a moment ago, which was honored by Mrs Batic's epithet of irrelevancy, this Rules of Procedure was made. Mrs Kolundzhija presented it as the biggest democratic step and the largest democratic activity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so why not use one such document, why change it? Why, if it's such a perfect thing and it's great, why don't we just do it? The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly as predicted and assumed that the laws could be proposed by MPs or by a group of MPs, as well as an urgent procedure. Well, the amendments were rushed in 2008, both in 2009 and in 2011 and 2012. Then he was in a hurry, then it was fine by the emergency procedure. Not now, though we respect the same pages of the book that we all have, the book of regulations. Among others, the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Third argument, why not 2019? You know, this congregation majority and this government of the Republic of Serbia are not behind deadlines. We put it on purpose in 2017. On purpose, because this government wants the public record to live in our judicial system. It was easy to say - give 2019, 2020, someone said 2170, who wanted to play with parliament. We don't want anything frozen to leave to future governments. We don't want anything arranged to leave to future governments. The next elections will be 2018, 2019. Who will be the minister, what kind of government it will be, will be decided by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now you're offering a solution to what was your favorite solution at the time you exercised power - be in charge, so someone else will come back. Something to do, but to apply someone else. Write something down, boast of what you prescribed, but to implement someone else, someone else to bear the blame, someone else to bear the responsibility. The amendmentr did the same with the Law on Public Libraries. He adopted it, presented it as a victory, but to apply someone else, someone else to have a responsibility or some other government or coalition partners. All of them were forced by coalition partners. Third argument - competitiveness. A few dozen minutes ago, several hours ago here from this same pay phone, Col. Martinovic had so beautifully elaborated what competitiveness is. In order to ensure competitiveness, you must have the same conditions of business. Does the same conditions of business have one notary and has an employee in the court who will also carry out a copy of the signatures, transcripts and all these documents that this law provides? He won't. Because no notary pays the state and won't pay it, and all those people employed under the state administration are paid by the state. Are those the same conditions? No, they're not. Competitiveness requires the same conditions. Do you want every office in the court or in the municipality or in the local community to work and only be funded on the basis of a signature certificate? Would it be the same price? Of course they wouldn't be the same price. Don't use those populist measures. Who predicted the law to verify the signatures, the transcripts and everything that defines this law, and the manuscripts, of course, to confide in the public notebooks? The Assembly's majority from 2011. Nothing exclusive is given to them now. The easiest thing to do is to reach those drums of pulsism and say – this is terrible what they do, this is invisible, why they value you. In order to ensure competitiveness, and I'm always competitive, you have to have the same conditions of business. In this case, something like that is impossible. We do not want to run away from responsibility, 1 January or 1 March 2017 is the deadline in which this government, this government, will introduce and define public notaries in full capacity just as you predicted. We don't leave frozen conflicts. Do not burden this congregation’s majority or this government with changing some deadlines. Remember the Insurance Act. How many of the congregation’s proposings have changed the deadlines for the Insurance Act? And every time for a year. Yes, that's what this congregation majority did once, but the next time we passed the law that came into life. Do not say the things you have done now, and why do you do so? Don't weigh 100 kilos on one leg to expect us to swim like Michael Phelps or run like Jussain Bolt. We're taking our weights off, we're training, we're gonna be world champions, but it can't be overnight, and it can't be with those weights of the past that you left behind. This law is a law that is based on the law, based on the Constitution, nothing has been broken and the law that says – it gives this government a warrant to do so by the deadline prescribed by the law until 2017, not to leave the burden to some future generations because we do not have the political courage or political will so many times shown by 2012, so many times that instead of future generations, we have left a full house, we have left sick public finances. You left us a state of budget in 2012 so that there were 15 days of liquidity, half pension, half salary, half salary, and a doctor and a teacher, and now you say – well, why do you do it? What were you doing? Half a salary, 15 days, 15 days to bankruptcy. In order to present this situation as legal and legitimate, you have driven the IMF. Now that you have an IMF presence as one proof that our country is going through order, a path that is difficult, which is not current, which is not overnight, now and you represent it as a don't know what. Look in the mirror, look in the mirror at what you were doing and how you were doing. These are things to support because things are principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23179	Let me explain, I see the stealth and I see and I don't see Borislav Stefanovic. So he's got to get out of the O.R. The word is Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23180	Well, the champions of what world? The champions of your advanced world. This world is getting smaller and smaller. Sooner or later, you'll understand. The sooner you figure it out, the better, 'cause it's gonna be late later. First, why are you yelling? You think by yelling you'll make what you're saying be true? Well, he won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23181	Ambassador Stefanovic, you've now played with the Rules of Procedure. Don't do that. You're the only one who could answer and then we do tricks. You're like a stealth and I see you and I don't see you. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I have now entered. Then you're an observer. You didn't insert the card. You sat down on the back bench, you went out for a second to talk to Nikolic. Don't do that. We're not children. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Yesterday they did it. I would like to ask you to step outside and let your colleague continue to respond. I thank you for your understanding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23182	So it won't be because you're yelling to be true because everything's going well, except for reality. It's just embarrassing how good you guys are at it, except for the reality. Then a man is sought in Serbia who will say: "Well done, Wolf. You can't find him. Here, I'll say it – it's a great honor to Wolf on everything you do except reality, and what is the reality? You're reaching from the category of citizens' standards into the category of existence. Ask pregnant women who are on sick leave when they receive this pregnancy supplement? Ask them if they're uncomfortable with how good you're doing? You know that in Nis in 2012, 15 thousand people applied for social aid, in 2013, 19 thousand, in 2014, 22 thousand people. It is projected that in 2015 there will be over 25,000 people in Nis who will seek social assistance. Ask them if they are uncomfortable with how good it is for you. These are serious times, Mr. Granny. We need serious people for serious reforms. I'm just afraid you don't have the height for that discipline.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23183	Time. Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23184	In the style of Mr Nikolic – ask those 200,000 people whom you promised new jobs in 2008. Ask those 400,000 people who lost their jobs at the time of the Mirko Cvetkovic government, whom you warmly accepted and supported. Ask all those people in Serbia – what will Mr Cvetkovic say when he said in 2011 – we are statistically out of the crisis, but her citizens will not feel it. Who were you working for, Mr. Nikolic? Who should feel it if not the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? When you say it's okay, it's good because it's our country? Why are you not fair enough and correct enough to come out and say – it's fine, it's great, after ten years for the first time in a month, that is, since the beginning of the year our state, our public finances are in surplus? Thirteen billion dinars are in surplus. Thirteen billion has been made more income than has been spent. It's a sign of healing our public finances. You're from Sokobanja, and you know that even when you plant a bow in the ground, you have to wait for it to pop up. And what are you doing? You expect the city just so you can profit politically. On the other hand, don't worry about the advanced world. Don't worry about us, we don't care about you either, but we care about the citizens of Vojvodina who run this democratic world with 6% support. Is there somewhere in democracy that with 6% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as does the Democratic Party and Bojan Pajtic, for 15 years has ruled Vojvodina and in what way? From engine development to start, from reputation to place. All the choices you've had in Vojvodina have been lost, but crampingly, in Banovina, there's a man holding a chair. Whatever, make it 0.6%, but he'll say it belongs to him. It doesn't belong to you. And, you let go of the advanced world, you better take better care of your 6% and rape the democracy you're working on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23185	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dejan Nikolic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23186	A month ago, it was 50 years ago when Martin Luther King gave a speech: “I have a dream, ” or “I have a dream. ” I understand all these discussions you're having in that direction that you have a certain dream. The difference between him and you is that his speech was in the context of freedom and human rights, and your speeches are in the context of winning power on every square metre in Serbia, including where you won 20 and some MPs. Why aren't you in power when you have 306% support in Vojvodina and we're only six? Because traces of this rule of law suggest that the legitimacy of the province's government is given to the province's elections, where the Democratic Party won half of the MPs. Wait for the 2016 elections, you'll be very surprised because SNS like all balloons, or the popularity of SNS as well as all balloons are prone to fire. It's just, where's the point? Tin Ujevic spoke of this: “Many people are up to dealing with other people, but they are not up to dealing with problems. ” Well, the 10% of the energy you invest to deal with the opposition and the DS to invest in some useful thing, let's just say that you solve the problem of enlighteners, Serbia would be a better place to live. But, no, let's focus total energy on DS, on Vojvodina, because that's now the goal, to calculate, destroy and rule. Is that the goal? Well, it's not. The goal is to solve problems. But what is the paradigm of the SNS government? I have an impression, and it all seems to me that even a growing number of citizens are getting that impression, I think you're being given authority over the Sahara, the sand would be gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23187	Time. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23188	There's something similar to a balloon, and it can crack. Now, that's Mr. Nikolic's fault. No one asked the question of legality, but it's a matter of legitimacy. Legitimity, Mr. Nikolic. What's the backup? What problems did DS and Bojan Pajtic solve, so with the support they had in the past, they came to 6%? What are they qualified to do in Vojvodina and that's good, which is why you stick to the chair in Banovina with chains and locks? You think the SNS is next to the chair? Do you know how hot and hot chairs are to solve problems? Do you know how hot and hot chairs are with the empty cash register you left behind? You ask – no results? What else is the result of a contract with the IMF? What is it other than an atom of the quality of security and stability of one economy and one state? With the same IMF you drove out of Serbia in 2011. You drove them away, Mr. Nikolic, so you could use the budget for the pre-election purposes of only one party. Because of this and the use of the budget, he remained empty, he remained for 15 days of liquidity. And you take care of the enlighteners! Why didn't you solve them?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23189	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23190	Here, two sentences. How many times have we blocked Belgrade's agricultural producers? How many times have we had a draft strike? How many children in Serbia have lost days and months in schools so far? But no, that's what you're closing your eyes on, just looking at right now. We are fine, thank you for asking, and Serbia will become an orderly state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23191	Please, let us bring these replicas to an end, to return to Article 1, the amendment of Vesna Martinovic. The word has Dejan Nikolic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23192	I told you before, you're doing fine except for reality. It's a strange dilemma of torture for you when you come to parliament. Turn on the microphone and then what are we gonna talk about? There's three things. One is Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic, because, I say, your problem is that you do not have power over every square metre of the Republic of Serbia. If it isn't Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic, then the reforms of Alexander, the stars are great, the Vucica, or the reforms that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23193	You think something can be achieved by malignancy? I mean, say whatever you want, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23194	What's the problem with this? I commend the Prime Minister. I'm saying they're talking about the reforms that Alexander Vukic is conducting.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23195	Well, I'm Peter Pan...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23196	It's just, I'm saying in a way that these reforms still need someone to see. People believe more eyes than ears. If it isn't Vojvodina and Bojan Pajtic, if it isn't the reforms everyone listens about and no one sees it, then come on, why should today be different than yesterday, to spread another bucket of insults to the opposition. To your question who will pay the price of bad authority, the citizens will pay, we agree here. Citizens will pay eight billion euros in public debt for three years of SNS authorities. Citizens will pay 50,000 new employees from the SNS. Citizens will pay for the harmful contracts you sign on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens will pay for the propaganda of Aleksandr Vukic, whom he wants to mask his own ability to do anything in Serbia. One thing if you'd done in three years, you'd be boasting about it. You haven't done a single thing, and then you want insults to actually mask your own incompetence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23197	Time. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23198	I'd like a young colleague to explain to me what kind of insinuations they are to teachers. I'm proud to say that my wife is a teacher. If he thinks he's dealing with my family, he won't be the first time, but no problem, I'm ready for that, too. I'm not gonna deal with his family. As far as he's the opposition, which opposition is Bojan Pajtic? In fact, where's the opposition, Bojan Pajtic? At 6%, with the government of the Vojvodina, what opposition could it be? Who's the opposition? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Vojvodina. There, he's the opposition to them. With 6% of them is the opposition. Who's the opposition? You guys make a deal sometime. On the other hand, I'm going to teach my young colleague that the government is not being kidnapped. Maybe she got kidnapped when this building was set on fire, and the directors and editors of RTS beat up on the street. The government gets and loses. It gains support and trust from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections, in one of the only legitimate and legal places where power is and is lost due to the policy being represented, due to the policy being implemented. What's the difference between us and you is that you kidnapped and we won. Get committed to politics. Got applied to the policy. I remind you that from 2012 to 2014, with the same government as SNS and Aleksandar Vukic, this support has been doubled, and yours has been reduced to clues, but you are still in power. When you talk so nicely about harmful contracts, about bad things, I will remind you of the words of not my fellow Members and fellow Members of the SNS, I will remind you of the words of Mr. Han – give evidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23199	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23200	Give me the evidence. It's nice to practice in front of a mirror, look very nice, evidence, Mr. Nikolic. We don't want to talk about your cheerleading passions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23201	We're finishing up the replicas. You and the MP can do it elsewhere. You'd be pleased if yours were the last. I didn't ask you, I asked Mr. Nikolic, really. Indeed, the MPs are also protesting, especially those who have submitted amendments, and they want to talk about the amendment. I think we've devoted enough time, one 45 minutes, to talk about Serbia's political life. I believe there's a lot more to be said, but not according to these agenda points. The question to Vladimir Djukanovic – is the basis of your notification exclusively according to the amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23202	Thank you. I'm sorry the applicant of the amendment came out, he's not here. I support this amendment, but not in the sense that it is adopted, but I support it because you have admitted how badly you have run the country. This is a kind of recognition of a disaster in the legal system that you've introduced us because if you'd done the right thing, you would never have submitted such an amendment. You've introduced the Institute of Public Registration for the sake of order, not to really bring it back to life because you haven't done anything before to prepare to revive this Institute of Public Registration. Now we can make public records, say, completely corporate and normally work, say, in 2050. You're looking for some guarantees here. Well, who can give you guarantees? And that's just about your earlier controversy that you've all had here with Mr. Babic, the best evidence of how much chaos you've left in this country. You've introduced several of these institutes into the judiciary. For example, you've instituted the Institute of Prosecutor's Investigations. You've created a complete mess for us. It's barely happening now. We have to do it because we're committed to something, but you've introduced it back-to-back, and so is this. Why are you now asking, if it was all so ideal in 2011, when you passed the Law on Public Records, why didn't you think about who would verify and copy and sign and all this stuff, but now you're asking for 2020 to fully implement it? Then blame the current minister for giving some time. Well, he was giving, he thought maybe he could do it. It can't be implemented, obviously. One million times, I will repeat Valthazar Bogisic: “When the coat of arms is born, the time is not right. ” You left us a complete mess in the country. You are now asking us to guarantee that this will take place in 2017. We hope he will, we'll work on it, we'll be dedicated, unlike you. We are not law-making for the sake of order, but we are passing laws to make it happen in Serbia, and you have done this in order to enlist someone in the European Commission, so that they may extend your mandate. That was the only reason you did this, and you set us up with total chaos. I'm sorry, but there's something going on here in this country, and the evidence is exactly this 13.3 billion surplus, which you've never had, and this country has it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23203	Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarovic, submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23204	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment, wanting to put two things first. First, the deadline proposed as 1 January 2017, to move it on 1 March 2017, because we came by simple calculation that it was a deadline that corresponds to the implementation of the legal provisions of the two laws – the law amending the Act on the verification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts and the Law on public notebooks. That period of 1 March 2017 was adopted. It is our great pleasure that we have properly helped to move this deadline. Another idea we had was the idea to remove the actual situation that if there was a appointment of public notebooks in certain places, to enter an additional part in paragraph 3 after saying "or municipal administrations as a trusted business", to add the words "and these jobs can also be done after the appointment of public notebooks and no later than 1 March 2017". Starting from the fact that the situation may occur, for example, from the middle of 2016 to the end of 2016 or from 1 March 2017, public notebooks may be appointed in certain places, to remove this legal uncertainty, i.e. that the legal situation is regulated in advance. However, the amendment we received, which was proposed by the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, gave way to the idea, i.e. the content of the amendments submitted by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, the truth, was accepted in the first part of the deadline of 1 March 2017, and we are very pleased about that, but it was said below that it would be possible to verify itself after 1 March 2017 and until the appointment of public notebooks. Assumption of my and our parliamentary groups is that there is the possibility or likelihood that by 1 March 2017, the Republic of Serbia will not be covered by a system of public notebooks, i.e. that there are still public notebooks missing from some places on March 1st 2017. It seems to me that a two-year period from today is sufficient, reasonable time to choose and name public notebooks. Of course, I am fully aware of the facts, as already stated by fellow MPs, that this is a matter of personal choice, that we cannot put any kind of pressure on whether lawyers who meet the conditions for public notaries will be reported and will be elected, or appointed, but on the other hand, it seems to me, if we do not want to compromise the idea of public notaries and public notaries, notaries, in the Republic of Serbia, that the period of two years is absolutely reasonable and I do not see why we would introduce the possibility that even after 1 March 2017 and until the appointment of public notebooks. In this way, we did not arm this situation, which means that far after 1 March 2017, public notebooks in certain places may not be appointed, and then the question is, indeed, their opportunities, the opportunities of our election, the opportunities of notariats, as such, and the compromise of the public records system in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23205	Thank you. Olga Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23206	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I must first thank the distinguished Professor Dr Besarović, because it seems to me that, by submitting such an amendment to all of us, it has presented the need for Article 29, Article 3, to be amended. We have just come from amendments to which she is a signator and we have set out when we are on the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government found it necessary to just intervene, therefore, and in Section 3, which regulates the situation – and what about those cities, or those municipalities in whose territories are not appointed public notebooks. In terms of the first part, I think the distinguished professor was very well noticed, and I, in fact, at the very beginning of this debate today, said that this amendment of the Committee was, in fact, some sort of a buildup, so that it would come out to the opposition MPs, I mean Mr Pavicevic and Zivkovic, but also the positions, I mean, first of all, of course, to the distinguished Mrs Besarović, who, in full sense, felt that one change should be made in attitude 3, because, in contrast, of course, there would be a complete legal void. So, what's the difference? There's a difference, like Professor. Besarovic said, in its amendment, the essence is that "by March 1st at the latest", we also put it after March 1st, precisely for the reasons that the applicant himself stated. I have to agree here with the distinguished professor that, of course, there is a conjecture, and first of all, she looks at herself in a position not to be appointed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23207	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23208	But none of us can know the dynamics of the appointment of public notebooks. This concludes, there are small municipalities for which there is only one notary to be appointed. They haven't been appointed yet, and whether or not in the next period, we don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23209	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejamn Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23210	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this amendment is exactly the same as the one we submitted to the bill on the approval of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts and last time we changed the law. At that time, and now we propose that the approval of the signature, i.e. the collection of signatures to the electoral list, or the signatures necessary for the establishment of the party remain in the jurisdiction of the basic courts, i.e. municipal and city administrations, besides the notebooks. I will take, for example, the collection of signatures of support to the electoral lists of national minorities. If we take into account the fact that minorities living grouped in the territory of cities and municipalities that do not have a sufficient number of notebooks, then we see that the position of these communities and minority and political parties that represent them is unequal to the majority parties. The same can be seen as a daunting circumstance for some of the majority regional parties. Short deadlines for the collection of signatures and the insufficient capacity of the notebooks to meet the requirements of all lists and majority and minority may affect the inequality of the position of the electoral lists of which the minority will have and will suffer the greatest damage. Large parties collect their signatures on the territory of the entire country, and minority mostly in several of these municipalities and cities that I said did not have enough notebook capacity. The additional reason for the adoption of this amendment is also the fact that the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and the Law on Local Elections, which is prescribed that a declaration of support is carried out exclusively and that the Court has jurisdiction for it, and this proposal requires that the jurisdiction be prescribed exclusively by the notaries. Therefore, the adoption of our amendment would remove this one apparent discrepancy and the easiest way to do so. As I said at the beginning of the address, we submitted the same amendment when we discussed the amendment and the addition of this same law the previous time. With these changes, you have partially confirmed that we were absolutely right at the time, and therefore I call on the proposings and fellow MPs to support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23211	The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23212	Thank you, Madam President. All right, all right, I'll proceed in the spirit of what my colleague Imamovic said. It is a similar problem in Presevo Valley, because the maltenes here Presevo and Bujanovac must collect five thousand signatures that we have so far had to verify in basic courts. However, come on in Presevo, there was no court or court, but it's different when a state body has the capacity, it has that potential and that more employees are engaged in this job. I'm saying business, which was the main item, the main position in the entire campaign. Imagine at all the minorities they aim to provide an MP. The last time it was over 11,000, a couple of times it was 14,000, and on the other hand it was almost the same number to verify, so far, here it is through the court credentials. Now, as it will be with public notebooks is a special question, it has yet to be seen in practice how feasible it is that a public notebook office organises a short period of time, here in a municipality of five thousand signatures. Therefore, it is this concern that, because huge problems can really arise and bring about the achievement of the legal obligations, including constitutional ones, that we should think for a little longer, if not the whole, as the amendment is foreseen, that these solutions with the court or the competent municipal authorities should continue to remain in place, and would probably be more practical and would allow that choice, which can be made more quickly, can make this problem more effective with the oversigned support of these voters' lists. There is also a problem with the current practice that still Presevo, Bujanovac has no notebooks, but there is one particular topic that we will have opportunities to discuss more specifically and more here that this process and this process is going very slowly. Neither Preshevo nor Bujanovac so far have any notebooks. But I call, however, once again to think more seriously about this problem, what it will look like in practice when one office of notebooks in Presevo, and also in Bujanovac, will be able to sign 5,000 signatures within a period of twenty to thirty days, to do that, in addition to all other jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23213	The word is Olga Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23214	Thank you. I thank Mr. Imamovic and Halimi for the very submission of the amendments and for a really constructive proposal, and what can be seen from the reasons and when I first said that there are several amendments that deserve attention, and actually there are four such amendments, then this one certainly belongs to those mentioned. As for the problem, specifically related to which I quote such an amendment, which is the authority for the overture of the signature, that is, the statement of members of the political parties, I will avoid, of course, that I would not, of course, take time for you and myself needlessly, to read the entire amendment as it reads, since we were all able to get to know him. In fact, it also essentially foresees actual possibilities and is proposed to retain absolute competence for the certification of signatures and public notebooks and basic courts and municipalities and city administrations. All of this, of course, appears in Article 29, which is provided for by the amendment promoter to implement and supplement it by adding a new position 5. In this place, I have to mention, as I have many times seemed to say in today's day, which is that if I were to take as a permanent solution that absolutely everyone is responsible for doing the tasks of certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, and in the context of this amendment and for the opting out of the statements of members of the political party, then we also have public records, then we have courts, then we have city municipalities, then we have municipalities. In doing so, the Institute of Public Literature is devising itself in the first place, and we're actually going back to the beginning. If we are to leave the authority of all these bodies, then Serbia definitely did not need the introduction of a public notebook.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23215	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23216	That's the only thing, because if it were a permanent solution, it would cause some other members to change. We've already said, I'm finishing, that in the transitional and final provisions we can't change the material provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23217	Thank you. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blažje Bradić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Boris Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marjanović, Vesna Martinović, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Natasa Vuković, Dragoljub Micunović, Ivan Jovanovic, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Marković and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23218	I would like to thank Madam President, my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, our amendment, in fact, proposes that, instead of taking effect on the first day of publication in the Official Messenger, as envisaged by the proposal, a common practice is established, that the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger. Just to point out once again the truly incredibly irresponsible relationship that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has with this whole business. We, when we tried to discuss the amendments to this law on 29 August, actually this law that we're changing today. This was Friday, August 31st, on Sunday night, we discussed amendments in this assembly, and the law came into force before it was published in "The Official Messenger", precisely because of some big rush that Mr Selakovic from then on hastened and justified the various reasons for which we see today, and then we claimed that they were neither justified, nor thoughtful, nor can they be acceptable. Now we're back in a very similar situation. The law changed in comparison to what it looked like Monday morning. I'm not saying almost all of it, because it's changed, you have two members, you change one, and the other is when the law comes into force. That means you've practically changed the law. This means that again there have been various oversights, various mistakes, various failures and under-prepared and thoughtful things, and that is why we suggest that this time not be hasty and that, besides many of his mistakes, the Proposer accepts and that he has late proposed amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-25-0.u23219	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, February 25th, 2015, starting at 14.30pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the eighth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. So, in 20 minutes to prepare the MPs for the vote. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we begin work, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 155 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present, and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Act on Authentication, Signature, manuscripts and transcripts in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – two abstentions – there are no, there are not eight MPs from the total of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority vote, accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment submitted to Article 1 by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen, etc. Blagoje Bradic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 159 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 169 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr. Alexander Jerkov, the People's MP, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MP Vesna Martinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarovic, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Snezana Malović, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Aleksandar Senić, Branka Karavidić, Goran Bogdanović, Slobodan Homen and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Boris Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Vesna Marijanović, Vesna Martinović, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Natasa Vukković, Dragoljub Micunović, Aida Ćorović, Jovana Jovanovic, Jovan Markovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – four abstentions – there are no votes, nine of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Act on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 against – four abstentions – there is no vote, seven of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill amending the Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. The decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure by the MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 23 February 2015, at 14 hours and 47 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – four, abstentions – there is no vote, 158 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015.
