ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34471	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljiljana Kosoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34472	Thank you. I refer to the question and request of the Minister of Education, Mr Srdjan Verbić, on behalf of 130 children of the students of travellers and their parents of the “Mito Igumanović” elementary school in Koserić, as well as a large part of the employees of this school and all those whose child safety is first in solving the problem in this school. The minister is aware that there have been problems in this school, in the previous school year, and it concerns the interpretation of Article 32. The law on basic education and education, the organisation of regular half-day classes, is in two shifts, that all students regularly attend classes in both shifts, changing at equal intervals, no longer than one month. Where's the problem? At the Mito Igumanović elementary school in Koserić, the shift work has been organised for years in these two shifts, where upper-class students from 5th to 8th, who have a higher number of classes in the morning, are about 130 students, travellers from nine villages. Some are quite far away, bordering the neighboring municipalities, villages are unlit, mountainous area, slopes, rinks, garbage during winter. These students have a larger number of classes and after class in the afternoon, they can safely reach their homes at a reasonable time, and when they go in the afternoon, they would reach their homes only around 9:00 p.m., and in winter time it was already dark. The houses are scattered, and despite transportation from school to the center of the village, they must walk more than one hour in different directions. All parents are unable to meet them and follow them. Lower-class students attend classes in the afternoon, because they have fewer classes, and they arrive at houses before, and they are children from urban or suburban areas, because in villages there are already schools for lower processing, up to the fourth grade of primary school. Last year, in last year's school year, Minister of Education Mr. Srdjan Verbic was familiar with this problem, and the school had his oral recommendation to continue on the old system, as students' safety was compromised. However, a written response from the ministry to the school, to address this problem, has also come to the school administrations, which has sparked concern from parents to the public, as the educational inspector's order to follow the law, as set out in Article 32. The beginning of the school year and, according to parents, their boycott and suspension will be repeated. Because of childcare, the demands are justified by them, and requests have also been made to the Minister of Education, Mr Verbić, to help solve the problem. Parents also call for the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, Article 42 relating to the responsibility of the institution for the safety of children and students concerned by the institution, in collaboration with local self-government, and closer to the conditions of form, measures, way, procedure and guidelines for the protection of child and student safety, so that the minister can make his decision which will be in accordance with the law. We hope for a favourable outcome and I would like to point out one more question, another issue concerns the city's damage payment, the Ministry of Emergency, Mr Velimir Ilic, we were all witnesses that in early May, city clouds destroyed a large part of the so far in western Serbia, especially the Aril municipality, so simply, since these people live on raspberries, and the rest of them, due to their income this year, are interested in when the city's damages will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34473	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. During last year's floods, my first question is who and on the basis of which legal act took over the headquarters's jurisdiction for emergency situations, the town of Sapca, whose head was then, after the decision of the Assembly of the City of Sabac, the then mayor Milos Milosevic? I also refer the second question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, when the Serbian government will repay the debt of 66 million to the town of Sapac, is it the only city that has not received a refund of funds in the name of the damages from last year's floods. The next question is referred to the Minister of Defense and to the Prime Minister. What's this about? As early as last year, a master plan has been adopted that regulates the alienation of military property, and that master plan lists all military assets that are not needed by the Serbian military for normal functioning. It is located all over the Republic of Serbia and are usually attractive locations where former Yugoslav troops were barracks. In Nis that plan is covered, I'll list a few locations. It is the barracks "Buban Heroes", then the barracks in the village of Red Stara, then the barracks "Philip Ljajic", the barracks "Knez Mihajlo", the Serbian Army House, which is in the city centre. Since all of the above in 2012, the sale of the "Buban Heroes" barracks and the construction of the facilities is under way, the location has been cleared and the investor has begun to bring her in for purposes. What I know is that the City of Nis, the local self-government has entered into negotiations with the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Serbia about the House of the Army, that the City of Nis has also called for a competition for an idea solution, because it has predicted that the House of the Army should be a hotel and a congress centre that is very needed by a city in such a location and size. The question is, how far has it come and when negotiations between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the local self-government of the City of Nis will be completed. What I also know is that Lidl was interested in negotiating with local self-government, the Ministry of Defence about the location in the Red Star settlement, I don't know exactly what it's called. There's supposed to be a big business facility. My question is how far did it go and when will these negotiations be over? Next question – when will negotiations between local self-government and the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be completed regarding other locations? We are talking about attractive locations in the City of Nis, located in the central areas of the municipality of Niš and it is very important for further development of the City, the launch of the construction industry to bring these locations to their purposes. What the city was doing, it's planned documentation. The city did complete the planning documentation for everything that turned out to be necessary. So the question is when will this land conversion end, i.e. bringing in the intentions of those barracks that are not needed now by the Serbian military? One more question. In the street of Marko Oreshković there is a military facility that is prone to fall, I am talking about the central zone of the City. It's a shame and a shame that a military facility in the city center is surrounded by ribbons, because it's prone to fall and dangerous to passersby? What's interesting is that there are interested investors who want to build a residential business facility in that location, so I ask the Ministry of the Army - when will this location or bring in the intentions, i.e. revitalise the object, or leave it, i.e. make a deal with investors to bring in the intention first and remove the danger to passersby? I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34475	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. DUBRAVKA PHILOPOVSKI: Thank you, Chairman. My question will be addressed to the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. For a long time, a group of domestic broadcasters have been pointing to a problem with the gray economy, both with an irregular status and the position of domestic broadcasters compared to cross-border emitters. On several occasions, domestic broadcasters addressed both the Ministry of Culture and the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Market Inspectorate Sector, pointing to the unauthorized and illegal termination of the original programme on cross-border channels that re-emission it in the networks of the domestic operator. According to the knowledge I have, this whole disk material was delivered as evidence to the Ministry of Culture. In 17.10.2014, the Ministry of Culture forwarded the entire material to REM, and the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media, 3.12.2014, informs the market inspection sector. So, a year and a half are competent institutions familiar with this problem, but nothing in the area is solved. I must remind you that the Law on Electronic Media, adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is very clear in Article 100(2). The electronic media law requires the operator to distribute the media services of radio or television broadcasting at the same time and completely without change, and in accordance with the written consent provided. In the position of the 14th member of the electronic media regulator, it shall monitor and ensure compliance with the obligations of the operator prescribed by the provisions of this Article in cooperation with the regulatory body responsible for the field of electronic communications. The law also lays down sanctions for those who violate it. According to Article 111 paragraph 7 of this Act, a fine of 500,000 dinars to 1,000,000 dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if it does not comply with the provisions of this law relating to the specific obligations of electronic communications network operators for the distribution of media content. So I'm asking the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media who, under the Law on Electronic Media, is responsible for this area, what has she done and what is she intending to do, given the flagrant violation of the law, to the great problem of the gray economy and to the clear evidence that domestic operators point out in this area? Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34477	I'm asking Minister Alexander Vulin's first question on behalf of the Association for the Protection of Pensioners, registered in the APR, who tried to reach the minister. They've reached the Secretary of State, so I'm asked to ask a question on their behalf. I would have my own personal questions, Minister Vulina, but unfortunately for me, and fortunately for him, business provisions prohibit me from asking such questions, and I ask a question on behalf of the problems of about 6,000 pensioners in Serbia. What's this about? It is mainly about persons who retired, i.e. on the labour market 2011, 2012, 2013 as a technological surplus up to the age of 40 with or without full years of life. Meanwhile, the National Assembly decided on a pension law and all those persons, when they reached the conditions to get a pension solution, got a solution that stands, only one case will indicate that the pension of 32,000 dinars was achieved, but that it was reduced by 20.4%. They tried to get an explanation from the ministry's authorities and a basis for why such a solution is and when it will receive the pension that is set out in the solution. Not to mention that, without any announcements of this, in 2012 whether there would be a change in the pension system or a reduction in pensions, they would not make decisions about their lives. On the contrary, the pre-election announcements were – no pension cuts, no changes in conditions, and people are used to believing people who run for office in the government, in the Assembly, wherever they are. The secretary of state they spoke to answered what you did, it's temporary. That's my question. On the basis of which, Minister Vulina asked if he was authorized or the Secretary of State himself said that it was a temporary reduction of 20.4%, if called, and there is no data, because there is no answer from the Ministry to the law? The word "temporary" exists only on behalf of that law, does not exist in any member, since the National Assembly has deleted the provision of how long the pension reduction will be deleted by amendment. So, on what basis do people, who were technologically surpluses and then obtained a condition, give a solution to a pension that was achieved with a 20.4% reduction? I'm absolutely sure that all kidnapped pensions will have to be returned, but this is now a priority for six thousand people who want to be explained to them the legal basis by which they got their own solutions, trusting people who claimed there would be no pension cuts and there would be no change on the terms of retirement. I'm asking Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic the second question. He's the fifth or fourth minister I ask that question to. So, both Minister Diana Dragutinovic and Minister Mladjan Dinkic, and Minister Lazar Krstic, and now Minister Dusan Vujovic, for his statement that by the end of July 2015, a law on financing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina will be drawn up. Since there's another day of July, I'm asking the question on time. So will the minister keep his promise and will we have information tomorrow on the draft or draft law on financing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina? Although he has already spoken to us falsely, when, within what time, he thinks he will be able to propose to the National Assembly a law on financing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34478	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34479	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on 4 August of this year, we will mark 20 years of the loss and persecution of Serbs in Croatia in action "Storm". In those days, more than 250,000 Serbs were expelled by Croatian armed forces, more than two thousand Serbs were killed, and more than 40,000 residential, commercial and auxiliary buildings were burned, burned or robbed. Further, after the "Storm" action, the Croatian-Muslim-Bosnica forces expelled another 150,000 Serbs from the western provinces, and 655 Serbs were killed. I particularly highlight the mass grave in Mrkonjic City where 181 Serbs were killed. We must not forget the loss of Serbs in other areas of the former Yugoslavia. I remind myself of other Croatian military-police actions, the "Otkos" action in 1991, when tens of thousands of Serbs were expelled from the Western Slavonia area, most of the western Slavonia, then the operation, that is, the action "Miljevska plato, Maslenica, Mljeljački pocket", the action "Blesak", which expelled Serbs on 1 May 1995 from the rest of the Western Slavonia that was under Serbian control. Also, we must not forget the loss of Serbs in the Bosnia and Herzegovina area. In addition to the loss of Serbs in the western provinces, we have Serb casualties in other parts of the Federation of BiH in Mostar, Sarajevo, Bugojn, Tuzli, Travnik and other cities. According to the Alliance of Republika Srpska campers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, primarily the Federation of BiH, there were 526 camps for Serbs. Also, we must not forget the loss of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija from over 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians. Also, we have several thousand injured Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Because of all these facts, the government of the Republic of Serbia decided at a joint session with the Republika Srpska government to declare August 5th the day of memory of the Serb exile. I really want to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Vukic, on behalf of the refugee associations, on behalf of the exiled Serbs, which is the first government, i.e. the first time that a government of the Republic of Serbia has decided in such a way to show its attitude towards the injured and exiled Serbs. I want to ask two questions. The first question I ask the Prosecutor's Office of War Crimes of the Republic of Serbia, Prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic -- what concrete measures of the activities of the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office have taken and taken to finally start punishing, processing crimes against Serbs? Unfortunately, the facts show that the Croatian judiciary and the BiH judiciary, i.e. the BiH prosecutor's office and the BiH court, have double standards in war crimes trials, far stricter for Serbs, far easier for Croats and Bosniaks. The same situation is also in the area of Kosovo and Metohija of the so-called Pristina authorities. We have high hopes in the war crimes prosecutor's office and expect to raise the issue of numerous war crimes against Serbs in Croatian cities with an active approach to the Croatian prosecutor's office, the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will only mention major crimes in the BiH area of Serbia -- the Tuzla Column, the Sarajevo Column, major crimes in Sarajevo. Major crimes committed by members of the Fifth Corps of the BiH Army in the western provinces. All these crimes have remained unpunished so far, and the war crimes prosecutor's office has a great responsibility to finally raise these issues. I also ask the Commission for Missing Persons - what measures have it taken to address missing persons issues? In the end, I would like to invite all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to come on August 5th to a parastos that will be held at St. Mark's church in Tashmajdan. Parastos will serve His Holiness Patriarch Irinej. It's 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34480	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34481	At 14 hours on the same day, here I am ending, so on August 5th, on Wednesday, the Grand Memorial Academy will be held at the Grand Hall of the Sava Centre where we will recall the loss and persecution of the Serb people from the territory of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija. The academy will feature one 15-minute film on Serb death and will be a short art programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34482	Since no one is answering from the president or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs – Professor Branko Djurović, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarevic, Branko Bosnjak, Djorđe Cabarkapa, Branko Ružić. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail of the 10th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE TERRAT TRANSPORT LAW IN THE DRUMS COMMUNICATION, acting unanimously to Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session by Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure, Miodrag Poledica and Dejan Trifunović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure, Saša Stojanović, Deputy Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure, Daniela Djikanovic, Tatjana Raseta, Mira Marinković Alexic and Damir Ledencan, independent advisers at the Ministry of Construction, Transport, Infrastructure. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Zoran Babić, Ivan Stojljković, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Komić, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Marković, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic, Dragan Šutanovic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr. Blaže Bradić, as well as the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34483	Thank you very much. Both Mr Pavicevic and I have already declared ourselves on this law, on these two laws and said that these are good laws based on our consultations with people who are deep in that matter and therefore we will support those laws, as we have said and we have given 18 amendments. Most of them have been accepted. These are amendments that are the continuation of our struggle to preserve the Serbian language, grammar and spelling, and I think it's good and I think it's good that the ministry had an understanding of it, and I hope that from that ministry we will continue, that these two laws will be an example of what laws should come to the Assembly in essence, and about the lexis, you have to try a little bit or we will continue that part. It's not hard for us. But in principle, the Minister said that if I had new evidence that there was no conservation of the basilica, that I would deliver them, and I would now deliver them to the minister, and I would invite her and her fellow MPs and the Serbian public to go to the New Party site and see a movie about what was done there. The movie's disturbing. There you have scenes that are rude in normal life, let alone when they happen around basilica. I'm going to give the minister now. I'll approach if it's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34484	The word has a vice-president and minister in the government, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34485	So, this law that we are discussing today and the amendments concerning freight transport in road transport, I thank all MPs who gave their opinion and their amendments. We tried to make everything that could fit into the law and improve the law to be even more effective, to accept it. As far as basilica is concerned, it is preserved in accordance with the law and in accordance with all that the institutions have said. Now I could get up, but I'm here as a guest in the Assembly, and I could give you all of this evidence that I've brought, which I'm not going to do like this, but today, when they're MPs, I'm also going to hand it over to you to see that when we work, then we're working in accordance with the law and in accordance with all the documentation that we have to do to keep the basilica preserved.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34486	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34487	Just a few words. The Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, we only suggested that in Article 13(2), where it is requested in the documentation that entrepreneurs should have, your proposal was to look for a certified photocopy, since it is an official document, and we suggested that it go without a photocopy, so as not to complicate the administration of people who do this work. You accepted that. It's one language editorial, so I thank you for accepting it, and I think this kind of interpretation is better and this is the process of getting all the necessary documents from the freight carrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34488	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34489	Thank you. My colleagues and I have tried an amendment to, by one, specify and, under two, do a little dialogue on licensing. So our proposal is to issue a licence with a period of up to 10 years, with regular controls every two years. We have read the argument and, as I said, it is our belief that this is possible and so much should be a reason for dialogue, because we believe that licensing and that it has to do with traffic safety and the security conditions under which a company, a legal person or an entrepreneur is engaged after obtaining a licence. In characterized form, in order to explain why we believe that regular controls are necessary under the law, I repeat, in a characterised form we also consider that for example. when the person who has the official need to have the weapon, but also the one who doesn't, is needed when allowed to do regular checks. We don't come across an understanding in any case, because we're told that our law doesn't know what regular checks are, but it's going to be wrong, and then it's going to be found that he made a mistake and a violation on the basis of which the license is withdrawn. The difference is looking at the idea of making the law. We view lawmaking as something that should arrange space without punishment, without threats. Of course there has to be a penalty, there's no law unless it's foreseen what's going to happen to those who don't respect it, but to introduce it, at least in some law, the idea that once we determine, as in this case for the transport of a license, there's no such thing as never being a license, except in the register, there's no license. What would regular control mean? It would mean, of course, an extra job for those who betray, but for that they're paid out of the budget. We would do a lot of work on the credibility of everyone working on licensing and raising confidence in the full security of traffic for all licensed licenses, regardless of whether they are companies, entrepreneurs, legal entities or anyone. So I hope I've explained it to you. It's not about insisting on accepting the amendment, it's about the subject that we consider extremely important.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34490	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34491	So you don't think there's no regular controls and there's no license control, and there's an inspection there to keep in check and keep track of all the conditions that someone has to meet in order to have a license. Plus we've additionally put that deadline when it's mandatory to do it can't be, as it's already written, longer than five years. I also understand your thinking that it's supposed to be for two years, but that doesn't mean that no one, for example, in the five years that we've put on, is going to control the license and the conditions that someone's got the license. So that's why there's an inspection doing his job. It was the thinking of us who proposed such a member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34492	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34493	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, Article 7 speaks of conditions for the issue of a licence. You have suggested that a member of the transport licence may be issued to a domestic company, to another legal entity or to an entrepreneur if he submits evidence that he meets the following conditions: 1) business reputation; 2) financial capacity; 3) professional training; 4) real and permanent headquarters; 5) corresponding rolling stock; 6) the corresponding number of drivers employed. In addition to the word “financial”, we felt that the word “operational ability” should be added. We consider it necessary for the carrier to also have operational capacity, to organise and carry out freight transport in accordance with normal business standards. The operational capacity implies knowledge of the rules for the transport of cargo, manipulation of different types of cargo, including the specificities of the customs procedure in international transport and the like. I'm asking you to reconsider, I don't think he's burned to clarify this article and make it a little bit more detailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34494	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just draw a brief attention to the amendment promoter, if this was the intention of potentiating knowledge, and it is, since it stands in the written explanation of the amendments, this bill already covers the need to provide such a thing. It's in the explanation that we got from the government and I'm going to briefly supplement it with just one more piece of information as a guideline. In Article 10, everything relating to the necessary certification is specified as an appropriate guarantee of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34496	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34497	In the text of the draft law, Article 7 defines who can be granted the licence, which is a domestic and commercial company, another legal person or entrepreneur, and in the event that he submits evidence of the necessary six conditions, which is that he has a business reputation, that he has financial capacity, professional training, a real and permanent seat, an appropriate rolling stock and an appropriate number of working drivers. In the second paragraph, it is said that a domestic company, another legal entity or entrepreneur must meet the conditions laid down in points (1) to (5) of this Article continuously. If it's deliberately excluded, we haven't even intervened here since we talked, which from that corresponding number of employees, why doesn't it have to keep filling in, so we've found enough explanation. Our intervention is in line with the proposal for the Ministry to exercise control for two years and we put it in the power of the Ministry, that every two years it is required to exercise control to determine whether the domestic company, the other legal person or the entrepreneur fulfils all the conditions laid down in Article 1, so not from 1 to 5. Why are we talking about the Ministry, not especially the inspections? Because we believe that these solutions should create an ambience of mutual trust, that it is of common benefit to the representatives of the Ministry of Licenses, as well as to those who use licences. If it wasn't for that -- now I'm going to catch you working without a real and permanent seat or working without enough drivers, but it's common interest to have one huge part of life in society, on our country's territory safely and on the security of everyone. In order for that to happen, some messages should be sent that there is no inspection to catch, so that it prosecutes or prosecutes, but that this job simply, we couldn't write "supervisory", the respects you can control the issued license, but we also want to contribute to this dialogue and provisions change the attitude in our society, which is not only here in traffic, but also in many sectors, it is that the laws serve to harm someone, which is not true. The laws should serve to harm criminal provisions if you commit an offence, but generally the laws should serve all of us well and allow us to arrange any segment of life. From there, it is our desire for the Ministry to be in charge every two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34498	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34499	Thank you, Chairman. I am going to commit myself very briefly to this member, or to the amendments proposed by the amendment, and I thank you for making this amendment part of the law. So Article 8 is governed by the conditions regarding business reputation. That's what we talked about in the law in principle, when we said that a person who is also a company that deals with transport shouldn't have and shouldn't have criminal and criminal charges. However, here there was the word “treet, ” meaning that a person who is only engaged in freight transport is being restricted. So, this word should have been deleted, so that the provisions would be provided for commercial offences and violations for all types of public transport. Therefore, the carrier can transport both cargo and goods and in that sense unite this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34500	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradić together submitted the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so Article 9 is talking about financial ability, and we have a two-part amendment here. The first amendment is to Article 7, where we added that, with the title that you gave, the financial capacity was also operational, because we asked for a change of what you did not accept in Article 7. The second refers to point 1 point 1), I will read for viewers. "The condition regarding financial capacity meets a company, a second legal entity or an entrepreneur who settles his tax and business obligations and has a capital and reserves of 2,000 euros for the first freight vehicle or a set of vehicles and 1,000 euros for each of the following freight vehicles or a set of vehicles in dinar equivalent, according to the official middle course of the dinar, which is determined by the National Bank of Serbia, on the day of submission of the application for a transport licence for public transport of goods in domestic road transport. “ We suggested that the numbers 2,000 and 1,000 be replaced by 2,500 and 1,500. After Article 1, we added a new position, which reads: "The Minister is closer to laying down a way of proving financial capacity. “ You have answered us in an explanation that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons set out in the reasons for not accepting the amendments under regular number 5. He's referring to Article 7. Okay, that's fine. I'll continue as you replied. The promoter also estimated that the amount of cash needed to meet the condition for the financial capacity to issue a public transport freight licence in domestic road transport is suitable for economic operators in the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask you – based on what? On what basis did you calculate that it should be 2,000 euros and 1,000 euros, and not 2,500 and 1,500 euros? How did that math happen? I know it's not a question for you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, but it's for your associates. How did that happen? Why isn't it 1,500, why isn't it 800? What defined it to be 2,000 euros and 1,000 euros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34502	He has the word, as an applicant for the amendment, MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34503	Thank you. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I'm just gonna fill out my colleague Bradic. This answer in fact says that the number given by my colleague, 2,000 and 1,000, is actually suitable for economic operators in the Republic of Serbia. I can understand that. However, given that some companies registered for domestic traffic have the possibility of bilateral transport with neighbouring countries, the risk is higher. Why is the difference between those registered only for domestic road traffic, and they are allowed to have bilateral transport with neighbouring countries as large as is necessary for the registration, i.e. the issue of licences for those carrying both domestic and international traffic. Somehow that difference is too big for us. I understand your concern for economic operators working on Serbia's territory, or working in domestic traffic, but I think our proposal is for these figures to be more meaningful and comprehensive, as someone would say at yesterday's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34504	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34505	About the amounts you're talking about. Where international permits are located, the amounts are determined according to the directives. Where home permits are, in accordance with our association, registered and certified as our transport carriers' associations. So, in a joint agreement and conversation, we have made these amounts that we have put into law, given exactly what it says in the context of the amendments, the state of our transport economy and the state of businesses. We believe that when we talk about domestic transport, so within the country, it's simply the most impoverished amount at this point. You also asked me about bilaterals. It should also be taken into account that the majority of these transports are carried out in border areas, therefore, should be taken into account and of the interests in this regard, therefore, of the possibilities that can be applied to transport in this regard. So there were a few things, and that's why, when you say, it's proportion. Yes, it seems a big difference, but there's a difference here compared to the international ones here compared to the situation in our country, and in agreement with our transport companies, I'm undermining.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34506	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34507	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have come here in a bit of an awkward situation, it is usually normal for the opposition to give criteria that are milder, or more suited to those who need to pay some cash. Here is the opposite, the promoter gave a smaller amount and I think it's good, especially for those who will have to pay those compensations and for that reason I don't see the possibility to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34508	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34509	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, we understand each other completely, and I fully understand the Ministry's intention, that with these means, and I will read once again - the conditions regarding financial capacity meet the company, the other legal person or entrepreneur who settles his tax and business obligations. It's okay and it's something being documented over some time period, is that it has capital and reserves in the amount of, so you said two thousand and a thousand euros etc. - according to the official middle course established by the National Bank of Serbia on the day of submission of the licence application. Now I'm talking to the other MPs, so the moment he gets his license, the next day he doesn't have to have any more funds. I just want to say that I fully understand this solution. The ministry wanted this to ensure a stable business of an economic operator who received a specific licence, so that he could fulfil certain obligations, so as not to bring other economic operators into trouble. But with a solution like this, he's bound to, colleagues, that he only has that money when he gets the license, it doesn't say he has to have the next day. And the essence of the proposal was that he had deposited money and had capital and reserves in the amount, but then it was written in the draft article that he should have this on the day of the application for a licence. You may think differently, you may be conducting differently, but it says here that only on the day of submission should he have that money. It doesn't say he has to keep that money in his account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34510	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34511	I'm sorry, but you're wrong. He in continuity meets his requirements, and on that day when you look, you see only a course, the height of a course on that day that can be different. So, it says, look at the whole law, and everything that it says, we've really been leading, we've been taking special care of it, just because of the course and everything that can be different. So, in continuity, he has to meet his obligations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34512	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34513	So, just one sentence. I totally believe and I'm convinced that you have a good intention of making the law quality, but I'm reading what it says, I can't assume. In this article, on the basis of which someone will be licensed, you are asking, now I don't want to go further, you're asking that on the day and it says that on the day of the application there is money per the course of the National Bank, two thousand and a thousand euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34514	Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34515	Still, I don't think you've seen everything. To repeat, the conditions for issuing a licence, in Article 7, do not list, business reputation, financial capacity, professional etc. The final position says - a domestic company, another legal person, or an entrepreneur must continuously meet the conditions laid down in Article 1(1) to (5) of this Article. So it's constantly meeting all these conditions, so it meets the condition that we've just said, and we're just taking a course on that day it's being carried out. So it says very clearly, it's constantly coming true. All the time. I think it's clear what the word means uninterrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34516	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34517	Thanks again. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this has removed the doubt and in a potentially different approach, reading the same text, but only one note, we should not be due in this debate, because we understand or not about the individual figures, which are mentioned here, there is only one way to do the right thing when it comes to this amendment. It's that we don't adopt it, because as it's known, there's no partial adoption. There are more things being suggested here, the first thing I've pointed to and just before, it's about changing the title this time and again mentioning that operational ability. So if what the Amendment Proposer said was precise in the first mention of the term, another way is regulated and is already covered by the Law, but here the situation in several and worse. The promoter changed the title, and not a single time after that he did not deal with the change further was through the discussion of the members, where any definition, introduction, anything related to the operational capacity of the amendment was proposed. It's not anywhere. So this really doesn't have some, let me say, meaning through the use of value, and I think the amendment promoter agrees, given that his exposure, I'll remind him, started in words -- yes, this argument is absolutely fine in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34518	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34519	Thank you. I'm using the time of the DS parliamentary group. I understood the reading of both colleagues Bradic and the minister, and so we read with the question of when we submitted our amendment concerning our desire to be controlled every two years. But one question arises from this dialogue, so if the amounts are given, whether 2,000 euros, 1,000 euros, 8,000, 5,000 or some other figures, such that they meet continuously, it practically deposits funds. We ignored it because it is natural for someone who transports to have some of these sums of money on their business accounts and did not submit the amendment because it is a matter of the proposal's will whether to give the interpretations we heard from the minister or to be read as read by a colleague Bradic, to check the amounts for the day, and that we can hardly link that condition continuously, meaning that this condition is and that it has money sums as financial capacity. On the other hand, the reason for the amendment was, if there are no 2,000 euros for the job of transporting the burden. So, just to delay the suspicion that it is a single reading, it is not, but it can be established through dialogue because of the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34520	Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34521	I'll be very brief, first control can be carried out every day, every week, every year, and not just for two years. Secondly, that value can also be in the truck, the vehicle, the facility, it's all capital. Therefore, I return to Article 7. The last position, the word continuously meets the requirements.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34522	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34523	Thank you. The Minister has already given the answer, but I would once again state the basic reasons for not accepting this amendment, which is Article 7(2), which precisely and clearly defines that a company must continuously meet all the conditions laid down in Article 1(1) to (5) in order to operate. Therefore, amendments and how they are relevant when it comes to improving the text of the law, but it is about the fact that the law works in its entirety and that amendments, or members of the law, cannot be interpreted separately and read separately, but we need to read the whole law and observe the law in our comprehensive context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34524	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34525	I wanted to stop the discussion about this. Dear colleagues, to be clear, we suggest our vision of a solution to the problem. You, as a congregation majority, normally adopt what you answer politically in any way. What I told you yesterday, the government's authority is not true. By what Mrs. Mihajlovic now says, which I respect and believe when I discuss and discuss the laws on good intentions, the very work, I believe that bad intentions would not even sit here. But now whether money should be deposited on a day, whether it has to be kept or it can also be in the value of a rolling stock. Let's make a deal. It's not a problem for you to vote, the problem is that people who live out of it will have to have, if there are ten trucks, that there are 11,000 euros per day on the account or only on the day when they get a license or 11,000 euros, there may be 3,000 euros, and for the rest, here's worth a truck of 8,000. So let's translate that into real life. I know you 200 have me talking ten times and I'm aware of that, but I want to share with you what I think about it. You won't accept it, your will. What we agreed on, about how we work here and we make laws, the result can be seen when elections are made. Either you're gonna be right, so I'm gonna sit alone again or I'm gonna sit with 200 around me, and you're gonna sit like me, alone. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34526	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34527	Thank you. I'm using my authorized time. I had no intention of answering, but I see that my colleague Bradic, with the help of his fellow Member, has defended the amendment, but what has now asked me to report back. It's part of a sentence spoken by the minister, which is a dump in the trucks. I would like to be absolutely clear, what the Minister meant when it was part of a sentence that I was able to write down, and it says: trucking. Are funds deposited or, as counterpart Bradic said, part of the truck will be deposited, and for three trucks, 3,000, and for the other five will be in the rolling stock or what? Please let me be clear about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34528	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34529	Thank you. Once again, and I'm guessing for the last time in this amendment, because there's probably no need to stick around to this. So all that's mentioned today certainly belongs to what's specified in Article 7. Conditions to be met in order to guarantee some security and which may be financial for which we are discussing can now also apply to technical conditions relating to vehicles, as also specified in Article 7. I'd just like to ask that we understand each other and that we don't insist on discussing where there is definitely no place. If the only dilemma left is that, if I understand correctly, the proponents who read this law understand what we are discussing here now, I am convinced that the people who read this law will not then first come to an opportunity to meet the Syntagma middle course of the NBS on a day that and in that sense, there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34530	Thanks again. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34531	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, respected guests and guests from the ministry, respected Vice President of the National Assembly and chairing today's session, Mr. Arsic. There are four notes that I would like to make public on this amendment that we are on Article 9. The bill was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and myself. First of all, I am informing the MPs because I am sure that our guests and guests from the ministry and Minister Mihajlovic know that on these two draft laws, gentlemen, we have submitted a total of 19 amendments and that the honourable gentlemen, the MPs, of these 19 amendments, have been accepted 15 amendments. That's my reason to declare here another small victory of the opposition. We've contributed to making the bill that's being discussed here even better. One more thing, on the first note here to add, we have submitted to Mr Arsic in total for this year and three months, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I alone, 1,450 amendments, round numbers, respected gentlemen, and out of these 1,450 amendments, it has been accepted, Mr Arsic, to celebrate that and exactly 100 amendments. When it's passed on to percentages, Your Honors...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34532	Mr. Pavicevic, I would ask you to return to the amendment to Article 9 and I would only ask you, when you mention these figures, to consider how much wood must have been cut and papered for your amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34533	Here's an oak from Savinca, Mr. Arsic. There'll be time to talk about it today. I brought a piece of healthy and fine, but well, we have 19 amendments and we'll talk. I understood this note of yours as a suggestion that we might discuss it a little bit. Dear gentlemen, 6.9% accepted, which by analogy I make, by some logic I follow, means 6.9% support in the electoral body, gentlemen. Let me just say, just one day after Mr Babic announced here that we have a decline in support of the New Party, one performance, one speech by Mr Babic was enough for the New Party to grow by 1% when we talk about supporting the electoral body. Mr. Arsic, I suggest that Mr. Babic speak more and Mr. Stojmirovic and the other SNS gentlemen. That's one note. Second note, I don't understand why the amendment to article 9 of Mrs. Mihajlovic was not accepted. Let me explain this dilemma to Mr. Arsic. In the draft law, in Article 9, paragraph 1. The government has written finely – in terms of financial capacity, which is also a member's title, meets a company, another legal person or entrepreneur who settles his tax and business obligations and has capital and reserves in the amount of, so it is stated. It seems to us that gentlemen that this coin when it says – which settles its tax obligations, Mrs. Mihajlovic, deserves further precision and our only proposal for change is to add one word to specify what is written here, and we propose to add the word – it is regularly reconciled. So, that there is no dilemma now when it could be settled, but that, or an entrepreneur who regularly reconciles his tax, business obligations. In the light of why this amendment is not accepted, this is what it says – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the contract represents the consent of the will of the two parties, where as a bonding relationship it is not subject to the regulation of this bill. So this is how I conclude Mr Arsic's term – it is regularly enough for the government to say that it is regularly meant that it is not the subject of this bill. If I didn't understand something, and that's possible and I accept it, I'm not one of the MPs who thinks he's 100 percent right about everything he says, but I have a reasonable underlying dilemma about this. I would only ask the minister to explain how this term "regularly" to which we only further specify what the message is in this position, this member, the bill, cannot possibly become part of the law. So, precise financial performance obligations can't. That was Mr. Arsic's second note. The third note, relating to the amendment to Article 9, as well as what Mr Stojmirovic said earlier, Mr Arsic. Mr Stojmirovic says it is not appropriate for the opposition to propose more severe penalties for this amendment to this member of the bill. Why, Mr. Arsic? Mr Stojmirovic said -- the opposition is always expected to ease slightly. Why, gentlemen? It's not a matter of stricter criminal policy, a matter of position and opposition, because the position is instantaneous. When the New Party is in power, we consistently advocate a stricter criminal policy and, of course, we will now, as an opposition to the current, gentlemen, advocate a stricter criminal policy. The government can handle a milder criminal policy, and I'm asking you to respect a certain kind of argument here. Mr Stojmirovic, to be appreciated. We here consistently, from a bill of law to a bill of law, advocate a stricter criminal policy as an opposition, and that is legitimate until we win power. Once we win power, we continue to implement our policies consistently. Mr. Arsic, the last note, necessary when we have as a guest in our National Assembly, Minister Mihajlović, Mr. Zivkovic mentioned this, we agreed two days ago, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that we would bring you evidence of what is called the transport of cargo in domestic road traffic, so when it comes to that site of Bela Palanka, which is located at the former integration of the Eastern and Western Roman Empire, of course, early Christian basilica. We've submitted evidence that it's buried. You now offer evidence, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that it is not. Let's see that. Mr. Zivkovic gave it to you. When are you going to show us black on white that it's not buried? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34534	Thank you, colleague Pavicevic. I'm just asking you not to bring the logs to the Assembly in the future, please. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34535	As if you knew, it was black on white. Black on white. So this is a conservation of basilica made according to all the standards that can be done and in all the stages of the basilica conservation, one, the other, there's one 10 pictures here. What you delivered me, as a New Party, and you told me, of course, about certain things that were happening, and what certain individuals were doing, it's a matter of culture, and it's embarrassing, but it can't be put in the context that the state didn't do what the law said it could, which was whole, which was most effective, which was only possible. That's two different things compared to what I could see. So, this evidence of how canned basilica is available, is public and is not done or illegal, nor is basilica buried, as you say, but canned and that's my answer. I'll deliver these papers after the session. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34536	On what grounds are you on the line? (Zoran Zivkovic, from the city: The mention of the New Party. You're not a parliamentary group. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I am the president of the New Party and mentioning the party is the basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34537	Thank you very much. I know this isn't a topic, but since the Minister agreed to talk about it, I don't mind. I think it is a subject in the public of Serbia. So no conservation was performed. We have those photos, and we have them, and they don't prove anything. If you take a closer look at these photos, you can see the geotextile that the Niš Institute covered up the location a few weeks ago. It hasn't been moved since. That means no one came to move that geotextile, to make a conservation. The preservation is done by repairing the cracks of the damage in the walls, it can't last less than a few months. To be perfectly clear, the Low Office has proposed three solutions. The first solution is a pasarella, an overpass that would go over that basilica, which was usually done. There are many examples of Serbia where it has been done over the past period, and that was possible, not so expensive. The second option is to move a small location, or route, and that was possible and the most expensive variant was to move the whole basilica into the Red River, which is a place close, there was a license of the low eparchy, which cost 250 000 euros. So far from this 40 million. So that's the data, and I'm asking everyone to look at the film about it and the documentation that we've uploaded to the site. I don't understand whether from some past, what's the matter, Vice President Arsic is excited by the fission of wood. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34538	The word has a folk MP, Dr Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34539	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I look forward to the fact that a lot of our opposition colleagues' amendments have been accepted, especially amendments made by counterpart Pavicevic, because then I think the opposition is constructive and is working to improve legal proposals, which is normal. On the other hand, I wasn't talking about criminal policy, but I said it was normal to be lighter criteria for meeting the conditions set for getting a license, but it doesn't matter. As for support in the electoral body and your desire to get to 20% soon and be a position, the only way I can see, to imagine you being in that situation is to have more than 20 and 40 percent, respectively, to move to SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34540	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief and by amendment anyway. I'm not going out of the picture, and I'm not going to talk about things that will never happen, and that has to do with who comes to power. Since the amendment promoter has certain reserves according to the reasoning he received from the government, I can only conclude that he does not know what he suggested. Therefore, it does not appear that the amendment is exclusively to add the word "regular". The amendment's proposal also proposed that the words "contractual obligations" be introduced, so when it is determined, I urge it to take a look at the argument again. Maybe this will throw a new light at him.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34542	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34543	Thank you. It's a good custom, which is an accepted amendment that's technically and there's no doubt about it. The Minister has remained in my debt to respond to the previous amendment. Why is the word ‘regular’ in the context of ‘regular settlement of its taxes, business and contractual obligations’ not acceptable in the amendment to Article 9? If I can get an answer to that question, it would be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34544	The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34545	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Mihajlović, co-workers and colleagues, Article 30 speaks about the annual plan to distribute permits to domestic carriers and says: "The distribution of annual foreign licence contingents is carried out by the Ministry on the basis of the annual allocation plan (hereinafter: distribution plan). The following point: “The distribution plan is determined on the basis of specific criteria and consists of general and special work. “ The following point: ‘The general part of the distribution plan contains the basic data on the annual contingents of licences, as well as data of the importance of determining the specific part of the distribution plan. “A special part of the distribution plan shall be determined for each domestic carrier holding the transport licence referred to in Article 6(2) of this Act, in the following text - an individual plan. “ We propose that this position be changed and that the specific part of the distribution plan is determined for each domestic carrier holding the transport licence referred to in Article 6(1) of this Act, in the following text – a single plan, respecting the number of licences previously allocated and correctly used, the number of drivers, the quality of the rolling stock and the traffic achieved on the basis of the provision of freight services in international road transport. “ According to Article 4, new sections 5 to 7, which reads as follows: ‘The special distribution plan to the domestic carrier may only be granted a smaller number of licences per contigence than that used during the previous period by respecting regulations and business standards, i.e. in cases where there is a reduction in the annual contingent of licences or when a reduction in the number of drivers or a decline in the quality of the rolling stock, i.e. by means of the provision of freight services in international road transport is achieved. On the basis of an individual distribution plan, the ministry grants the permits to the domestic carrier by decision. The ministry must publish on its official website a decision on granting licences. “ We gave the following explanation. The amendment of the intervention in paragraph 4 concerns the determination of the criteria for the specific part of the allocation plan. This is important in order to maintain the quality of the Serbian transporter fleet that is above the European average. For example, according to German control authorities, a better rolling stock than our carrier has only more Swiss carriers. The only way to achieve more permits than the current number in cross-border traffic with other countries is to further improve the quality of the rolling stock. The non-selective allocation of licences also reduces the investment performance of domestic carriers, investing in new and better quality vehicles, is possible only when carriers can plan their business in a sustainable manner. The uncertainty regarding the number of licences can lead to the fact that the most competitive carriers give up planned investments and that the current high competitiveness of our carriers is being disrupted in a short time. Already now, more and more foreign carriers are forming daughters of Serbia's companies that are taking over the domestic capital market. I read the whole explanation so I wouldn't miss anything. I think it's a good idea for you to accept this amendment, past the arguments you're likely to have, so that I don't waste the time of the parliamentary group, one of you will read. I think it's good for this member to say this, because it gives safety to transporters to have certainty, the future of investing in a rolling stock and improving quality transport, not to depend on the will of individuals or, as a guess, I'm not saying that it's a rule, but possible abuses by those who issue those licences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34546	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34547	When we worked on the proposal for this law, we did not work with it, but we were just doing it in collaboration with all associations, i.e. representatives of transport companies and issuing permits, it was regulated by a regulation for several reasons, and it was very clearly defined how they are given, i.e. how certain licences, which, of course, are critical permits. I must first admit that there was no permit at all, and practically last August was not able to get any permits, because the regulation itself was not good, and there you are right, it was not best defined, nor could transport companies really be protected from it. The redefined regulation and that regulation and the new rules, practically, that we established last year, I said that when we discussed the law in principle, we came into a situation where we were given back over 60,000 unused permits. So, we have introduced order, we have introduced clear rules, clear criteria, and criteria by regulation, of course, are the long-term work of the transport companies themselves, their history, the quality of their rolling stock, the number of their vehicles, the coefficient of exploitation and their permits, and the work themselves. Therefore, it is sufficient by regulation to arrange it. On the other hand, it is also a fact that the actual activity of transport is dynamic, and if we put such a thing into the law, they would in some way bind themselves because of the period itself, i.e. the future, or the future work of transport companies. Believe me, they're protected enough, which is why we've done this law to allow transport companies to work, and on the other hand, and that the state benefits as well as the development of transport, but also in those other parts. Unfortunately, we cannot accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34548	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34549	I'll use my authorized time. Thank you. Exactly what it says in the explanation and what you just said assures me that our amendment should be accepted. You said the previous regulation was bad. That's why we wanted to admit or not, the essence of this law in terms of the interest of companies is exactly who gets the license, how much permission it's going to be. So that's the basic thing that interests companies and entrepreneurs, in which way and how they get their license. In order not to make bad regulations, untapped permits, we tried this way just to introduce some parameters into the law that would make it certain for those who ask for licenses to count on. One more thing, you said in your explanation, says – that regulation established a distribution mechanism that respects all the proposed criteria of the amendments through the parameters of the institutes which, etc. I think you should have accepted the amendment, but it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34550	Right to replication, Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34551	Once again I say, I absolutely think it is unacceptable to accept the amendment, the regulation is quite enough for such a way to distribute foreign international permits, because of another very important thing, it also writes to you in an explanation, but very clearly it says that the law does not guarantee the same amount of work every year in any of the following activities, nor in the activity of transport. What would that mean if, in every act of law, you guaranteed that someone would do the job in a certain amount? Which is just inadmissible. On the other hand, there were no deadlines in a regulation that existed before. They could have let themselves be taken, held back for years, not exploited. The amended regulation is very effective. So licenses are obtained and must be effectively used. So, you respect the possibility of obtaining a license. She has to be used. Not to mention, of course, that we changed the rules and the way they gave 3% of the permits. I am even more now and let's not even talk about the period until last year, until August of the month, but about a clear regulation that has clear criteria and what you have suggested I understand the reason why you proposed, but on the other hand everything is contained in the regulation, it is very clear how we do business now when we talk about issuing international licences, we are not talking about returned licences, but about how the permits are now used and returned. I also say that the regulation is not only good, but that it is quite enough when we speak from the point of view and from the transport companies themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34552	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34553	I thank the chairman. I've heard from you before, so there may be some things happening again, but I think that's good because of the public and all those who are interested in this topic. So, what the report says, first of all, is that we could not accept this amendment, because in the earlier report on the allocation of licences, it says that there was an inherited system of non-transparent extreme distribution of permits and that it was done in favour of individuals and their businesses, in principle that over the years there were a large number of untapped permits held in drawers and thus made it impossible for smaller carriers to put on this simple market competition. It is precisely the aim of this law that is to support competition, and much greater is the objective of curbing the grey economy and what the already respected minister has said is that it will not be able to happen now to this period of untapped permits because there are deadlines for more than 30 days to check whether they are regularly used and there are clear parameters and institutes that are mathematically measurable, which will equally apply to all. What is the objective of the law is simply to bring the competition back to life, that even smaller carriers get opportunities, and we are sure that it will not fail even those who have already placed themselves on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34554	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34555	Thank you. Another reason that is not among those mentioned in the Government's reply, which we point to, you know, whenever necessary. The amendment should not be accepted because of spelling shortcomings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34556	The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34557	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I apologize for reporting again, and I'm going to repeat some of my sentences from earlier. Respected Serbian citizens what I said yesterday, what I said earlier, the authority of the government is true, it is evidence. This whole dispute over our amendment to this article of the law comes down to the fact that what Mrs. Minister said that what we have proposed to our amendment is in the regulation and that there is no need to be in the law, and colleagues in the position are saying that the proposal is bad and that it should be rejected. The proposal is good and is in the regulation, colleagues, and so that there will be no repetition since the law goes with the regulation, the minister said it does not accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34558	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34559	I'm using the time of my authorised representative. I really can't figure out what's wrong with setting out the criteria for the last part of the plan to distribute the permits? I don't understand why MPs have anything to do with the precision of these parameters. I do not want to repeat what my colleague Bradic said – you can vote whatever you want, but our intention was to make it the most sensitive thing in this law as precise as possible and to explain it in detail. That's exactly the point. If you have something against it, if you trust regulations, nothing, your thing, vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34560	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34561	We probably didn't understand each other until the end, whether or not it was coming from the authorities' point of view, as we heard, if I said that in the last sentence of the amendment there were some spelling shortcomings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34562	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34563	I'll be very brief. The proposal is good and well-intentioned, and we stand behind it, but I've just stated why you can't take some cross-section of the state of transport over the years, to go back in time, because you've just given non-transparent permits and it wasn't a real situation. So some carriers didn't have the opportunity to get permission because the licenses were on drawers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34564	National MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, Article 37 speaks of specific provisions on the domestic carrier, and we have suggested that Article 37(4) deletes, with a reason that we believe that in carrying out the transport of goods in international traffic in the vehicle, the documentation prescribed by international rules should be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34566	Members of the 38th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34567	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President, Mr Arsic, Honored Mrs Mihajlovic, Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, Amendment submitted to Article 38 by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I am one of 15 of our accepted amendments to these two draft laws, gentlemen. I just want to remind here, first of all, the MPs, that by accepting the amendment, one good bill, which we said in the principle debate, has become a little bit better, gentlemen. But on this amendment, I must direct one intervention, one note to announce to our chairman today's session, Mr. Arsic, who asked me here what this log I'm holding here. Mr. Arsic... . [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34568	Please, about the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Let me answer you about the amendment. On the occasion of the amendment? Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34569	The amendment has been accepted, Mr. Arsic, and for you on the proposal for a freight transport law in road traffic, and I remind you that a road is being made here at Savinca, and that otherwise it is one of... . [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34570	I beg you for the amendment, Mr. Pavicevic. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It is one of the additions to the argument, that it is one of the six centuries old oaks. I don't see the oak in the amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: You say oak, and I say good. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34571	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, and chairing today's session, Mr Arsic, respected Mrs Mihajlovic, distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, the amendment to Article 40, Mr Arsic, who was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I, Mr Arsic, at the proposal for a law on the transport of goods in road transport is one of 15 accepted amendments, Mr Arsic, on two draft laws that defends Minister Mihajlovic on behalf of the government today in the amendment debate. I'd like to pick up where I left off on the previous amendment, Mr. Arsic, on Article 38. I see you're getting ready to turn off my microphone. Now I'm talking about an amendment to Article 40, but I'm saying, I'm getting attached to the previous amendment and I'm using that forbidden word, Mr. Arsic, oak. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34572	I will read your amendment: "In Article 40, paragraph 5, after saying, 'in the Republic of Serbia', it is added to a comma." If you want to talk about the commas, I don't mind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34573	It's stuck like an oak, Mr. Arsic. And I hope you'll let me explain that one attitude here, Mr. Arsic. Look out, we have Mrs. Mihajlovic's guests. We're talking about the bill. Some amendments have been accepted. Some of them aren't. But how, Mr. Arsic, as a People's MP, should I not ask one question about this amendment to this bill by a minister who is responsible for this issue of oak, Mr. Arsic? I asked you because you declared this a log. And I tell you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that this is a good six-century oak. He couldn't be saved. For centuries, the ancient Roman basilica could not be preserved. Well, what do we do with cultural goods, gentlemen? Is that supposed to be worth our attention here in the assembly, Mr. Arsic, or not? Anyway, when you mention the cultural good, you turn off the microphone. As Mr. Becic does occasionally, Mr. Arsic. I ask you to take part in the debate over this amendment, to defend Minister Mihajlović if you think you should, and if not, that the minister says not only why the basilica is buried, because the photographs, Mrs Mihajlovic, which you have shown, are not evidence. We gave you evidence that it was buried, and here I have proof that six centuries old oak was destroyed. So how, gentlemen, the one who designed that road couldn't during the project, prepare the main project, to predict it, to protect what was worth, to make some kind of review, which doesn't have to cost much, dear Mr. Babic. Can't we agree, at least in the Assembly, to protect our cultural goods? All cultural goods, not cutting them, burying them, destroying them, and then talking like we canned them, Mr. Arsic. We didn't. That's what we have to keep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34574	Mr. Pavicevic, I have no need to defend Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, because she can defend herself. What I have to take care of is the application of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106 says: “The speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. ” You have a bill, you have an amendment to Article 40, which is added to the code. "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure." I haven't broken any of that. Further: “During the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, there is no allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. ” None of the MPs gave you a pass. I let you go, I even knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure, so instead of two minutes, you spoke four. And now I would also remind you of Article 109, which says: “The warning is made to the MP who approached the speaker without the permission of the National Assembly President, who speaks before he has asked and received his word, who, despite the warning of the president or the chairman of the Assembly, speaks of a question that is not on the agenda. ” Mr. Pavicevic, I've been extremely tolerated and I'm not going to give you a warning right now. Even more, I think I deserve a warning, but it's gonna have to be some other chairman doing what I let you do for four minutes instead of two. But please, in future, follow the Rules of Procedure in those frameworks. I also accept your political struggle and agenda theme, but somehow coordinate it, please. According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP is Dr Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34575	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Article 107 has been injured, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. You've made it perfectly clear that the injured members were 106 and 109. I'm talking about Article 107's injury. First, an oak, by itself, is a tree, a plant can't be culturally good. Secondly, Minister Mihajlovic offered valid evidence that the famous basilica was preserved and protected from all construction works carried out on the road. I would like to remind the distinguished Mr Pavicevic and his party chief, Zivkovic, that this Assembly is also a cultural good. On October 5, 2000, what is now called the House of the National Assembly was called the Federal Assembly. Now, in that Federal Assembly, I don't know if you were Mr. Pavicevic at the time, but Mr. Zoran Zivkovic certainly was, the mass of people fell, she burned, she took many cultural goods from this building that was erected in 1936. Construction began during the life of King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. Unfortunately, because the Ustasha killed him in Marseille in 1934, he failed to see the completed building, but therefore the DOS gentlemen managed to burn thoroughly and rob a very significant cultural heritage from the period of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, so when you show that little tree...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34576	Time, fellow Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34577	... That oak, believe me, a much more significant cultural good was taken by your boss of the party than it was by a piece of oak.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34578	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34579	You injured an article in 103, the chairman, which you allowed the previous speaker to abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, not even abused it as a replica, but as a small ignorant stands for bringing out absolute untruths. So you should have stopped him and put him back in line, where he belongs. (Zoran Babiæ, from the site: And the Assembly is not burned? A few explanations, now that I've got the word. Mr. Pavicevic said that this oak was good, not culturally good. This should be distinguished and it is learned from the knowledge of nature and society, so it is a primary school. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: He said – culturally well. ) The other thing, culturally well, of course, is this building and should be respected, on October 5, 2000, which I was proud of, I was, of course, present here, no one from DOS burned this building, nor did he steal it, some people, some fat, some with express attributes on their faces, who burned, carried bags and I don't know what, but they weren't people who belonged to DOS. It's a historical truth that everyone knows. (Alexander Martinovic, from the place: Who were they belong to? ) After that, by donation of the Greek government above all, but also donations from other places, this building was restored to the splendor that it had long ago. Thus, no one had a program or idea of burning this building, nor would it ever be and thus differing democratic forces from the quasi of advanced radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34580	Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Martinovic, I am trying to keep this session in those frameworks of the Rules of Procedure, and when it is a member of 103, which you and one and the other, fellow MPs, pointed out as if I had hurt the presidency, so that I would also ask fellow MP Zoran Babic, as head of the Parliament club, and fellow Members of Zoran Zivkovic, as president of the New Party, to discipline their MPs, otherwise I will have to apply the provisions of Article 112. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34581	Regarding the amendment, primarily for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and for all other MPs. It is one of the amendments that has been accepted, and what has been accepted and amended in Article 40 of the Law, and compared to the amendment that you have put in place, is just in Article 40 of Article 5 after saying, "in the Republic of Serbia" it is added to a point. So we added that comma and that's why this amendment was accepted. He's not the only one of this kind. Most of the amendments that came from the MPs are of a technical nature. Thank you very much, but just so you know what the nature of the amendment was. As for oak and basilica, I am fully responsible and satisfied that these problems have been solved after more than two years of non-solving. I'm glad we're going to continue to work on the highways, I'm glad we're going to solve the stone-cutting business, and I'm glad we're going to have Corridor 10 and Corridor 11. It is in the interest of the country's development.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34582	Thank you. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34583	Thank you. I will also use the time of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, as it is a very interesting member and an amendment whose acceptance will require subsequent amendments. Here's the thing. In its three positions, Article 43 speaks of inspection control. In the second position, which is changed by the amendment that my colleagues have submitted and I say: “Inspection is carried out over the prescribed documentation of the domestic and foreign carrier, transport users, domestic and foreign companies, other legal persons, entrepreneurs or natural persons (hereinafter referred to as the inspection facility). “ What is an inspection facility? Documentation. We agree here in this position, because the inspection surveillance facility cannot be any of the documents listed, which are subject to inspection, according to the beginning of the sentence in paragraph 2. Therefore, inspection supervision shall be carried out over the prescribed documentation. What's our amendment? That instead of in the bracket part – in the following text: the inspection control facility states: ‘(the economic operator)’. That's the best we could come up with. It's not ideal, and now I'm going to tell you why. Part of the sentence in brackets – an inspection inspection facility, appears as a peripheral over Article 49, and that Article 49 is related to Article 43, and therefore, I think, the imminent acceptance of this amendment, with or without correction, would require subsequent amendments. It shows in the perimeter – the obligations of the inspection control facility to the inspector. How can the paperwork have obligations to the inspector? If it is not documentation, how are people subject to inspection, regardless of whether they are authorised persons on behalf of a company, are they authorised persons on behalf of a foreign carrier, how can these people be objects, and if people are objects, why are they referred to in paragraph 2 as inspection controls carried out over the prescribed documentation? He can't do both. I understand that members refer to people, of course, who are obliged to file to the inspector for oversight, but that's not what the law says. The law, in this view of Article 43, which we have submitted to the amendment, states that inspection controls are carried out over the prescribed documentation. Article 49 of the first sentence states that the inspection inspection facility is required to enable the inspector to carry out an uninterrupted inspection inspection. How, if the object is documentation, how can the paperwork prevent the inspector? This isn't the first law where one is thought and another is written. I think it will be the worst, if we leave one thought, another written, and the third is applied to the documentation or procedures of the domestic foreign carrier, the transport user, the domestic foreign company, the other legal person, the entrepreneur or the natural person. Or we'll make it clear here that they're an inspection facility. But then we have a question about how faces can be objects of inspection? They can be what they are or can be an object because of what they do, but they can't be themselves. If anything else were to occur, I would try to make amendments that would quite unequivocally explain that it is the documentation prescribed by this law, that it is a regulation of the obligation, that all those who act before inspection in the name of the domestic foreign carrier, the carrier user, the domestic company, the other legal person, the entrepreneur or the natural person, because they are obliged to allow inspection of all prescribed documents. But I know how to read it, because it's not my first, and probably not the last, regulation I'm dealing with. An even more vague second position in Article 49, which is consequent to the words, in brackets, in Article 43(2), in the following text, is the inspection control facility, which says that the inspection control facility is required to act on the orders of the inspector and carry out the required inspection measures, where, once again, I return you to the definition of what is, over which inspection supervision is carried out, of the prescribed documentation. So, are we going to accept the amendment that we have proposed or are you going to say that I alone have a dilemma about what the inspection facility is? Anyway, in one case or another, I'd be glad to have no administrative dispute here, no lawyer, no inspector has a problem in law enforcement, because that's the point. It can be linguistically solved in the voting day, it can be intervened and left unequivocally that the object of inspection supervision is economic operators or, as the physical person appears, so I said, I did not find an ideal, absolutely ideal form, but I do not know better, and something had to open the dialogue on this. So, you have every right to tell me, when I say a natural person that can't stand an economic operator but can if a physical person implies the same thing as an entrepreneur or to make changes to article 49, which is clearly referred to as people as an inspection facility. Which he can't do either. You can only do what people do. It needs to be explained somewhere and left without the possibility of creating any confusion. This isn't just a language mix-up. This is the kind of ambiguity in the texts produced in many other laws many bad consequences needlessly, only that we made little effort to explain what is considered not clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34584	Thank you. Parliamentarians Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted together to the 46th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. I ask the authorising officer to plead on this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34585	We agree with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34586	Thank you. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has declared that the amendment is in line with the constitutional and legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. To the title above the 57th and Article 57th Amendment, MPs Aleksandar Senić and academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slbododan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic together. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34587	We have submitted the amendment to the Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, to the name and to Article 57. The name is – cooperation with chambers of commerce and representative associations of carriers. Well, then he says -- a member of the decision-making process in their jurisdiction that affects the carrying of freight in domestic and international road transport. The ministry will co-operate with commercial chambers and representative associations of carrier employers. We have suggested that, in the term above Article 57, the word "representative" be deleted, and in Article 57, the word "representative" and the word "employer" to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34588	Thank you. Members of the 57th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Janko Veselinovic submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic, submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Janko Veselinovic submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Janko Veselinovic submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Professor Janko Veselinovic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojljkovic jointly submitted to the 64th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34589	I thank the chairman. I called because there are going to be some changes like this later, so just to say for the first time, this amendment changes Article 64, which refers to a deadline for the full application of this law. This is very important to say that the Law on the Transport of Freight and Transport of Passengers was regulated by two laws dating back to 1995 and 1998. They have suffered some kind of alterations but are certainly that the transport has changed significantly, especially the transport of cargo. It is therefore very important that this law enters into force as soon as possible. The Republic of Serbia also took the obligation provided for by the Charter of Quality for International Transport of Freight, signed on 28 May, where the conditions for licensing of carriers and the smooth operation of transport must be met by 1 January 2018. For this reason, this law will come into force after 18 months with full application.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34590	Thank you. Parliamentarians Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted together to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34591	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Mihajlović, thank you for accepting the amendments of my distinguished colleague Ivana Stojljković and my amendments. I would also, in the style of a respected colleague, inform the MPs and the National Assembly, inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, if I hadn't been as valuable as some other MPs, at least not by gross and by the number of amendments submitted and submitted, but that I was much more quality and more efficient. Because in this tenth meeting of the National Assembly, I submitted 84 amendments to this session of the National Assembly, of which the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted 78, which makes it, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, 92.8%. The percent of 92.8 support, not mine, is important to me where I belong, and I belong to one big, biggest family, the SNS family, and that's SNS support, but that's not all. For this session that we are slowly bringing to an end, I have tabled four amendments to this legislative proposal, as well as two amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. I have handed over six more amendments and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all amendments have been accepted. So I can announce that at this point in my humble action in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that in the previous year and a few days I have submitted 90 amendments, and that of these 90 amendments 84 has been accepted, which means 93.34% support. It is only, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, that by doing this opposition, in just a few days of this session, the support of the SNS has increased by more than half a percent in just a few days. Now, of course, I'd be more serious. There was a lot of talk, Mrs. Mihajlovic, and a few days ago in the debate in principle and today in particular. Some people have brought in, as the esteemed colleague Arsic said, and some logs here, and I ask them, did they know and have heard of the places of Savinac until a few days ago? No, they're not. Did they go to the basilica? No, they're not. They didn't even know it existed. They knew and heard about the oak, I'm as sure as all the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I'm sure they knew what the basilica was, but they knew that they were going around and they were looking for it and they were taking care of it, and then when they were in power, when they were presidents of the government, so they could fence that oak, so they could take care of it, so maybe that basilica could in that period when they were in power, and they didn't know where the basilica was, or where the oak was, or what it meant. Maybe it would be a tourist attraction by now. Maybe the ones who have designed the road by now would have moved it somewhere else. No, they're not. But for day-to-day political reasons, they'll be painted next to a oak tree they didn't know where it was or what it was. It will be taken next to a basilica they didn't even know existed just for daily political reasons. The preservation of goods, the greatest good, ladies and gentlemen, and this is my humble opinion, the greatest good we have to protect and preserve is life in Serbia. We're free of oak, we're free of basilica if we don't save people, and we're only going to save people by giving them jobs, which will allow them to work, to live, to create their families, to raise their children, to teach their schools, to educate and educate them, to stay here, not to look at the path of borders and the way beyond our country's borders. And how can we do that? Only if we cross our country with good infrastructure. Let's do what the Government of the Republic of Serbia does, and I'll let you know that only on Corridor -10 are currently doing shares of 85 and 80 kilometers, which, from the other 138 kilometers on other sections and other corridors, is now nearly 300 kilometers ending. That's the way people are gonna go. (shutling in the hall) What are we going to do about the chairman now?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34592	Since I can't turn on the microphone, I'm taking a five-minute break. I'm sorry, I'd like your attention that all MPs can hear me, since I can't turn on the microphone, I'm setting a break for up to 13.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34593	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, on the draft law. You have received a report from the committees responsible, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34594	Thank you. So, we have submitted an amendment to Article 20, which says: “The transport licence is issued to a company, to another legal person or to an entrepreneur, which meets the conditions of business reputation, financial capacity, professional training, rolling stock, driver, real and stable seat.” We have suggested that under point 2) "financial skills", add "operational and financial capacity", and point 6) the word "stable" is replaced by the word "permanent". The amendment comes from the fact that it is not enough for the carrier to have financial capacity alone. It is also necessary to have the operational capacity, to organise the transport of passengers in accordance with normal business standards. The operational capacity also includes knowledge of passenger transport regulations, especially in international line and out-of-line traffic, which includes knowledge of international rules and rules relating to the transport of passengers. The second part of the amendment represents what we have proposed as a termological correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34595	Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34596	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored President Mrs Gojkovic, Honored Mrs Mihajlovic, Honored Guests and Guests from the Ministry, Amendment to Article 21, submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic and I was not accepted. I think it should be accepted and we have an unusual situation and I think we need to sort it out somehow. An amendment to Article 21 submitted by Mr Babic and Mrs Stojiljkovic, but Mr Babic and Mrs Stojiljkovic's amendment does not correct what was necessary to fix. What was necessary to fix? So we have in point (1) of point (1) of view all subpoints. The need for change to adjust the corresponding drop. For example, if it stays the way it is, but if Mr Babić and Mrs Stojiljkovic's amendments are accepted, we will have in the law a formulation: "The person who is employed is not legally convicted". He can't. So “a person who has been convicted by law ” cannot, then, be able to face it. Our proposal is precisely to use the corresponding drop, and then we adjusted the contents of all four sub-points under Article 21, paragraph 1, to this change of face. I believe, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that it is necessary to accept this amendment and if that happens, then I would like to inform the MPs present here now, that it would be 16 accepted amendments to the New Party MPs, since 19, how many we have submitted them. If not accepted, we have one terrible mistake in the content of the bill in Article 21 and I don't know how it will stay that way, even with the change proposed by Mr Babic and Mrs Stojljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34597	Parliamentarians Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic together submitted the 21st amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34598	Article 22 reads: "The conditions regarding financial capacity meet the company, the second legal entity or entrepreneur if it has capital and reserves of: 1) at least 9,000 euros for the first bus and 5,000 euros for each subsequent bus in dinar equivalent at the middle rate of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of submission of an application for an international transport licence and 2) at least 2,000 euros for the first bus and 1,000 euros for each subsequent bus in dinar equivalent according to the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia on the day of application for a domestic transport licence." In order not to repeat what we were talking about road transport, we added a new member who says, "The ministry is closer to establishing a way of proving financial capacity," and you replied to Mrs. Minister, i.e. Your associates - the amendment is not accepted because there is credible evidence in the business of economic operators to determine this fact, and therefore it is unnecessary to prescribe a way of proving financial capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34599	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34600	Comparing the previous law and this law, in a section relating to the conditions for the issue of a licence, your arguments in rejecting our amendment to a similar member were that in the Law on the Transport of Freight there is a final position in Article 7. which says – a domestic company, another legal person or entrepreneur must continuously meet the conditions of all these points. In this law, in the law that we are currently considering, there is no such clause. Repeat the question asked by my colleague, Blagoja Bradic, in the previous exhibition – are the sums that are designated as deposits or reserves for the number of buses for domestic and international traffic that are currently being deposited, i.e. possessed when the license is issued and are no longer valid, or is it as said by the minister that part of these funds can be counted on on buses? I'm interested in what's guaranteed that the financial capacity of a company will be constant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34601	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34602	Article 25 speaks of the conditions relating to the rolling stock to be met by a commercial company, another legal entity or undertaking if owned or leased by: 1) at least one registered bus for the operation of domestic extra-line transport, 2) at least three registered buses for the operation of domestic liner transport, 3) at least two registered buses for the operation of international extra-line transport produced after 1 October 1993, 4) at least three registered buses for the operation of international liner transport produced after 1 October 1993. A company, another legal person or entity may lease buses for a period of at least six months if it meets the conditions laid down in Article 1(1) of this Article. So if there's at least one registered bus owned, I guess. The lease agreement referred to in Article 3 shall be certified by the authority responsible for the overu if one of the Contracting Parties is a natural person. We have given the amendment at point 3) and 4), where we say – as regards international transport, at least two registered buses for carrying out international extra-line transport for which, from year of manufacture to year of issuing a transport licence, there have been no more than 15 years and 4) at least three registered buses for carrying out international liner transport for which more than 15 years have passed since the year of production until the year of licensing. We gave this for the reasons we believe, although you said in the principle debate that these are international norms, standards, that this is how 25% of the transporters, if I remember correctly to put them in trouble, because they have older vehicles. But if we go on the other side about safety, even though there is a need for vehicle registration to meet the rigorous conditions of the technical examination to be registered, but you'll agree with me, if the younger vehicles are, they're safer and better to transport passengers. If we have an apriori wish and intend to first look at the users of services, and that those who provide services must meet the rigorous conditions for users of services, i.e. Travellers were safe in that traffic, I think it's logical that, apart from what the EU's framework values are, we can have a request for vehicles to be younger and I don't understand if you're here for international traffic that vehicles are twenty-two, three years old, what about domestic traffic? This means that in urban transport you can drive anything that can pass a technical examination. I repeat, it is possible to pass the vehicle's technical inspection. The second question is whether we want the conditions of transport to be quality or whether we are going to look to meet the needs of the carrier in terms of investment, if I put it nicely, when buying the bus. I think our goal is to raise the standard of service, and the services provide, as we advocate the market economy of those who can compete on the market. We said, we agreed that transportation of passengers and goods is an economic category that is not a social category, so I ask you to reconsider and possibly accept our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34603	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34604	I've got a few things to repeat from the principle debate, but I'll add a few more things. When we put a member like this into the law, that is, when we proposed it and put it in 1993, I did say it was, of course, from the Interbus International Agreement, and now we're going to exclude this member of the law from traffic 25%. If with the amendment proposal, or if we accepted your amendment, we would rule out, I think that you got it in an explanation, we would rule out over 50% of the total number of buses in Serbia. So, if we accept your amendment and of course it is in the first place security, but of course the conditions of the economy and the second thing no one can, especially the buses, is such rigorous control as to the regularity of the bus, it's in the jurisdiction of the MUP, but as you know, the technical examination has to go through, and that's what's most important to talk about security itself. I'm not sure your amendment would help even increased security, nor would it increase the possibility of a transport economy developing in the field of road traffic, and I hope you'd understand that, and here they're adding me, but I already said that in the principle debate, that we're not talking about how much we'd open the market then, so for the entry of some other foreign companies, but admit why we wouldn't let our transport companies work here as much as possible, if they're technically correct. So we're already excluding 25% of this member of the law, by accepting your amendment 50% of the transport companies, or the bus would be out of traffic. Fifty percent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34605	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34606	Thank you. I think we understand each other very well, and I'm glad we're doing this, I'm thinking of this very important topic. Well, you said you'd turn 50% of the bus off traffic, not shut down companies. You know, I come from the private sector. So, in my line of work, I have to adapt to the regulations that apply to my business. If the legislator says that buses can be over 20 years old, the normal me that I'm investing will be watching me go cheap in the investment, because it's important to me to exploit. It's a means to work. It's a means to work. The quality of the means of work depends on the standards we prescribe. I say, it's okay. If we want to have a passenger first, comfort, air-conditioned bus, I don't know, whatever that job is wearing as an integral part of it, then let's ask that the buses be younger. So it's going to be normal, both of them technically correct, and these are going to be more modern, safer, they're going to have airbags in their seats, whatever, that something that's wearing a more modern bus and a more modern bus, let's just accept this, and that someone is going to be forced to invest in doing business, so everyone in business has to meet certain conditions and have to invest in doing that job. I'm saying, on condition that we're in the best interest of a passenger and if we want him to have a safer, more comfortable, more quality transport over that firm he uses when transferring from point A to point B. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34607	The word is Branka Karavidić. The minister spoke according to the amendment, just to listen to the letter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34608	Thank you, Madam President. I'll use the time of the authorized representative. I'm going to mention some of the facts of the principle debate one more time. I really think this law is comprehensive, and I really don't think this member is simply following the trend of this law. I suppose it's very difficult to find the right measure between passenger safety and the number of companies to deal with passenger transport. However, I cannot agree with you at all that in this case we should put the safety of the passengers in a different way. I just can't shake that impression. I repeat, the law is comprehensive, precise, there is not much room for objections. However, this solution roses this law. I would also agree with my colleague Bradic that whoever wants to deal with passenger transport must be serious, not anyone, because it is people's lives, right, especially on international lines, you will agree. They're not driving a hundred, 200 kilometers, they're driving thousands of miles, and I ask you once again to consider and accept this amendment of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34609	Minister, short, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34610	Yeah, very short. I'm just asking you not to interfere with the security issue and not to talk about road safety, that it will be compromised if the border is put in 1993 because the security of the particular bus is determined solely and exclusively and based solely on a technical examination that is very, very strict, not to say restrictive. So if something in this law is very important, it's safety first.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34611	Thank you. The word is Blagoje Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34612	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, I think we've had a good time with each other in the discussion we're having here, and I think this might just be a good thing. It is normal for the technical examination of carriers to be rigorous and certain standards must be met for the safety of vehicles in traffic. I was talking about that the quality of transport in addition to the safety that all those who pass the technical examination is certainly better, better quality when the vehicle is younger. Not more than 15 years old than we've said, but that he's 23 years old, not saying safety is compromised. I'm talking about the quality of transport if we're looking for the passenger to be in the first place and to make his committee in transport better and better quality. So, that was the essence of my story by counting that traffic police and people doing technical checks, all about safety work under the law, but on the other hand we prescribe those laws. We prescribe whether the vehicle will be 23 years old or 15 years old, as we suggested. I say from my job. In my line of work, I will try as someone who invests in this activity that I do to keep the equipment within the limits of what the law says. Normally, I'll see that the equipment is quality and that if I can buy cheaper, I'll buy the same service. If the legislator obliges me to have something more modern and modern, I have to fulfill it in order to be able to deal with it, and then the client is in a better position if he has a more comfortable chair or whatever that means.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34613	The word has the People's MP Branko Karavdidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34614	I'll use the time of an authorised representative, just one sentence. A technical examination is an important thing and all carriers, i.e. all vehicles pass a technical examination, but you can't convince me that it's no safer and more technically correct vehicle that's 22 years old than the one who's 15 years old. What is the probability that a 15-year-old vehicle is more invalid than this other one?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34615	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinovic, Branka Karavidic, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Blagoje Bradic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34616	Thank you. Article 26 says - The conditions regarding the driver are met by a company, another legal entity or entrepreneur if there is in a working relationship the number of drivers not less than the number of buses entered in a written application for the issue of a licence for domestic and international line transport. We have suggested that I do not read the whole article, that in this first position the words "not smaller" should be replaced by the words "by at least 10% higher". The attitude would then read - The conditions regarding the driver meet the company, the other legal entity or the entrepreneur if there is in a working relationship the number of drivers that are at least 10% higher than the number of buses entered in the written request, etc. We believe that the number of drivers in a work relationship must be greater than the number of buses. In view of the restrictions on mandatory rest of the driver, we consider it unrealistic that the carrier employs only one driver per bus. Most bus drivers provide more quality and safer transportation of passengers, and this excludes the possibility that due to lack of driver, annual rest, sick leave, whatever, the carrier will be in a position to force drivers to work through the law prescribed time during the day. I think you should accept our proposal to have more drivers than there are vehicles, although your story on the day we spoke in principle was that those who go international transport meet additional conditions, that they must have two drivers who drive six hours, so they sleep, whatever the law says, but also then we have a violation of the law if one of the drivers gets sick or is on vacation, and the carrier has an obligation. I think it's better to have more drivers than there are buses and our proposal makes sense. Given, here, look at the driver's number, let's say, while the state-owned companies were carriers, how many drivers there were, and how many buses they had. Well, it's some experience we should apply and still look at safety, especially of passengers, who won't be threatened like this, but it's safer if there are more drivers in the company who can replace those who are away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34617	Thank you. By the way, you've wasted your time with the group, so I can let you know. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34618	Thank you, Madam President. I'll use the time of an authorised representative, if he has one. In Article 28(4), otherwise, Article 28 provides for the way in which a licence is obtained in relation to the Ministry and in Article 3 is said - The Ministry shall adopt a solution which rejects the application for a transport licence, if it is established that the applicant does not fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 20 of this Act, and the final position of this Member shall say - The decision in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article is final. Our idea was to add at the end of the sentence: “A administrative dispute can also be started against him. ” We actually think it is necessary that an interested party who is not satisfied with the decision can initiate a administrative dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34619	Thank you. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34620	Thank you. A member of the text of the draft law on which my colleagues and I have submitted the amendment defines what happens when changes in the data on the conditions under which the licence was issued and what are the obligations of the person to whom the licence has been issued, as well as the Ministry. The first position of that member in the text of the Bill – The Carrier is obliged to change the data on the conditions on which the transport licence was issued within 15 days of the date of the change of notification of the Ministry. We have suggested that, after saying, “from the day of the change,” we add a comma and a word: “written by means”, because the Ministry’s notification of the change of data implies some of the essential data that will produce consequences, whether to reduce the right to the number of copies issued, whether there will be a return of the licence, etc. So, all communication between the Ministry and the licensed carrier is done, of course, by written means, if it is electronic, it is also understood that, of course, by written means, but we just wanted it to be clear that in those 15 days from the day the changes occurred, it is transportable to notify the Ministry by written means, that the Ministry could proceed further according to paragraphs 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34621	Thank you. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34622	Thank you. Article 30 speaks about what happens if the carrier has a problem with a lost, stolen or destroyed license. We have consistently intervened again because, in this case, the position of Article 1 of the 30th put out – The carrier is obliged to issue a lost, stolen or destroyed transport licence, i.e. a copy of the licence invalidated in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" within eight days of the day of the licence being lost, stolen or destroyed, and to notify the Ministry in writing. So, in the previous case, we had only to notify the Ministry, telephone, text, email, as he already wants to inform the Ministry, and how this information is delivered, and in this case writtenly. The words: "written by way of writing" we have corrected countless times in laws, so here, as well as in the previous article, we ask that, in the same time, the Ministry be informed, as it is the only way. You can't tell the Ministry in writing, but in writing. Since, in this case, in writing, if you accept the amendment, the Ministry of License is informed of a license that has been lost, stolen or destroyed, we consider it necessary to add words to the previous member - by written means to inform about the change in the conditions for which the licence was granted, to leave out any ambiguity about the communication between the Ministry and the carrier.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34623	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 41st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34624	The amendment to Article 41 has been submitted by my colleagues and I because of the position that the whole law should discuss ownership and lease. Part of the debate on whether or not the lease was exchanged in the principle debate and some of the topics were clarifications, and some remained. In the proposed text of the draft law, Article 41 states in the first position – The licence for the provision of stationary services shall be issued with a period of validity of five years. We agree with that attitude. In the same Article in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, point 2 in general reads – The licence for the provision of cellular services is issued to a company, to another legal person or to an entrepreneur if it has: 1st business reputation, 2nd place on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, 3rd place owned by a bus station that meets the conditions laid down by this law and regulations laid down under this law and 4th outstanding monetary obligations towards domestic carriers in a manner prescribed by law governing the time limits for the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions. The amendment refers to point 3, where after saying "owned", we add: "or lease", therefore, a bus station that meets the conditions prescribed by this law. The proposal is firmly on the grounds that the lease is not available, however, will be a problem with the application of the firm position in local self-government where local self-governments have the ownership of a bus station and have lease contracts. From our point of view, it is absolutely equal to having a firm view that no law is in place because of the experience of renters to provide cell services where there were non-payments, bad business, lawsuits, but it is not the subject of this law. So it's not a guarantee of good service if someone owns a bus station that will also be a quality cell service. This will prevent local self-governments from carrying it in the way it has been done so far, or we will have to open up a problem solution to what with local self-governments that bus stations have now owned. It is likely that many of us no longer remember, long ago a law was passed that all, therefore, state authorities, local self-government, autonomous provinces were obliged to report what their property was. It's not about this member. So it was seen that there were local self-governments that owned a bus station. I think this firm stance that there are no leases in the law will create problems in the functioning of some local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34625	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34626	I thought there was enough explanation, but then when you mentioned first of all local self-government, because I agree with you that it has to be maintained primarily the continuity of providing services, especially when we talk about transport services, that's what's most important. Reality has shown serious problems when we have a lease. I mean, in an explanation, you all have that. But what you need to know as information, from the total number of bus stations, is 127,8% is in the lease. How is he going to solve that 8% now? It will be resolved by being able to establish their own company of capital, i.e. a limited liability company, because you believe that this is a much better and more efficient way to ensure the continuity of services than to keep the lease, because the disputes that existed between the owners and the tenants ultimately led to the fact that the services were not done and that the end-users in fact suffered the most. That was the reason why we didn't allow the lease, and on the other hand by this percentage it's clear that it's not mostly in local self-government, but that we're talking about 8% of the bus stations that are leased.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34627	Thank you, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Becic, welcome this morning, chaired by Mr. Arsic, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry, I think, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that it is necessary to accept our amendment to Article 42. I'll try to explain in two minutes why it needs to be accepted. It cannot, Madam Mihajlovic, be left with the following formulation at one point with several points of this bill. Here's how the formulation goes. It says – the condition regarding the business reputation of the member and that point 2 (1) is fulfilled by the company, the other legal entity or the entrepreneur, if the responsible person in the company in question is not legally convicted. Well, he can't, gentlemen. He cannot – the responsible person in a business society is not convicted. It can – the responsible person is not rightly convicted. We have received an explanation, Mrs Mihajlović – the amendment is not accepted because in the context of the provisions the words are used correctly, in accordance with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. Mrs. Mihajlovic, obviously not. Please, as you have done in 15 cases of our 15 amendments that have been accepted on these two draft laws, to accept this, Mrs. Mihajlović, as the sixteenth and that you do not mind that when this amendment is accepted it will mean that the New Party has gone to 7% of the accepted amendments, or 7% of the support in the electoral body. It's all right, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, dear Mr. Becic, and here's Mr. Babic to hear, who has much against it, but by doing one piece and contributing, I think, here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34629	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The 42nd Amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs. Mihajlović, would you like to make a statement? Here you are, Professor Zorana Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34630	Thank you very much. We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34631	Thank you. I find that the proposaler's representative has accepted the amendment. National MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 48th amendment. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34632	Thank you. Article 48 says – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce prescribes general conditions for bus stations. We have suggested that the Serbian Chamber of Commerce be deleted from this member and that it be done by the Ministry. You replied that the amendment is not accepted because the law governing the state administration provides that the public authority holder is required to obtain an opinion on the constitutionality and legality of the rules before the publication of the regulations. I believe that this is not the business of the Chamber of Commerce, although in this law you have left it to prescribe the general conditions of operation of bus stations, to prescribe general conditions of inter-urban transport, to keep records of bus stops for inter-urban traffic, to have jurisdiction regarding the alignment of driving orders. It is in line with Article 11, which says of Serbia's Chamber of Commerce that it is exercising certain public powers entrusted to it by law. I think it's necessary for the Ministry to work, that it's not a business of the Chamber of Commerce, I think, and it's better to be governed by the Ministry because the Chamber of Commerce has no obligation for everyone to be members of that Chamber of Commerce to have this kind of authority. We'll talk later about court honor and loss of license, which I don't think belongs to the Chamber of Commerce, at least. I suggest you think more about what decisions are being made, that it is the Ministry, that it is the State, not the Chamber of Commerce, which has no obligation to join. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34633	Thank you. Members of the 48th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34634	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, honored guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr. Bečić, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 48, explained our amendment and Minister Mihajlovic, I assume with the suggestion of our co-workers and associates in the ministry, accepted the amendment and announced that the amendment was accepted for the reasons set out in the explanation of the tabled amendment. In the light of the amendments, this is what I want the MPs of all parliamentary groups to hear now, it says that we believe that proper use of words is needed in accordance with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language. I only have two additions here now, as proper use of words is required in accordance with the spelling and grammar of Serbian language in Article 48, gentlemen, this too had to apply to members of 21 and 42. Furthermore, I would also like to remind Minister Mihajlovic and her associates and associates to reconsider once again, it is not too late to change that decision on members 21 and 42. And, Mr. Becic, just to inform, seeing as he's looking a little questionable, this is one small tree, this is an oak, Mr. Becic. You weren't here this morning, with Savinca, who was cut down, Mr. Becic, six centuries old. We considered it inappropriate. When the Minister is here, it was necessary to show this part of the cut oak, to remind the basilica of the White Palanca, we must not do that, I think, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34635	I'd like to ask you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34636	To cultural well-being, so we treat each other. I don't think that's right and they should react.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34637	Dear Doctor, I'd like to ask you, you know the rules in the National Assembly, I'd ask you to put it in the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34638	But you know, it means oak Savinac...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34639	But I'd like you to put it in the bench now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34640	Okay, did the minister see the same thing?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34641	Yes, it is. Here, put it in the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34642	She saw, saw the minister, okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34643	Will you do that for me, Mr. Pavicevic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34644	We'll remind the minister and you, Mr. Becic, if you need oak and basilica...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34645	I remember very well, but please put it in the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34646	And on the land on Zlatibor, we'll do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34647	The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34648	So, just for the viewer's sake, this amendment is a editorial nature. The word "internet" was written in a capital letter in the bill, we said it goes in a small letter, so people don't think that something important was changed, a purely spelling error was corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34649	Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted the amendment together. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34650	Yes, thank you. This amendment is essential in nature and it has been rejected, normally. Here we have suggested that in the work – the inter-urban transport of Article 58, in the second position says – the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia prescribes general conditions for inter-urban transport. We said that, we suggested that "the Chamber of Commerce" be deleted from this article and that the word "ministration" stands there. We believe that Serbia's Chamber of Commerce cannot prescribe the conditions of intermediate transport, it is sensitive matter. Our opinion is in the area of public interest and cannot prescribe terms by an interested association of carriers. So, the owner of the capital, whatever you want. Who's protecting the public interest, we wonder? Who ensures that transport is carried out in accordance with the needs of citizens? We think it should be done by the ministry, it's our position, not the Chamber of Commerce that does so under Article 11 that says that it can exercise certain public powers entrusted to it by law. So these are not her original powers, and we believe that those trusted powers should be restored to themselves, i.e. The Ministry does that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34651	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34652	Thank you. I'm using my authorized time. I'll just repeat some of the questions that my colleague Bradic said earlier. I'm interested in why the ministry disowns the mechanisms of influence on such a significant activity. She transferred public authority to the Chamber of Commerce and I will repeat, these are the general conditions of bus stations, so it's now done by the Chamber of Commerce. It prescribes general conditions of inter-urban transport, keeps records of bus stops for inter-urban transport, prescribes a remote for inter-urban transport, has jurisdiction over the alignment of the timetables. However, Article 58(2) states – The Chamber of Commerce lists the general conditions of inter-urban transport. Given that this is a very significant activity, so passenger transport, I think that the overall activity and all that has been passed on to the Chamber of Commerce should return the ministry to its authority. That's the only way we can achieve protection of public interest. I am almost certain that the ministry will better protect public interest from the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34653	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34654	As before today, Mr. Chairman, I suggest we have another technical error in the text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34655	Thank you. On Article 60 of the amendment, the People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34656	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, the honourable fellow Members of the People, we are all amendments that we have given to the question of jurisdiction and so on this amendment, that is, Article 60. Laws in the area of inter-urban transport relating to the definition of bus stops. According to Article 60, the unit body of local self-government sets out the views that can be used for a specific type of liner transport, which are published in the "Official Messenger" of the local self-government unit and in the following position is said – the decision set out in Article 1, which determines the positions for inter-minor transport is made according to the previously obtained consent of the ministry. We have just given an amendment to this point 2 and we have proposed that, with the word "ministers", the word "a" for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. – for the territory of the autonomous province, the province's competent authority". The reasons for the refusal of our amendment, in the explanation, are that the amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is contrary to the concept of inter-urban transport, which is based on the definition of inter-urban transport as a transport between settlements, which are located on the territory of two or more local self-government units regardless of whether they are located on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. However, what creates a dilemma for this refusal is, in the same law in the inspection control section, the AP is given powers, i.e. transfer of competences in the conduct of inspection controls, and Article 154 states, that it is entrusted to the autonomous province to carry out inspection tasks over the application of this law and regulations adopted under this Law on the conduct of a line, in particular line, out-of-line transport in domestic transport and transport for its own needs in domestic transport, which starts and ends in the territory of the Autonomous Region as well as a review of the bus station and bus stop which is located on the territory of the Autonomous Region and in the review of the documentation of cell service providers in relation to the operation of the provision of cell services. So, the province has no jurisdiction when it comes to giving consent to bus stops, but on the other hand, there are also how you transfer jurisdiction, as it will say, there is no trust in the province when it is necessary to give consent to such an action, but there is trust when it is necessary to carry out inspection supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34657	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34658	Thank you. I use the time of the DS parliamentary group, for the vote, for the amendment submitted by counterparts Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. It would be good to accept this amendment, because it is in accordance with the Law on the transfer of certain competences of autonomous provinces, and much of the work is done in a way that would make the law completely clear. There is nothing to add to the jurisdiction of inspection control and it is already being carried out. In order for there to really be good and efficient, safe, well-organised and contentment of passengers constructed inter-urban transport, I think it would be much better to adopt this amendment. My vote in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34659	Thank you. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Ivan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize that this amendment has been posted by an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34660	Thank you. Good decision from the Proposer. In short, let me just comment on why it's a good decision. The original proposal, now amended by the amendment tabled by my fellow Members and I, said in paragraph 3 that the body of the unit of local self-government could not change the purpose of the position set out for inter-monetary transport in force on the day of entry into force of this law of registered driving schedules. Our amendment was possible with the consent of the Ministry, because we believe that so the law, and I am glad that the amendment has been accepted, is really going to have a good application, not a hindrance to cross-border transport at local level.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34661	Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic submitted to the 61st amendment. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34662	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so here is another concept quite different from what the government has proposed. Article 61 speaks of the decision referred to in Article 60, which speaks of positions, on the local self-government which determines the consent of the Ministry, is required to deliver the PCC within eight days of the day of publication in the Official Messenger of the Units of Local Self-Government, the PKS, shall keep records of bus stops for inter-urban transport. We suggest it be the Ministry. It's a very sensitive matter, it's a state's business, and we think it should work for the ministry, not for the PKK, because it has a whole other purpose, other obligations, and these are her responsibilities for something that can be given, and it can be taken away. I understand that this is the original jurisdiction of the PKS, but in that case, the PKS would not have a premise of volunteering, but would be mandatory. Since it is not mandatory for economic operators in the Republic of Serbia, I don't see why you give it this kind of authority. My colleagues thank you for the editorial, for the correction, normally, the Ministry's wrong, and where I'm not going to make a mistake, it's just work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34663	Thank you. He's got a word for it. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34664	I thank you for your kind words, and in order to maintain our cooperation at the level we've already established, today and here we have a spelling error.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34665	Thank you. Members of the 63rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34666	We are a member of 63rd, which means a similar amendment, where the PKS is mentioned, he says that the time of departure from the initial and final bus station, i.e. bus stop and the time of arrival and departure at all bus stations and bus stops in order to drive must be consistent with the time of driving suitable for safe traffic. The order of traffic in inter-urban traffic must be consistent with the remote. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce prescribes a remote for inter-urban transport. We suggest that the PKS be deleted from this member, and that the Ministry stands, that the Ministry prescribes a remote for intermediate transport. I repeat once again the entrusted powers of the Chamber of Commerce, I think it's much safer, much better to do so by the state, i.e. It's the Ministry. It's the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34667	Thank you. On the 64th Amendment, the People's MPs, Nada Lazi and Olena Papuga, together submitted the amendment. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34668	In Article 64 relating to the order of driving, namely, the order of driving in inter-urban transport, it says in this article, can only be registered to one carrier and is said to be – the order of driving in inter-urban transport is registered and certified by the Ministry. We have suggested adding a follow-up to this article, that is, this position, "and for the territory of the AP competent province authority". Furthermore, in the same member of the Ministry, we said, “and for the territory of the AP runs a register of certified driving orders in inter-urban transport containing a particularly regular number, business name of the carrier, etc.” In the following position, we also said that the minister, and for the territory of the AP Vojvodina, the competent circuit body prescribes the content of the form, order of driving, content and method of keeping the register, etc. I would like to remind myself that Article 148 of this Act, which refers to inspection supervision, has just been defined that the mandated person of APV, or AP, is sorry, in carrying out the inspection work on the transport carried out and reviewing bus stations and bus stops under Article 1 of this Article, concerns the duties and powers laid down in Articles 148, 147 and 149, and I have just mentioned this 148 in which it is said that it controls and extends the applicable driving order, which is logical to then lead and register. Unfortunately, you refused this, with the same explanation that due to organized inter-urban traffic, it is not feasible. I will just remind myself that from the first announcements for the adoption of this new Law on the transport of passengers from the Regional Secretariat in charge of traffic on several occasions, proposals and suggestions for the amendment of this law, i.e. which has yet to be adopted, in particular with the tendency to carry out certain transport arrangements, control can be carried out by the APV authorities, to make improvements in this area, especially if these members concerned are taken into account. Unfortunately, you did not accept that, so I urge you to reconsider and accept these suggestions when it comes to jurisdiction, if they are already well defined through inspection supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34669	Thank you, Mrs. Lazic. He's got a word for it. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mr. Orlic, it's too late to register here. I assume the application was for the previous amendment. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 64th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Branka Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34670	We tried to explain Article 64's first position. Namely, it reads this way – Interurban transport order can only be registered to one carrier. It seemed unclear to us, and it seemed to us that the overall order of inter-urban transport driving could be registered to only one carrier, instead of one carrier being able to register, only one order of driving in inter-urban transport, and we restructured that same attitude, and then it should be said – one carrier could only have one registered order of driving in inter-urban transport. I just can't believe the Ministry didn't accept this crystal clear position of this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34671	On Article 65 of the amendment, the People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34672	The Honorable Chairman and the Ministers, I have also said in the announcement that these several amendments are all relevant to the jurisdiction and thus this Article 65, which refers to the registration and over-the-line transport order, where it is said that the Ministry of Inter-Monetary Transport is operating, and we have added - and for the territories of the AP competent circuit body, especially if it is taken into account, that in Article 149 in the exercise of inspection supervision, the conduct of domestic transport, the inspector is obliged and authorised, and so it is said - that the application for eradicating the order of driving, or departure from the timetable, when it is determined that the carrier does not carry out line transport, because it is something which is under this law in jurisdiction, transferred the jurisdiction of the AP, so I do not see why and the over and registration of the order of driving, cannot operate the competent authority of the AP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34673	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34674	Thank you. With the re-support of the amendment submitted by counterparts Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga, because we believe that adding the competent regional authority for the territory of the autonomous province only raises the quality of the law. But what is my question, which I did not arrive at in the principle of debate, concerns Article 65, which is the subject of a search, paragraph 4, which reads: "The Ministry is making a decision on registration and a verification of the order of driving for inter-minor transport if the carrier has a licence for domestic passenger transport, i.e. a licence for international line transportation of passengers and a driving order registered in the Ministry, whose period of validity expires, i.e. the order of driving agreed in the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia". I've been reading this attitude and trying to put on an amendment and figure out which part of it goes after which one you're stuck with and what it didn't work out for. So, I understand that the ministry also brings a solution to the order for inter-minor driving, so now if, the carrier has a license for domestic passenger transport, i.e., means or, a licence for international liner transport of passengers and order of driving registered in the Ministry, whose period of validity stands out, i.e. the order of driving agreed in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. These two I don't understand whether it's one or the other, or not? So when are you going to give him a solution? When will he be given a solution? Is there a driving operation that has been agreed in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce or a driving order registered in the Ministry, whose expiry date is due or has both?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34675	Thank you. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President, Mr Becicu, the esteemed Mrs Mihajlovic, the distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the ministry, I think it is important that, above all, because of the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party who make very precise notes of some technical, verbal and linguistic mistakes, here, for example, in the amendments of some MPs of the opposition, I declare here that a single amendment has been accepted because it was necessary to use words properly in accordance with the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language in relation to the proposal that came on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Becic, I only need to make one note here. I'm surprised that the MPs, although they are part of the ruling majority, see, Mr. Orlic, for example, is not here right now, they have objections to it and they are not dealing with primary orientation. The primary direction is to control the government's work, to repair the work that some of the failures or sometimes major errors in government's actions are. We have all agreed here that these bill proposals are good, that they deserve some changes, but I'm surprised then that the MPs, the SNS, for example, have not submitted amendments to these language pads, but rather deal with the pedantic measurement and corrections of literal errors in the opposition's amendments. We must never lose sight, gentlemen, that our primary role here is legislative, and immediately with it control over what is the work of the executive government, and not that the MP controls another MP here, without in any way controlling the Minister, Minister, Prime Minister, President, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34677	Please, a little after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34678	This was all, Mr. Becic, by amendment to Article 65. Proposal for a passenger transport law in, Mr. Becic, road traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34679	Thank you. And the amendment reads: “In Article 65 paragraph 1 2), empty letters in front of the words ‘for the city’ and the words ‘municipality’ are deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34680	That's how the amendment was accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34681	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34682	For the sake of precision, I would like to read Article 65(1) of the Law proposal and read: “For urban and suburban transport municipal and urban administrations, i.e. the administration responsible for traffic operations.” I will now read to you with the accepted amendment Article 65 of point (2): “For urban and suburban transport municipal and urban administrations or administrations responsible for traffic operations. ” Same thing. Deleted two empty letters. I'm sorry. It's an empty letter space. And where's the point? The point we're keeping an eye on, indeed. We also take into account when the draft laws proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also when they are proposals from other MPs. I don't see anything wrong with being corrected by someone in the proposed amendment or spoken word. I'm ready to study. I see no problem at all, but commitment to the work of Mr Orlic, the MP of the SNS. As for the control role, don't cry too much for that control role. Here, in two hours, there will be the Government of the Republic of Serbia and you will be able to ask, but I'm afraid that you will leave this room quickly, as you have so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34683	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34684	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have proposed that attitude 2 be changed, and it is originally said: "with a request for registration and for an order of driving in the inter-urban transport of passengers, it is required to deliver a photocopy of licences for domestic or international line transport and a photocopy of the order of driving registered in the Ministry, whose period of validity stands out, i.e. the original driving order established in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce". Absolutely incomprehensible. The essence of our amendment is that this part, i.e. the original driving order agreed in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, is deleted because we believe that the Chamber of Commerce should not be engaged in this. That's her loyal work. It should deal with its original work, which is providing and organising professional assistance to its members, studying issues relating to the economic branches represented in the chamber, improving and establishing economic co-operation with abroad, presenting domestic economy in the country and abroad, providing timely and quality information to its members in order to find potential partners and connect them, etc., etc. Fellow MPs, it's not the business of the Chamber of Commerce to deal with the affairs of the state. It is done by the Ministry on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Assembly and on behalf of the people, and not on a voluntary basis. The Chamber of Commerce has no obligation to join. It is a voluntary membership and cannot have the functions that we have given it, and we have given it to prescribe the general conditions of operation of bus stations, to prescribe general conditions of inter-urban transport, to keep records of bus stops for inter-urban traffic, to have the authority to comply with the driving schedules. It's not the business of the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34685	National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 66th amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34686	Another member who says - the carrier delivers a proposal to Serbia's Chamber of Commerce for a timetable with a requirement to bring the proposed timetable into line with the registered driving schedules for cross-border transport. We ask that this part – The Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, as well as Article 66 in point 3 is deleted, we propose that it be changed and that – the ministry prescribes the conditions and implements the process of harmonising the draft order of driving with the registered order of driving in the intermediate transport once during the calendar year. We propose that attitude 4 be deleted, and he says – Serbia's Chamber of Commerce implements the process of harmonising the proposal for driving orders with registered driving orders in the intermediate transport once during the calendar year, and reminding me of the business of the Chamber of Commerce is providing and organising professional assistance to its members to improve and improve their business. I note that the Chamber of Commerce has no obligation to join. The study of issues relating to the economic branches represented in the Chamber represents a domestic economy in the country and abroad and includes the same international trade of goods, services in a way that will facilitate its members' access to the world market. Business links information and informs members of the Chamber. Making a proposal to the competent national authorities for the development and introduction of different instruments for the protection of domestic economy, the launch of an anti-dumping initiative concerning the incorrect behaviour of foreign producers on the domestic market. It's a business of the Chamber of Commerce, not of determining and engaging in public urban transport and inter-urban transport, which is the job of the ministry and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34687	Thank you. On Article 67 of the amendment, the People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34688	Thank you very much. It's the jurisdiction again. Namely, it is said in Article 67. - the carrier may apply for a change in the registered driving order within the period of validity of the driving order, and the following is said to the Ministry and we have added – and for the territory of the autonomous province, the competent province authority shall adopt a solution approving the carrier to amend the registered driving order until the expiry of the registration order if, then, the activities are arranged. The final position in which we say that the ministry, and for the territory of the autonomous province, the province's competent authority, adopts a solution rejecting the requirement of Article 1 if the carrier requires an amendment to the registration order which is not prescribed in paragraph 2 of this Article. I repeat that we believe that it would be very useful to adopt these amendments when it comes to jurisdiction, because this can only improve its implementation on the territory of Vojvodina, especially if it is taken into account that, under the same law, Articles 147, 148, 149 and 154 are in the power of inspection, these are delegated powers given to the province's authority. So I ask you to reconsider and let these amendments be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34689	Thank you. Members of the 67th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice President, Mr Becicu, respected Mrs Mihajlovic, distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the ministry, this is one of the 15 accepted amendments of the People's MPs of the New Party, and of the 19 amendments submitted to these two draft laws. I have to say, it's necessary for me to have one special pleasure, of course, when the amendment is accepted, especially when one otherwise good bill is fixed. That's a very good thing. I have another reason to be particularly pleased, and it concerns one certainty, that SNS MPs in the day to vote in favour of this bill as a whole, will also vote for one less literal place which is empty, and within this bill, respected gentlemen, since it is an empty letter place too high. Of course that concerns, gentlemen, and Mr. Becic, the control role all MPs should play, not just the MPs of the opposition. Mr. Babic is right about one thing. The Assembly’s control function is carried out through the MPs’ institutes that we will have today from four to seven. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I signed up yesterday to ask questions to the Prime Minister today at four o'clock, waiting for the Prime Minister to ask these questions, to answer these questions, to discuss questions and answers... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34691	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I don't have the answers to those questions. I suppose the MPs shared the job, so some MPs are for serious matters, and you're for literal mistakes, so congratulations again on the accepted amendment. On Article 68 of the amendment, the People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Gordana Komic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34692	The reasons given for not accepting the amendments I have to join the question – do you qualify this amendment as serious or unserious, so I know how to concise my discussion. If that's within the framework of the Bureau's business obligations when it comes to giving words to the MPs, I'd like you to let me know that I wouldn't violate that practice, obviously, since it's not in the Rules of Procedure. So am I a serious folk letter or a non-serious one? So I can act. Here you go -- I assume you're counting on me to be serious or I'm not serious about putting up with the amendment. Thank you. Consistently, counterparts Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga suggest that the AP Ministry, the competent circuit body, be involved in the application of this law and, as I said, will support the amendments that have been proposed and concerning each individual member where the ministry's obligation is mentioned, so will I for this amendment. I don't think it will be long before the amendments and additions of this law are in order to share competences because one good part of the responsibility for the area of traffic are already in the law on the transfer of certain responsibilities of the AP with the hope that when we, as a Assembly together, we adopt a law on financing the competence of the AP, it will be seen that it was pragmatic, it was useful and it was in the spirit of this law to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34693	Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović, Dr Blaža Bradic, together submitted to the 68th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34694	So I'm going to read article 68 to make it more clear what we're doing with our amendment, what we're proposing. In the event of the suspension of inter-urban transport by registered driving order due to the suspension of the validity of the licence for the transport or erasure of the order of transport from the register, provided that other carriers do not carry out inter-urban transport on that route, the ministry shall adopt a solution allowing the other carrier to carry out temporary inter-urban transport under the registered driving order by which the operation of inter-urban transport has ceased no later than 1 October of the following calendar year, and we agree absolutely, that is, the work of the ministry. He now says the following position – in the process of agreeing to the draft driving orders, so you say – in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, and we say – in the ministry and we insist on that, the order of driving under Article 1 is not considered registered and the next position says – the minister prescribes the conditions and procedure of determining the carrier for the temporary operation of cross-border transport in accordance with the registered order of driving under which the dealings of cross-border transport ceased. I remind you, the Chamber of Commerce should do the following: to make proposals to competent state bodies for the development and introduction of different instruments for the protection of domestic economy, to launch an anti-dumping initiative on the incorrect behaviour of foreign producers on the domestic market, to assist its members in the financing and lending of production and co-operation with business banks, to cultivate good business practices and business morality, to provide and organise professional assistance to its members in order to improve and improve their business rather than take care of public transport. I ask you to accept our suggestions, accept the amendments and take responsibility. That's what you do, that's what the Ministry does, not the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34695	Thank you. Members of the 73rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a People's MP, Mr. Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34696	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, dear Vice President Becic, I now direct this amendment exclusively to you, because I consider it, gentlemen, a matter of language to be a matter of essence. We have to respect the established spelling and grammar rules, because if that doesn't work, then we could have the following formulation in Article 73 of this bill. Be careful how this would be – In the course of the order of transport, liner transport may be suspended or amended in cases due to the measure of the relevant republican and so on. Well, he can't, gentlemen. So it was necessary to submit here an amendment, Mr. Becic, which is essential, regarding the language. When it comes to language, it doesn't mean it's unserious, esteemed gentlemen, but rather the opposite. Well, the rules exist around language, about grammar, about spelling, so that we can communicate properly, that there's some order, that we can understand each other, gentlemen. We were forced here, I think as MPs who are very committed to the work of the National Assembly, to submit an amendment to Article 73 in order to adapt the text of the law to what the rules of the spelling and grammar of the Serbian language are, and the government has accepted. Mr. Becic, here's to tell you, it's a great pleasure for you to vote in the voting day, when you vote, Mr. Becic, for this bill of law, and you now say if you will vote against, which you will also vote for this amendment concerning spelling, grammar and respect for the rules of the Serbian language, and thus show that this is a serious matter, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34697	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. That's exactly what I said. That is why we have entrusted you with this important task, because I believe that the grammar of Serbian language is very important, and others are working on some other important topics. Thank you. National MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) I thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 74th amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34698	Thank you. Here's a typical member that doesn't need the Chamber of Commerce to do what this law gives her. Says – Registered driving order, i.e. leaving the registered driving order, the Ministry will delete from the register if the carrier does not start transport by registered driving order, if it ceases to carry out transport in accordance with the registration order, if it does not occasionally carry out transport under the registered driving order, or if it does not carry out transport on the route from the start to the end of the bus station, if it does not carry out the loading and landing of passengers in the same village, or in the same populated place that is not registered in the registered order of driving. And a very interesting view, pay attention to colleagues- The ministry is making a solution to the removal of registered driving order, i.e. starting from the order of driving, registering and in case the Court of Honor of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce finds that the carrier has injured good business customs in transport. Again, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has no mandatory membership. My chamber has mandatory membership and the court honors my chamber can deny my license and practice my work. The lawyer's chamber has an obligation to belong to membership, but the Serbian Chamber of Commerce has no obligation. Well, how's the court gonna honor solving a company that's not a member of the Chamber of Commerce? On what grounds? And wipe him out and take his right to work? Well, that can't be. So, I ask you to respect our amendment, to make the law quality and good. After all, I beg you, there are a lot of lawyers here, excellent lawyers, give people a word and you're in favor of this amendment. The amendment is correct, quality and should be applied. We'll make a circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34699	Thank you. The People's MPs Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together to Article 75 of the amendment. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34700	This amendment is in a member who says – The carrier intending to stop carrying inter-urban transport under the registered driving order is obliged to submit, at least 10 days before the intended date of termination of the transport operation, a request for a check-out of the registered driving order and, within the same time limit, to inform the service provider and the transport users through means of public information or other appropriate means. The following position states that the Ministry is making a solution, and we have added there to the Ministry: "and for the territory of the Autonomous Province, the province's competent authority is making a decision to delete the registered order of driving from the register with the date on which the inter-urban transport is stopped as referred to in the request under Article 1(1). “ I repeat again, for the same reasons that I have mentioned earlier when it comes to jurisdiction, it can only be very useful for this part of the work for Vojvodina territory to be carried out by a competent circuit body, not just the Ministry, since, as I have already said, they have transferred jurisdiction to the circuit authority in the area of inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34701	Thank you. Members of the 76th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, of course, honored guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, especially you who have certainly made the most of your efforts on the content of this bill, his text which we have repeatedly said is very good here, and the respected Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, I am glad that this amendment has been accepted, because it has made one good bill even better. I would only like to talk about one principle, which also leads us here in political action and in the National Assembly as our central political institution, with your permission, Mr. Becic, just to remind Minister Mihajlovic of one promise two days ago. Mrs. Gojkovic also agreed to this when we discussed, that Mrs. Mihajlovic would give us additional information about the land on Zlatibor... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34703	Mr. Pavicevic... (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: It is not a topic, but with your permission... ) Mr Pavicevic, you yourself said this was not a topic, and today we have a special session of questions to the government and I would ask you, even I would be very pleased if you would ask that question at that time. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34704	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although I greatly appreciate the efforts of every MP to better examine the draft laws and to make appropriate amendments, I think it is the job of every MP, but I will now read to you the bill proposal, Article 76 paragraph 1 point 1: "Registrated driving order, i.e. a photocopy of the registered order of driving certified by the stamp and signature of the authorised person of the carrier. “ This is what the bill says, and this is what the Bill with the amendment adopted says: “Registrated driving order, i.e. photocopy of registered driving order certified by stamp and signature by the authorised person of the carrier. “ The same, essentially the same. One square micrometer of empty space has been erased and this is the only topic of this amendment. Good, because there's respect. As MPs read the bill's proposals, this also shows that the government is reading amendments and that it is not a problem to adopt the amendment and that no one will fall from their heads if the amendment is adopted and that no MP and no member of the SNS will fall from the head because, voting for the law in general, they will also vote for the amendments of counterparts Pavicevic and colleagues of Zivkovic. But the problem is that an integral part of this bill, when voting in general, will also be the amendments to the respected Mrs Stojiljkovic and mine. Essentially important, four extremely important amendments, but Mr Pavicevic will not vote for it, he will not vote for his even amendments, not for the law in general, because probably in a few hours of voting that we will have tomorrow, he will have better things to do in Belgrade cafes and cafes or anywhere. It is his free will, or anywhere, just not in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34705	Please, Mr. Granny, just get back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34706	I wish everyone had enough of one MP's honor to say, yes, we accept the amendment and we will vote for it, but on the other hand, led by the same honor of the MP and such amendments, highly quality, and on the other hand, by the same measure, the disciplined remnant of the National Assembly, even when voting for the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34707	Thank you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. () Why does the Rules of Procedure, when you are entitled to a replica because you are mentioned? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Because the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured. ) Well, it wasn't hurt because I warned Mr. Babic to come back on the subject. So if you want to replicate, you have a right to replication. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I want to, of course. Here you go. Replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becicu, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, of course, honored guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, for every speech I have here, dear gentlemen, I choose my words carefully. I'm trying absolutely to respect what's contained in article 107. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, concerning the dignity of the People's MPs and the dignity of the National Assembly, as the central political institution in our constitutional system. I believe, Mr. Becic, that it was not appropriate, especially because of this kind of guidance in the work in the National Assembly, because of one, I think, obvious commitment to this work, the careful reading of all the bill proposals, the proposed laws in the procedure in the National Assembly, that Mr. Babic here now said that instead of spending it here in the National Assembly, in the large hall, I spend that time in Belgrade cafes, by Belgrade cafes, etc., honored gentlemen. I think, Mr. Becic, that it would now be appropriate for Mr. Babic to address the words of apology because I am not aware that Mr. Babic could have noticed me in some cafes, some cafes. I am here in the Great Hall of the House of the People's Assembly meeting with Mr Babic, we are discussing the bill's proposals, the policies implemented by this government. These policies are often bad and I don't think it was really appropriate for Mr. Babic to discuss and judge my actions in the National Assembly for these years and three months, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34709	Time. Thank you. For the public, Mr Pavicevic, Mr Babic spoke only of the vote, not of your actions, as you say, in the National Assembly, and of the interpretation of the law, but only of the vote. And during the vote, we're here and we vote, so I can't know where you are and that's why I couldn't react. Here you go, Mr. Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34710	I thank you, Mr. Becic, for giving me a creamy answer. I don't know when you need to make an apology because you're doing your job. I, as well as my esteemed predecessor, read the bill's proposals and make amendments, but I do not forget one very important segment of the parliamentary action, and that important segment of the parliamentary action is voting, regardless of whether it is support or non-support or abstention. But it's all part of the vote, and that shows political opinion and political attitude. The Open Parliament is an excellent tool where you can see the presence, where you can see the speeches, where in the years ahead, someone will remind us of what we have spoken and what we have represented and what the effects of what we have spoken and represented, but they will also tell you how much we are for and for which amendments we have also voted. The fact is that respected colleagues are very unmotivated to stay on the vote, whether because of the shortages they have, whether because they cannot express their proposals and get a majority for their proposals, I don't know, but the fact is that, apart from rare individuals, in voting days, I can say freely in voting hours, there are no MPs from the opposition, and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34711	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34712	Do I have to apologize now because they're not here when they're supposed to be here or apologize for being here when we all have to be here?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34713	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I think this was enough to clarify this situation, and we're all looking forward to a special session, so I'd like to go back to the amendments. The amendment was submitted to Article 91 by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34714	Yeah, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34715	Thank you. I find that a representative of the Government has accepted the amendment of the Committee. The amendment was submitted to Article 94 by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Mrs. Mihajlović, please come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34716	Thank you. We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34717	Thank you. I also find that the representative of the proposing Mrs Mihajlovic has accepted the Committee's amendment to Article 94. Mrs. Comic, do you want to talk to this member? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34718	Thank you. The amendment that has just been accepted will have to pass the editorial if I have a good copy of the amendment in the material. It refers to Article 94, paragraph 4, which reads: “The local self-government unit regulates the specific conditions to be met by the carrier, the characteristics and characteristics of the taxi and the way in which the transport taxis are carried out which are not defined by this law. That's a line that's okay. “ The amendment refers to the second sentence of the same heading: ‘The unit of local self-government determines and harmonizes,’ it wrote - the maximum, deleted by amendment, the price under the taxi tariff at which the taxi is carried, and the word ‘can’ is changed in the word ‘must’. In the transcript that I have, there is a number four to delete, so when you accepted, that the editorials move away, because the word "mor 4a" means nothing, it's obviously a mistake. What is my question, since it will now read – determines and harmonises the price under the taxi tariff at which the taxi transport must be carried out on its territory, with what does it harmonize? Because when it was the maximum price, then it made sense, but when we deleted the maximum, then if you say it's clear, okay, only with this editorial, because the taxi ride is partially covered by the provisions of this law, but most of it's local self-government units. It is an important work of entrepreneurs mostly or companies. It is therefore important that they know exactly, if there is a fixed price under the taxi tariff, with which that price is adjusted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34719	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. You're absolutely right, but we have to have understanding for our services because they had to type seven, eight hundred amendments in one day, so there's only an extra number four in the word "must." It'll be technically corrected. Thank you. Members of the 112s were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Thank you. Mr. Pavicevic, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, I would especially like these few sentences that I have prepared as part of the argument for the adoption of this amendment to hear the MP, Mr. Zoran Babic. So we have submitted an amendment to Article 112. The draft law relating to item 1 of point 5) and that Mr Babic, Mr Becic, hears again, will not be repulsed, I think it is another respected gentleman, Mr Babic, the accepted amendment of the People's MPs of the New Party. Mr. Becic, in one...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34721	I'd like to ask you one more time just so you don't speak directly to Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34722	All right, I'm sorry, I was wrong. According to the Rules of Procedure, no direct address is allowed to another MP, but here I am asking you, Mr Becic, that once again when I finish this presentation, remind Parliamentarian Zoran Babic, that this is another accepted amendment of the People's MPs of the New Party. Another piece of information, to pass on to the People's MP, Mr Babic, that we the People's MPs of the New Party have submitted the largest number of amendments, both to these drafts of the law, and in this year and three months, to Mr Becic, as far as I am working in this conference, and not only that, but that we have the highest number of amendments accepted. I reminded you this morning, round Mr. Becic, 100, and when we get to the Bookbooks Act tomorrow, we're going to have seven more accepted amendments, that's going to be 107. I just want Mr. Babic to hear and simply accept that we are more engaged, more dedicated, more industrious than any of the Serbian Progressive Party MPs, including you, Mr. Becic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34723	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I understand that you care very much about Mr. Babic's opinion, but I am sure Mr. Babic respects you all and is grateful that you are correcting literal mistakes. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic, Vesna Marjanović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Ivan Jovanovic, Jovana Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34724	Thank you. Article 122 deals with the situation where the domestic carrier wants to stop carrying out line transport and our amendment refers to the 1st position. The first position in the draft law states: ‘The domestic carrier intending to stop carrying out liner transport granted to him for liner transport shall be obliged to submit, at least 30 days before the intended date of termination of the transport, a reasoned request for the termination of liner transport to the Ministry and, within the same time limit, inform the users of the transport by means of means of public information or other appropriate means’. We've asked that deadline to be 90 days for a logical reason how long it takes for you to issue a new permit. He will, if he gets a solution that ceases to carry a line, he has deadlines, or she still has deadlines for which he returns the licence, etc. It seems to us that 30 days due to the deadlines for issuing line transport permits is too short and that 30 days is too short to be notified. The assumption for 90 days is that it is exclusively the business decision of the domestic carrier. He has the right to watch his business, to see if he's well calculated his plan, whether it's worth it. It was not an assumption that he would have to inform the Ministry for completely unforeseeable reasons that he wanted to stop carrying the liner, and if it was a business decision, then it implies that he knows it for more than 30 days and leaves time to the Ministry, or the Chamber of Commerce, to provide another domestic carrier with a solution, and then enough time to inform all the users of that transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34725	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has Dr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, I am sorry that you have now partly disfellowshipped yourself from this debate, of course, I have been trying to get out of this framework of language, spelling, grammar, to mention some other topics, Mrs. Mihajlović, but Mr. Becic does not allow it at all. Dear Mr. Becic, Vice President of the National Assembly, the amendment to Article 123 is another proof of how essential language is, gentlemen. I also noticed during today's debate that Mr. Becic doesn't think so, that neither does Mr. Babic, but he is, dear gentlemen. The acceptance of this amendment is a sign that people working in the government are dealing with these issues as well, because they have accepted this amendment, dear Mr. Becic. Imagine that the remaining sentences, which are as follows – during the period of validity of the licence for domestic transport, or a foreign carrier may suspend or modify line transport in cases due to the measure of the relevant republican... Well, he can't, gentlemen. And, Mr. Becic, this is not a question of erasing an empty letter place, this is a question of an entire sentence structure, and it was necessary to respond there. Then I'm particularly surprised that one expert on these technical and linguistic, stylish errors in SNS, when it comes to considering the amendments to the opposition, which is Mr. Orlic, in the same way does not react when we come across mistakes from people who appear on behalf of the executive authority. Instead of Mr. Orlic doing this, he reads the opposition's amendments and is looking for some technical mistakes. Let him do it, but first let him analyze and control the government's work. The fact that he supports once some government policy and some bill of law doesn't require Mr. Becic to prevent him from doing this primary act. I suggest you think about it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34727	Sir, my dear professor, I'm sorry you feel that way, so I just said that I think it's very important and that's why we've entrusted you with such an important task. Sir, for one moment, don't think, Professor, that I've said this inconclusively, but I think it's very important. We respect you very much, and that is why we have entrusted you with this important task. Thank you. Members of the 126th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has Dr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice President Mr. Bečić, Mrs. Mihajlović, and of course distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry who dealt with these issues, our amendment, 10th in a row, has been accepted on this draft law concerning the content of Article 126 of Item 2, item 1), ladies and gentlemen. That's where we really had to intervene, because we noticed that there was an empty letter space extra. Since we have noticed it, we have reacted here, endured, as it is, I mean, order, honored gentlemen, an amendment that has been accepted. Mr. Becic, once again it is necessary for me to tell you here, it is a great pleasure that both you and Mr. Babic and Jovicic, Peranovic, Orlic is not there now, in the day of the vote, when everyone here is voting for this bill and for this amendment that becomes an integral part of this bill. I am sorry only that this opportunity when Mrs. Mihajlović is visiting our National Assembly we still couldn't take advantage of, to ask some additional questions about work control... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34729	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. We will, believe it, be very, very happy when we vote and when we are aware that we are also voting for your amendments. The 134th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 135th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 139th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Bečić, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, of course, honored guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, this is the last amendment, amendment number 13 that Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to this bill. And I think it is my turn to round up my participation in the debate over the amendments by reminding all MPs that MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted a total of 19 amendments to these two draft laws. 15 was accepted, I think it was a mistake not to accept two more amendments to Article 21 and to Article 42 of this proposal to transport passengers in road traffic, but I hope that if it was subsequently found that it was a mistake to correct that error. Now, of course, I think one opportunity and a time for all of us MPs to prepare ourselves for both the MPs' institute and at 1600 hours we have the Prime Minister as a guest here, Minister and I have prepared Mr. Becic, as part of our activities here, a few questions for the Prime Minister to discuss between 16:00 and 19.00 hours, to hear these questions, to hear the answers and to have a good debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34731	Thank you, professor. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34732	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs Mihajlović, respected colleagues and colleagues, member of 143, says – a domestic company, another legal person or entrepreneur can carry out international transport for his own purposes, if it is registered in the register of companies, and then further says that, with the request of the 2nd member of the company, another legal person or entrepreneur, it is required to provide a certified photocopy of the valid copy of the register of economic operators, a certified photocopy of the traffic licence, a lease contract or a bus lease. The ministry shall adopt a decision on the entry in the register, provided that the conditions laid down in Article 3 are met, the ministry shall adopt a decision on the refusal of the law, unless some of the conditions laid down in Article 3 have been met. We have suggested that we bring only photocopy, that it does not have to be certified, because it is issued by a state body and needlessly burdens the applicants with documents to pay for something that is evident and verifiable. We added a new position because you end up a member with words – a solution from paragraphs 4 and 5, and thinks of these beliefs, the solutions, that the solutions of paragraphs 4 and 5 are final and we say against it can be triggered by an administrative dispute, because it is the work of the judiciary and I'm surprised that you didn't put the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia here, because it seems that you want to make something of what is voluntary to make compulsory. You want all those who want to deal with road traffic to be mandatory members of the Chamber of Commerce, settle it by law, don't push the obligation to join the Chamber of Commerce. It's not right, and that doesn't have to deal with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34733	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 153rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 158, the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the Minister to plead on this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34734	I thank you for accepting the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34735	I find that a representative of the government has accepted the Committee's amendment and I thank Mrs Mihajlovic. Parliamentarians Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic submitted together to the 160th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Snezana Malović and Dr Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34736	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, this is the last amendment that we have submitted to this law and it refers to, according to the bill's promoter, that the Chamber of Commerce is obliged to carry out the procedure to check compliance with the applicable driving schedules with the Transboundary for inter-minor traffic. We suggest that it be not the Chamber of Commerce and we ask it to be the Ministry, because it is the obligation of the state, not the Chamber of Commerce. In the end, to sum up all the things I've been saying so far, it looks like we're introducing on a small door the obligation to join the Chamber of Commerce. You as a government can do that, Madam Minister. I'd like to be denied. Take the word and say that Blagoje Bradić is wrong, but absolutely not the carriers have to be members of the Chamber of Commerce, that the Chamber of Commerce will judge only members of the Chamber of Commerce, and those who are not members will not be tried, but will normally go into the ordinary procedure, that the order of driving of members, i.e. carriers who are not members of the power to be certified and able to register, because this turns out to be an obligation to join the Chamber of Commerce, which I do not deny, but say it is. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is a voluntary association of businessmen. It's not an obligation. The court cannot honor something that is voluntary to deny the right, and what if someone is not a member of it. How will he punish him? The medical chamber has this power because doctors have to be members of the medical chamber in order to be able to practice. The bar has that power because lawyers have to be members of the bar. The court of honor has the weight of a decision. How will someone judge someone who is not a member of that organization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34737	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Babic and Ivana Stojiljkovic. The government and the Committee on Business Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is proposed by amendment MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34738	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Mihajlovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here at the end of today's debate I would like to announce that with these five accepted amendments, of the 95th total I submitted, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted 89, so that the SNS at the rate of efficiency, the percentage of support of 93.68% and that in one morning, in one here working time, it is now three hours, this kind of action of the opposition, that the SNS only improved that percentage by one working time. I want the opposition to continue to act in the National Assembly this way, each working time half a percent on the SNS and the Government of Alexander Vukic. This is a victory, but primarily the victory of the government of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, because tomorrow we will get between these 14 legislative proposals and two excellent traffic laws by the votes of the MPs and the MPs of the SNS, as well as our coalition partners. That is why I am grateful to Ms. Mihajlovic, but also to her co-workers and co-workers from the ministry. I thank you for your work and thank you for supporting and contributing to the percentage of SNS reaching a percentage of 93.68%, of course by the logic of a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34739	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Now it's a 16-hour break, when we continue working on parliamentary issues. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlovic, and her associates for their participation in today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34740	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we approach the question of MPs in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Accordingly, I ask the MPs, or you, to submit applications for questions. At the same time, I would remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, by giving a change of word first to Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. At the same time, I would like to offer you an apology from the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, which will not be able to attend today at the start of asking parliamentary questions because of meetings he has in Belgrade and exclusively concerns economic issues. It does not exclude the possibility if it ends by 19.00 hours to join us anyway, because it certainly respects that you are asking questions on behalf of Serbian citizens who have chosen us. The power to replace it today is certainly the first Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, as well as all other ministers who are with us today. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. Until we get the list, I think the first MP is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34741	No doubt I'm the first, and that's where we can say that's the reason for some phenomena, specifically today, but let's put that aside. I've prepared, of course, questions for the Prime Minister and I'm very sorry that he's not here and that I won't be able to ask them to him. I'll put them on the first vice president, and he can answer them, or he can pass them on to the Prime Minister, so the Prime Minister can give an answer if he comes back later. I wouldn't want the first question to be a reason for the Prime Minister to be late, and I hope that's not it. Three questions. My opposition colleagues justifiably resented me asking too many questions and thus giving too much time to the Prime Minister to then spend time answering questions. Now I'm only going to ask three questions. The first question is a false promise or promises, which are called false in the people. We have been witnessing for these three years, how long this government has been going on with various presidents, that especially Mr. Vukic is inclined to make a huge number of promises. Not to mention, there's over 100 of them and there's no need to talk about it. For example, one thing is that on 12.06.2013 he said that at the end of that year 10,000 fiattas 500L would be exported to Russia, and then he said that we would buy planes in 2013, that the work on "Belgrade on Water" would begin on March 1st of this year, etc., etc. My first question is: Is that what I wanted to ask the Prime Minister about him, those promises that don't come true, and is that because of ignorance, ignorance or bad intentions? I'd like to get an answer to that question. The second question is about privileges that the government has created for itself in the last few days and weeks separately. The extreme privilege is the law to be adopted tomorrow, and I thought I would urge the prime minister to prevent the adoption of the law, which is a shameful law on buying, or selling real estate to exclusive 685 people who have until now had the privilege of being the tenants of some exclusive villas at a bargain price. Now they're the only ones who can participate in buying these villas at a bargaining price. The second situation is about Zlatibor, Chaetin and that sort of thing. The third question, which won the public competition, was the question for the Prime Minister – what win-win combination will be drawn at Lotou's next draw?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34742	I don't know how to figure this out, this extraction thing, but maybe you won't be pulled out next time than who's picking up? Who did you ask the question to?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34743	First Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34744	Here you go. Sign up for an answer. Hansel Dacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34745	I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here to put extra energy into these answers, although I'm going to tell him your grief that he's not here. Although I don't know if you should call him too much considering how you did last time at the session. But, well, I'm not responsible for the consequences. As for the promise, you know how, it's all checked out in the election. Meanwhile, as you know in 2012 there were elections, in 2014, and as only two coalitions are known to have achieved results that were better than they were at the previous or at least at the level of those who were in the previous elections in 2012. Many of these topics I could comment on, such as the 10,000 Fiat vehicles, given that this is no longer a problem for us but a problem for the customs union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, but I hope it will be okay. You counted 100 promises. I'm sure there's too many of them and it's a program of government work. Therefore, we will see in the end who will be able to figure out what is done and what is not done, or who will rejoice and who will not. I'm convinced that when it comes to these irregularities that you've been talking about, if there are, about the state lottery that it's an obligation for all of us to investigate this issue until the end. Otherwise, both the prime minister and I have repeatedly insisted in the previous period on some status issues and issues of better profits for the state-owned enterprise, but this is now the subject of police and investigative work. Perhaps, on these other issues, one of the other ministers who are resolutely related to these particular areas, but I want one general message to give – this government, I can say that there have been words in the previous government, we had no intention, nor now do we intend to make any false promises that will not be fulfilled. I remember, Mr. Zivkovic, when you made one promise that Serbia would join the EU in 2007, and now it is 2015. Therefore, we can talk about various kinds of promises, but ultimately who is the one who judges it – the people, or the citizens. Just as I said at the beginning of the prime minister's presence, I'm not even sure you should look forward or even make a decision to hold some snap elections, which is not absolutely in the plan. I'm here today on behalf of the Prime Minister to answer those questions I can. Those issues that are not political character, but are resolute, of course they will try to answer other ministers. If there is a need for this, you will also receive additional information, unless a question is covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34746	Thank you. A comment or an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34747	You've replaced the Prime Minister well in one piece, which is that you haven't answered a single question. So when he's present, he has the same manners not to answer. You said you wanted to send a message from here. That's very nice, but today is about answers, not messages. I didn't mention the election, I don't know how it got you to answer me with the election. It may have something to do with the election in your party, but it is a completely irrelevant topic for the Serbian parliament. Generally, the hundred promises made cannot be measured and the character of the people who make those promises and ethics and, as my colleague would say, the ethics of responsibility that must be inherent to every politician necessarily leads to you having to say why something has not been done, there may be objective reasons. The elections themselves are a global assessment of what they think of one government. I'm sure you don't need me to explain. It is true that I said in 2003 that by 2007, we could become a member of the EU if everyone, that's the second part of the sentence, we start doing our job tomorrow. Some have done their job, they have replaced me, so my responsibility for the period from 2004 to today does not exist for European integration. Generally, it's a leap of responsibility over the privilege, surely you and all the government members know that yesterday there's a law here that, I repeat, 680 and a few people who are renters with mahogany at DIPOS, and we know that DIPOS doesn't have its own facilities in Kaludjerica, Ovca and Borca, rather than that it's primarily Dedina and a good part of Vračar, that they will now be the only ones in Serbia who will be able to buy these properties. Of the 7.5 million people, or somewhere, as long as they live in Serbia, only 600 of them will be able to buy these properties without bid, but at the prices someone will estimate. I asked the minister who is not here today, who defended the law, which is Minister Vujovic, to announce who the tenants are, who are these privileged people who can buy those properties. That would be good, maybe we can see some ministers here, and maybe we can see some former ministers. Maybe that's where we see some people who get a variety of whale epithets in this society, let's see who that law was made for. I am waiting for a reply from Minister Mihajlovic regarding Zlatibor and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34748	Thanks, it's been three minutes. We waited for you to finish because we lacked a specific question for a concrete answer. You just said the word "Goldibor," so that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34749	There's no problem. What is important about Zlatibor and the PKK "Glatibor" and the Municipality of Cajetina and the insinuation that there has been an injury of state, or public interest, so the information I have given, and now I will repeat it, first and foremost, in front of the citizens of Serbia. So the damage was not done and the damage could not be done. Among other things, and the five items mentioned are still not final objects and that's what matters. On the other hand, certain information, surveillance of the cathedral has also been made and will be supervised by all other monasteries in Serbia, because it is clear that there are certain problems in the caves in local self-government. The additional information we've come up with has been forwarded to the D.A. and the police, and I believe the public will be informed. What I also think is important at this point, and since you mentioned your promises, I would just tell you that everything that the prime minister in his exposé promised a year ago, we realized and some things even much faster, not even expecting us to make it really one failed financial situation we raised to our feet, and we did it. So if we were to start talking about resolutions and we could talk about it, then we would see that ten times as much is being built, then we would see that the laws that haven't been passed for years have been passed. Therefore, we are ready to discuss each promise in person. Another piece of information you may not know about. Only this year, since January of the month have we passed 94 laws and these are all important laws. Last year we passed 194 laws and we apply them. Those laws live, which I think is the most important thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34750	Thank you. A statement, just two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34751	Of course I'm not happy with the answers and there's some logic, because they were ready for the prime minister and I'm sure he would know that he would find some way that the answer would, of course, not be the right answer and would not contain the facts, but it would be better done. I'm sorry other vice presidents aren't in that capacity to give serious answers. It is not true that everything from the opening statement given by the prime minister when he became prime minister, when he was running for prime minister. The mass of things isn't done and the public knows it. That's not at all the point where I'm talking about it right now. Certainly, no promises that are very important have been made, not only financially, not only spiritually, but ethically. One of those questions is the question of helicopters. What's up with that? It's a question for the vice president...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34752	Ambassador, you have the right to a plea, and you have no right to question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34753	I plead that is an important question, that is my statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34754	No, you have the right to plead on the first two questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34755	So, the answers to the first two questions I have nothing to say since there was no answer...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34756	Then hold back, because you don't stand a chance on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34757	I really don't know why you're doing this. When the Prime Minister's here, you let me ask the question. I don't know who you're defending here right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34758	You were different, you respected the Rules of Procedure, that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34759	You want to punish me now? Please don't, I'm right, this is the most political place in this country. I speak my political views and expect answers from the people who are ministers in the government of Alexander Vukic. I think it's a completely rational expectation. I repeat the questions from the first address to the First Vice President...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34760	Thank you. So, MP, I must educate you, although I am very sorry to interrupt this session. Article 207, you have until next month, until last Thursday, well studied, for the citizens who possibly voted for you. Just for that, not for me. You didn't hear the beginning well, so I have to repeat because of the prime minister who asked me to repeat. They will do everything because they respect parliament and because they respect the citizens who voted for all of us, to show up today, so you can keep your grip for yourselves a little bit longer. Well, he's the only reason I did this, believe me. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I have no doubt. Thank you for not doubting. I apologize to all the MPs for this raid. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34761	Thank you, President. I am the name of citizens who keep speaking to us as MPs, and among other things, where I live, I am surrounded by military pensioners and active military personnel, I am going to ask some questions from the defence minister. If the minister is ready to respond now, I would ask, and if it takes extra time, it won't be a problem. What we learned from the media and from the Ministry of Defence, there are announcements that there will be a return of secondary military schools in school 2015/2016. A year, so I'm interested in what's going to be done specifically and what's going to happen to the training and training centres so far? Second question. Since the last twenty years, and especially for the last seven or eight years, have been abandoned by many barracks, which is a kind of mockery, and we are absolutely aware that these barracks have been made in another period, for a larger country, that there have been numerous problems and that there have been some of our reasons, we often find it in the light of the arranged infrastructure in some barracks and the need for money that is not great to invest in their settlement, and yet given the great interest of the citizens to serve the army, how voluntarily to serve the military, and professionally to deal with, I am interested in what will happen to the barracks in Pirot, Surdulica and Senici? I know some barracks are arranged, but what is the Department of Defense planning on doing about it? Third question. There are many facilities in the barracks that have been destroyed or damaged in NATO bombing, with the greatest loss of several thousand human lives and five thousand wounded. The Serbian Renewal Movement then, in 1999, expressed its political stance and participated in the country's defence and tried to make the damage as little as possible. This disgusting name of the bombing “the merciful angel ” was something that is a fresh wound that follows us to this day. But what we fully support is turning some enmity into friendship, and this government is doing it, and for that, among other things, I am politically supporting this government. I'm interested in what's going to happen to the destroyed or damaged facilities in the NATO bombing barracks. What the prime minister announced in his exposé and what is the regional problem of all countries in the environment is war aviation. Serbia, according to its potential, since it owns planes, some have been remounted, some will be remounted, MiG 29 purchases are announced, some MiGs 21. I'm interested in what the Ministry is planning on restoring the aircraft. What does this specifically mean and how much money is needed for this separation, since it is, I say, a problem that all countries have in the environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34762	Bratislava Gasic has a word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34763	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I thank you for these questions. First of all, High School of War. In 1993, the High School of Military Education was abolished and, behold, after 22 years, we are now returning the first generation of 40 young people, after graduating from primary school, to this secondary vocational military school, and this year we chose to be children who will be sub-officers in aviation tomorrow, right in aviation, where we need these young professional people most. What we expect is that the competition is announced on August 1st and we expect it to be a great deal of interest, first of all because in the past two and a half years, we have ten candidates in military high school, and in one place at the Military Academy we have more than 20 interested. So we expect to be relatively easy and fast, with good and quality candidates, to fill these first 40 places. The second question is the question of an abandoned military barracks. You know that when the army of Serbia was being replaced, then many objects of the Serbian Army were abandoned with the intention of failing on their own and that Serbia could never afford the strength and resources to return to regular military service. Let our initial assessment be that about two billion euros is needed to take care of the facilities and restore them to a state so that we can reintroduce some military service. All the material assets that were in them were sold out, so at this point it's unrealistic to expect. But that is why we are bound by the growing interest of young people in voluntary military service. In 2011, we had 1,100 young people who voluntarily served the military deadline, in 2012, this figure came to 1,300, 2014, 1,800 and, here, in 2015, at this point, we expect to serve around 2,500 voluntarily in 2015. We expect and think, given that there is great interest, that in one place for voluntary military service we have two candidates, that about 2016 or that we introduce six deadlines with 600 members, or that we increase these four total deadlines, the number of members who will serve voluntarily. So, we're sorting out all these facilities. I must today, and because of you people's MPs and for the sake of Serbia's public, thank all the local self-governments that are helping the Serbian Army to take care of their facilities. This year we've hired two new facilities. That's Požega and that's Zrenjanin. These barracks are top-notch, supported by local self-government, for paved runways. Objects are able to do as the Army of Serbia and our members, absolutely conditioned for life, for training and for work. There is also the city of Leskovac, which has helped us very much, there is Bucky Palanka, who has helped us very much. There is the town of Kruševac, also, who has donated a lot, through his public enterprises to get an ABHO centre in Kruševac, which is ranked with the ABHO training centre of the German army and is one of the unique in Europe's territory. As for the possession of new barracks, yes, we said that in 2015 we would launch the process of returning the army to the barracks in Piroth, which was not completely abandoned because our material assets, a barracks in Surdulica, which was completed in 2011, were completely adapted in March of the month, were abandoned in October, and a new boiler room was made in Surdulica, in a barracks in Surdulica was removed and transferred to the south base. Also, in the 2016 plan, there is also a return to the airport of Sjenica, first of all because we are working intensively on making the airport a military-civil airport, so it is our wish that in Sjenica, which you saw yesterday on the means of public information, there are many unexploded means of killing left in 1999 and together with the Norwegian Government we are working on clearing and that move. As far as the NATO bombing facilities are concerned, we have at this time 128 facilities that have remained uncleaned throughout our barracks throughout Serbia. You need to know that in these 128 there are also those we physically removed, but the process of removing material resources is still under way, so by the end of 2015, some 30 facilities will remain unsettled, i.e. unremoved. You saw the drum stream, which for over 16 years stood in the state in which it was left in 1999. Today it is only by means and desire, first of all, the training commands cleared, arranged and in one correct state. In September of the month, I hope to complete the tender for the collapse of the old General Staff bloc. Of course, it's not for those who worry about whether what we're doing, greening in front of the General Staff, is going to bother -- it won't. We're going to work from the inside space of the old General Staff, so let's get this block straight, I hope, by New Year's Eve, after all these years in the state it is. The fourth question you asked was war aviation. You know that we are intensively conducting negotiations with Erbas, primarily on a strategically important project for the state of Serbia. The talks include Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. It's about modernising the G-4 aircraft, a plane with which the former Army of the Old Yugoslavia had very good results, primarily in the export of weapons to third-world countries. We want to go into modernisation together with Erbas, which is neither cheap nor easy nor fast, but these negotiations include Mom Stanojlovic, remont, Gazel, hiring new workers in our remont office. We're thinking and negotiating about buying a transport plane because our transport aircraft is running out of resources. Is it worth more to buy a new transport plane or should these two of our two Antons 26 and 2 extend resources and talk about it with our partners and hope for future strategic partners? Also, we are talking about buying two new Superpuma helicopters from their military helicopter palettes, equipped for search and rescue services, night flying, and with the most modern technique. We are also talking to our Russian partners from Rostroronexport about the purchase of two MiG-117 and MIG-171 b5 helicopters. So that's when it comes to transporting aircraft, and helicopters. As for the MiGs that you mentioned, we have the resources of certain MiG-21 in 2018, and we are thinking of extending the resources we have provided for nine MiG-29, and then their lifetime would be until 2025, or that we should use those funds to buy new MiGs in 2018. It's some number that started in 2012, about six MiGs 29, modernized, means, the latest. So, at this point, the Air Force is certain to have sufficient number of aircraft to carry out its duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34764	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34765	Thank you, Minister. In your answer, you have also touched on these questions, which I wanted to ask because citizens are primarily interested, not only in security, we have adopted here an assessment of national security and a strategy of defence and we know that at some point recently we are not threatened by some war conflicts, but surely that the security of our sky is something that interests us and what citizens are also interested in, what we are in comparison with the environment and how much it costs. We know, let's say, that the Hungarians for the purchase of 30 planes and the modernisation of their fleet have singled out about a billion euros, that the Slovenians who are a super military force are paying about 40m euros to protect their sky, that BiH has not one plane, that Montenegro has not one plane, that even some helicopters and planes have sold something to the Croats, something to us, that the Macedonians four of their Suhoi have landed, that the Croats of 10 MiG 21 is only six in use, and they are also in charge of the debate on these issues, and, as far as I can see, the more present concept of collective security, or regional security. It is something that the Ministry of Defence is, and we supported it, not only in your ministry, but also in previous ministers, all these agreements with the NATO Pact, good co-operation with the Bulgarian and Romanian armies on common security and on common interests. Now what's in charge, it's money. How much is it going to cost and what are the estimates of whether it's more cost-effective to remount it, first of all MiG 21st, or start getting a new fleet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34766	The word is made by Minister Bratislava Gasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34767	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Chikiriz, at no time in the Ministry of Defence or in the Serbian Army, we haven't thought about trusting our sky to guard any foreign aviation. All these investments that we're making right now are precisely that in addition to these planes, which are currently being used, we might have a larger number of these hunting aircraft in the next period until 2018, i.e. until 2025. I'm proud to tell you that at this point, the Serbian Army, of all those countries you've listed, except for Romania, is far, far, far superior, and by the number of technical means and hunting aircraft both in the land and in the river fleet. So, Serbian citizens shouldn't worry about their safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34768	Thank you. Next speaker, Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34769	I was going to ask Prime Minister Vukic a question, but since Mr Dacic is a great substitute, I would ask him a question, besides Mr Dacic, it may be a question for Mr Vulin, as it belongs to his portfolio, it is a matter of migrants and a situation for migrants. The new Horgos 2 border crossing will open tomorrow, but unfortunately all people do not use border crossings but use some other alternative directions for which citizens of the Republic of Serbia have and how big problems, and these citizens are talking to us and expecting us to ask these questions. Since we are not only passing laws, it is the National Assembly and the representative home of Serbian citizens that makes it perfectly normal for me to ask these questions. We think that the citizens of Subotica and, above all, in the territory of the Kanjiz municipality cannot normally live because between 1,000 and 1500 migrants arrive in Kanjiž daily. Fifty meters from the town house in the park are these people. Simply people, the citizens of Kanjiga are unable to take their children to the playground, they cannot use public areas, they cannot live normal lives, because I repeat once again, between 1,000 and 1,500 people are coming to Kanjiž territory. Kanjiza is called a city of silence for decades. Kanjiza has 9,500 inhabitants, residents and the small town comes between 1,000 and 1,500 migrants each day. There are almost every day minor incidents between migrants. Thank God there are no incidents between migrants and the local population, but for just a few reasons before, citizens are slowly losing their patience. I would ask the question – what does the Government of the Republic of Serbia intend to do according to this plan. I know, of course, that this is a global problem that even the EU has no solution for this problem, but I think the citizens of the Serbian government expect the problem and can expect, and Saturday, some financial support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I know, Mr. Vulin, that you're coming to Kanjiz tomorrow, but I wanted to ask the Prime Minister a question, and I would like him to come to Kanjiz and see what kind of condition it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34770	The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34771	Yes, as you know with the President of the Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Pastor and I will visit Kanjiza and Saturday. In fact, in Kanjiža, we open up a reception center but for people from the reading. What we did in Presevo, where we accept people who cross our borders, they enter Serbia. In Canjiza, people returning from the Republic of Hungary are now accepted, under the readmission agreement. The problem is more than complex. The population in Kanjija as well as more in Subotica or any other city, will not have a centre, does not want these people to be placed in the territory of their municipality. According to our positive legal solutions and not only our own, every asylum seekers has the right to move across the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia without any restrictions until his right is established, or rejected or his application for asylum is denied. So we stop these people in that sense to ban them from moving, it's completely off. So these are international rules and that the whole world would be on our heads. Of course, you're right and of course it is a problem for Kanjija. I've spoken to the municipality several times, and what we agreed, we've implemented. So we're going to provide a more civilized approach, the possibility that people are doing their basic human needs, we're doing it tomorrow. That's exactly what we're gonna do tomorrow. So, we're going to provide a simple where they can, let's say, be less present in the city center, where they can be. The same goes for Saturday, and there in the space of the old bricks we'll take care of some sort of accommodation for them, as much as possible. But I'm telling you again, we have no right to stop these people. We give them instructions to go to some of our reception centers, they can, and they don't have to go there. You have no right to order someone behind a fence or a wire. It's just like that. As far as financial assistance is concerned, she's already here. We agreed that we would take over the hygiene, and we provided it. We will also provide assistance to the Centre for Social Work, and through public works we will employ a number of people who will take care of hygiene in Kanjiza, Subotica, Presevo, Zajecaru. So wherever it is necessary, in places that are directly affected by this problem and we do what we can do. Just so our citizens know what the scale of the problem is, 16,500 asylum seekers were registered for the entire Republic of Serbia in 2014. This year alone, 64,022 asylum seekers were registered until July 29th. So look at how many people are seeking asylum in Serbia's space. These people don't want to stay in Serbia, these people don't want to stay in Serbia, they have their own way. We are acting in accordance with the world's highest standards and I must tell you that most of all the costs are borne by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The European Union, other donors, is still not paying attention to our problem to the extent that we should and should pay attention. We have so far received, I will now tell you, from various humanitarian organisations we have received about 40 to 50 thousand euros from UNHCR in food of six million 350,000 dinars, and in the necessary equipment from UNHCR another 11 million 300 thousand dinars. That's all the state of Serbia got. Everything else is covered by us. It's an unsustainable situation, it can't go on longer or shorter, so it goes on. We therefore appeal to the international community to understand that this problem has not made Serbia, so it will not solve this problem. We need help, and we need help now. We will not embarrass ourselves as a people, nor as a land. In the view of the UNHCR and in the opinion of all relevant international organisations, we act as the most organised state on the road to migration. No other state has ever set itself up this organized and this humane. But we need help. We will simply not be able to do this ourselves, not counting the salaries of the police officers you have to remove from, say, Vranj or Vienna, to go to work in Preshevo and issue appropriate documents. Not counting the salaries of military doctors, not counting the salaries of the army on duty in central Presevo, the criminal courts, thank you, not counting how much it costs us the increased presence of our forces at our borders, not counting all of it, we pay about 15,000 euros every day to spend on the migrants who are here. So we don't count all of this on anything, just concrete help, what these people do through food, water, medicine, that, that, that's what costs us directly. It can't go like this and maybe even more than economic problems we have a political problem. The European Union must formulate what it will do with these people, these people will not come to Serbia, they want to join the EU. In my deep conviction, the EU has only two options. It's one thing to help North Africa wars stop, so these people have a place to go back, to have hope again. The second is to take them in. Third, to stay with us, there isn't. It's just not possible. So here and tomorrow we'll see each other, we'll talk tomorrow, we'll go to Saturday and Kanjija, we'll help, as they say, in everything and in the employment of people, who'll take care of hygiene, and that, to calm our public, there's no epidemiological situation under control, there's no disease, there's no disease, there's no disease, there's no disease, there's no infection, there's no other, there's nothing else we can say, healthy. It's good news, but all we do is, of course, avoid as much interference as possible, in the sense that it can come to something. So we're making sure that hygiene care increases, so we're providing increased amounts of hygiene, an increased number of people are going to be employed to take care of hygiene, just so this doesn't happen. So we set up toilets, showers and everything that goes. That's what we can do. We can't handle it secretly. Here's a chance for all of us to think about it together and an opportunity to remind our partners from the international community, winter is on the threshold, in 45 days it's gonna start raining, in 80 days this country's temperature is going to be below zero. So what do we do if this continues and it continues? But here we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34772	Thank you. Extra? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34773	I thank you for your answers. I can also confirm that Kanjiza will not accept the Centre for Migrants or the Centre for Asylum, a place to rest outside the city, for migrants that nothing beyond that is out of the question. These people won't stay in Serbia and that's clear, but every day there are 1,000 to 1,500 people. I don't know, I don't think it's commendable, and it's not good information that migrants consider Serbia a favorite place. Humanity, yes. But I think we should take care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia first and then ask certain questions, how do these people get to Saturday and Kanjija? Are we guarding our southern borders? How are these people coming? Next question, these migrants go through fields, orchards, cause enormous damage to agricultural producers, and who will compensate for that damage to our citizens, to our farmers? When I spoke of financial support, I also meant concrete support for the work of the Public Communal Enterprise, e.g. in Kanjija, because because of the large number of migrants, they have much more work to do, e.g. two large tractor trailers, garbage daily from the park 50 meters from the City House in Kanjija. In catering facilities, there is no room, in post office where money is raised, there are rows of migrants, and that's right here in Belgrade, 100 meters from us in the Main Post, and that's how it is in Subotica, so it is in Kanjiža, so it is in other places. There's no room on the buses for domestics, for our citizens, because it's full of migrants. There are huge losses in tourism, for example. in Kanjiža, it will tell you tomorrow, only in August will there be 4 large events, with about 3000 to 4,000 guests each, and people cancel booking in hotels, in Kanjiža, Banja Kanjiža. Who's gonna make it up to you? That's why I said, of course, that Serbia didn't cause this situation, of course it was a global problem, but I think that the government needs more serious access to solving these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34774	You see, if they built a reception center, anywhere in the north, then the Hungarian state would come out and say, "That's why we're building a wall." That's why we're building a wall, because you're gathering them up there in the north and pushing them across our border. The wall is a problem, a big problem. The wall of those people makes them accelerate and the wall makes them move north. I'll tell you that we're in our centers before the news that the wall will rise, have about 600 users, to call them that, and now we don't have 200, they've run through. We can't stop anyone from moving. And now what you said is that we're guarding our southern borders? Yeah, we're very protective of them, and that's why we're very critical. A significant part of the International Community, it says, you must allow every opportunity to satisfy your elemental and human rights and enter your country's territory. On the other hand, of course, we get this kind of criticism and they say, how can anyone get in and out of your country's territory? It's very difficult to respond to both of these demands. On the one hand, forbid them to enter, and on the other hand respect human rights and allow them to enter the territory of your country. I'd say impossible. We're doing what's possible. To ban people from moving, it's just not possible, and where are we going with them? Should we make them add-on centers? It's not easy. As far as this issue of yours is concerned, you're absolutely right, we're already helping, and that's why through the National Employment Service, through public works, a significant number of people will be employed and they will be paid by the National Employment Service. That's it and that's how it's gonna help anyway. You see, I can't say that these people commit crimes, don't commit, break and break. It's a violation of mahogany for crossing the border, so when they get back in the reading and then they're being prosecuted. But we don't have any reported thefts so far. We don't have any violence. There was violence between them, but there was no violence with the local population, nowhere in Belgrade, Presevo, or in Kanjiza, anywhere. So these people go to some pain and misery, no one's happy about this, but we act and act in the only possible way. There's no other way to stop them from moving, it's not possible. If we were building a collection center, we wouldn't be allowed in the end line, but also a collection center, who's going to pay for it, who's going to be in it? All the things you ask me, I ask the EU incessantly and ask the International Community, and who will pay for their passage? But they're just here and it's up to us to deal with how we can and that's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34775	Thank you. Commentary, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34776	I thank you for your answers, Mr. Vulin and I hope you understand that we are on the same side. It's mine only to run for these problems of thinking and there is no other state authority that should deal with these issues except the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You'll probably hear these things tomorrow in Kanjija from the citizens of Kanjija. I recommend that you not only speak to the president of the municipality, for example, and to the heads of Kanjija, but to the citizens, the people of Kanjiza, and listen to what they say. They're tolerant, compassionate with migrants, but they just can't live normally in a city where they lived half a year ago and they've been living back in normal for decades. As far as crimes are concerned, yes, migrants do not commit crimes, commit certain crimes. I would be very interested in how our police would react if our citizens behave in our parks across Serbia as migrants behave. I think we'd be getting criminal charges. On the other hand, as far as the wall is concerned, as you know Hungary has an ambassador to the Republic of Serbia, it is called Attila Pinter. I believe you know him, ask these questions to him. I'm neither a spokesman for Hungary nor we need to talk about this. We need to discuss the tasks of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's mine to ask, it's yours to answer and I thank you for answering these questions. I hope we can contribute to our joint forces that our citizens in Subotica, Kanjiza, Presevo, and some other local self-governments can live a normal life. Right now, unfortunately, they can't live a normal life 50 meters from the city...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34777	Time. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34778	My question was first referred to, I wanted to refer it to the Prime Minister, but I will refer it to the Minister of Agriculture and Environmental Protection. In the municipalities of Vojvodina, there has been a mass flood of bees, especially in Kikinda and Zrenjanin, which has not been in the past 40 years. Three thousand hives have been poisoned so far and the trend continues, with damage estimated at over half a million euros. The beekeepers are desperate, there won't be honey, and that's their source of income. The determination of the cause of this poisoning is ongoing, but the investigation is still under way, and the poisoning continues. I've been told by beekeepers that the inspection won't do the job until the end, to find out who caused this mass murder, because it's a violation sentence of dragons, from one to three million dinars. It is suspected that the cause of all this is the arbitrary and inadequate use of pesticides that led to this disaster. When in 2012, although the Agency for Chemicals for which the EU equipment bought was formed in 2009, and paid 3.2m euros, including personnel training, etc., in the general hysteria of shutting down agencies and the agency, LSV asked this year to re-establish it to control what chemicals are used in this country and what kinds of imports. However, there was nothing of it and, unfortunately, no one is doing comparisons today, no one analyzes the adverse consequences of such events. After what happened to us about bees, we'll be in a situation where imports from abroad will be made by importers on commission, beekeepers will be left without a source of income, and we won't know what's in that honey. So, the question for you is, who takes care of the type and quality of the chemical from the seeds that are imported? There is evidence that the seed of sunflowers before seed was treated with toxic chemicals. Who cares about that? I also ask the question – what has the Ministry of Agriculture and the protection of human environment taken on this issue since it is responsible for the control of imports of chemicals and seeds and will it compensate for the damage done to beekeepers? Of course, whether it will support the initiative, if it cannot be dealt with, if an agency cannot be formed at the level of the Republic of Serbia, whether the Vojvodina administration can form a chemical agency that will deal with the territory of the AP Vojvodina. That was my question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34779	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34780	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. Indeed, you're right. The beekeeper's damage has been done. There was a killing of bees at certain locations. We're fully aware of the problem, we're monitoring the situation, and we're detecting the causes. I must say, in the previous period, there was a series of meetings of the Department of Veterinary Affairs, Plant Protection, Nature Protection. Everyone analyzed the situation and sought the causes of the problem. I also have to say that there was a suspicion of the use of pesticides, but that the lab's test results showed that pesticides are not the cause of this nightmare. Of course, we've also been looking for super-analysing, and in the next period, super-analyzing will be done. As for your question - who controls the import of seeds and fruit material, I must say that in the previous year we made a major shift when talking about the control of seeds and fruit material. As you know, the National Reference Laboratory has begun its work, and within the complex of this laboratory in Batajnica, we have just equipped a phyto-sanitary ward that is completely controlled by seed and fruit material. So there's no doubt that imported sunflower seeds, as you say there is doubt, were further infected with pesticides and that it could be caused by bees poisoning. It's possible the causes are on other sides. What's important is that we actively analyse the situation, that in the next period we will have more accurate information and that we will inform the public. Otherwise, our warriors, as well as our beekeepers, know what good agricultural practice is and we always draw their attention to the maximum respect for bee sensitivity when it comes to using plant protection. You also mentioned the chemical agency. You're saying she's been suspended. It has been abolished, but it has only been abolished as one special body that has functioned as an independent but all obligations, including equipment, as you say, donated by the EU, and all of those jobs that it had within the Agency have been taken over by the Department of Environmental Protection and today, within the scope of our Ministry, the Department of Environmental Protection of Chemicals is dealing with all of these jobs that you have listed. I'm sure in the next period, we'll have more precise information, and of course, if someone made a failure in the system of control, absolutely certainly, they'll have to bear the consequences, or they'll have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34781	Do you want a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34782	The only thing I didn't get was answers to questions about who poisoned the bees and who's gonna pay for it. I would like to refer the second question to the minister of construction, transport and infrastructure related to the Fruskogorski Corridor, who, according to her statements in the municipality of Irig, was returned to the priorities of rebuilding the roads in Serbia in the next four years. So the questions are: how is the activity on the construction of this corridor progressing, since the province has no jurisdiction for this category of roads, but it will finance the development of an idea project of this corridor on which the tunnel is located through Fruska Gora? How will work worth around 100m euros continue to be financed and when is work expected to be completed? During the adoption of the "Belgrade on Water" Lex, we asked whether a Lex specialis would be brought for the construction of a tunnel through Fruska Gora. The prime minister said this job does not require a lex specialis, as it is a small-value project compared to "Belgrade on Water" and that we can finance it ourselves. That's why I'm asking how they're doing on this little job? Also, what about financing the entire road network in Vojvodina, since maintaining the second row roads was transferred to the province, but not financing? In the town of Lacarac, in the municipality of Sremska Mitrovica, the Republic had jurisdiction over the master's way through that place, but the works never began. Traffic participants complain that they have dental problems in the course of the movement, as their fillings drop when they pass this route, and car shockers suffer serious damage. The situation is also complex on the roadway between Ruma and Novi Sad, where trucks pass through Irig, and sometimes the tow truck flies into the yard. On the way to Zrenjana's people are still dying. So, I had to get rid of all this by tomorrow because the finance minister, as far as I'm concerned, from the prescribing dealing with Vojvodina's funding, was able to find out, this is a prescribing on the financing of Vojvodina. So this is all that's been published in the media written about the financing of the Vojvodina. I'll show you one more time. This is, therefore, everything that has been published in the media about the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Where do you think that's paid? Who's going to pay for it and will anyone pay attention to this kind of nonsense, which is to transfer the intelligence, not the means? I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34783	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34784	Since no funds have been transferred, since no road maintenance company has been established in Vojvodina... Suddenly Canak from the place: Of what money? )......................................................................................................... I was nice, and I waited for you to ask, so now you let me say it, and then you're free to ask me again. So, the maintenance of the roads in Vojvodina as well as in all of Serbia will work for the public company "The Ways of Serbia" from the public company "The Road of Serbia". That there are problems in security, i.e. in unsustained roads above all, you are absolutely right, not only in Vojvodina but in all of Serbia. That last year we spent a lot more money on rehab and flood repairs, and that's true. Therefore, everything we do throughout Serbia we do, first and foremost, in Vojvodina. As for the Frushkogorski Corridor, a public call for project technical documentation was called two weeks ago. We expect the paperwork to be completed by March of next year. Everything we've done in preparation, we've been working with the province's secretariat on project-technical documentation and our expectation that from next year, in the middle of the year, we'll start working on the French Corridor. How we fund it and what funding model will be at the Fruscogorian Corridor, that's something to discuss right now. Now we're just doing project technical documentation that I don't have complete. So, over the next few months or whatever, by the end of March, we'll also talk about the model of funding and construction. So far, the funding model hasn't been defined yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34785	Would you like a comment? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34786	I'll say it again. How can a company be formed in Vojvodina when no money has been transferred? And that story about how the duchess administration didn't do something, and she could have done it, at the same time constantly avoiding the transfer of funds to all of it, just doesn't stand. That is why I think that this attitude should be reconsidered to the citizens of Vojvodina who suffer, for example, as citizens of Lazarka, the situation in which, because of this condition, they are literally cut off from the world by the poor quality of roads. And if I have time, just one more little remark that would apply, since we're already talking about roads and these immigrants going through these paths. This story about someone wanting to, and someone isn't going to emigrants on their territory to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34787	My bad, turn yourself back on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34788	I apologize, Madam Chairman, did you say you made a mistake? I've got to tap you, bravo. So, this story about immigrants disrupting the normal life of Serbian citizens is quite logical, but it also wants to happen when a tsunami occurs or when a flood also threatens normal life, and our neighbours in the EU, let's say in the Republic of Hungary transport them through their territory in locked wagons. You know what, the end of the tracks where the locked cars usually drive to the crematorium, and that's what I'd be seriously ashamed of if it happened in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34789	Thank you. The next MP is Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34790	I have a few questions for the Minister of Health, Zlatibor Lonchar. My first question is why are humanitarian actions still being organised to raise funds for the treatment of children abroad, since last year the Government of the Republic of Serbia set up a budget fund to treat disease and injuries that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia? Another question of mine is the treatment of citizens from cancer. In fact, 30,000 citizens get cancer every year, 50% of them go to chemo. We miss the radiation machines and their treatment. She's waiting about two and a half months for radiation. According to the data that I have, seven million Serbian citizens, seven and something, there are about 13 radiation appliances, and the world standard is for 250 thousand to be one radiation apparatus. That's my question for you -- when is the Kamenica Institute going to get these radiation machines, since we've been waiting over two years for their purchase? As far as I know, there were about five, six tenders that were down. What's the problem, and when is the Kamenica Institute going to get radiation machines?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34791	Thank you. The word is Dr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34792	As for the first question, I think a significantly smaller number of actions to raise money for the treatment of children abroad. I'd like to explain to you why these actions are being organised. I think the basic thing is if you want to do something and what we organized this fund for, to help these kids, but to help anyone, to spend any money, there must be certain rules and they have to be fulfilled in order to be able to give that money and to pay. It is not possible and everyone should know that it is not enough for you to come and file a request with some scarce documentation and get money without any verification of that documentation and without a commission meeting that has to justify spending that money. For this reason, people will not report to this fund because they have to collect, exhaust all the opportunities that exist in Serbia, that we have the conclusion of a doctor who led that child, who examined that child, that we do not have the opportunity in Serbia to help that child and that we have a proposal where to help that child, then that we have an answer from abroad, a memo that wants to receive that child and that there is a chance of improving the state of health or to cure that child and how much it costs. I really think that these are the basic rules that need to be done because it's impossible, like the other funds that work, on an honorary word to give money that someone goes to be treated and that you don't have any insight after that. I want to remind you that there are two committees in this fund plus a monitoring board that controls all of this, that everything is publicly available, that it's transparent and that at any moment you can see how much money there is and how many children have gone to treatment. About the fund, I'll tell you by now what's been done. There were 41 requirements for overall treatment abroad. So far, 10 children have been treated abroad. Three requests have been rejected because adequate documentation has not been provided, and other requirements are in the review phase and most of them will be approved. To obey only procedures and children will go to treatment. That's part of it. The second part is that out of 15 requests for diagnostics 13 have already been sent and diagnostics have been made abroad, or 12, while a procedure for sending is ongoing. And here I have the funds that are currently available on 10.7.2015, as far as the fund is concerned. It's rile2.003 plus we have a foreign exchange account with the same 17. 341 euros in the account of funds available for children who need treatment. So, I think this fund has fulfilled what it's organized for. We just don't want to go out with those kids and their parents. That's their problem, that's their pain. They come after every treatment and they thank each other. Most of these kids are cured, and now they're doing just fine, and they're looking at every way to support this fund and help other kids. What I want to point out once again is that there are precise procedures here that have to be respected and respected, so that tomorrow there will be no doubt, because it is still one budget fund, and even if it is not about it, the funds come from all other sides and these funds have to be justified. Now, that's why someone doesn't decide to go this way, to go to this fund that's absolutely safe, but they're making some other actions because they simply want to bypass that procedure that needs to be respected. As for your second question about accelerators, I must tell you that a few days ago, a contract was finally concluded after about two years of tendering for Kamenica for accelerators. A contract was signed for three accelerators, and I hope there are other means to sign contracts for the fourth accelerator. I hope by New Year's Eve these accelerators are installed, ready to work and help people. To inform you that there are four more accelerators in the procurement process, two of which are for Nis, one for Kragujevac and one for Belgrade. According to the dynamics foreseen by the public procurement process, I think that by August 15th, contracts should be signed, if all is well, for those four accelerators. Also, let me inform you that the World Bank's loan is under way, where we hope that the minimum will be eight or nine accelerators, again I say about Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac and possibly Kladovo, with the process being a little longer, because it's done by the World Bank rules, they run the whole procedure. Then I think with these three sets of procedures, we'll have resolved waiting lists and they won't be available for radiation anymore. So after a long time where nothing was done, we did everything we could to speed it up, and I think that's what people see. I don't want to talk in advance, but I'm waiting for it to be installed. I want to remind you that a gamma knife begins in early September, so I think by the end of this year we'll have a lot of new things to do with patients with malignancies.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34793	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34794	As for your answer to the first question, I would agree with you that the most important thing is that the budget fund, set up by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the means available, is transparent and accessible. That's what I think is most important. Somewhere I can agree with the parents of sick children who in all this trouble are difficult to complete, but I understand completely both doctors and the Ministry that certain conclusions, opinions of doctors and findings must exist in order to justify and invest in their treatment. The most important thing is, as you said, that the Fund justifies its existence and that our children are being treated abroad. As for the answer to your second question, it looks forward to the fact that radiation devices will soon arrive for the treatment of our citizens affected by cancers and at the Institute of Vojvodina and Nis and other parts of the country. It's really a big problem that radiation and treatment are two and a half months apart for people with cancer, so that's the good news. I think it'll make it easier for them to heal. I'd like another question for you. You recently announced the co-operation of the Ministry of Health with Cuba in the field of health, especially when it comes to lung cancer vaccines and diabetic foot treatments. When will this realization take place? It is widely known that Cuba in the area of health records very significant results in the world, that their Ministry of Health really has a huge flow of budgets due to their progress in medicine. I think that because of the traditional good relations with Cuba, we can learn a lot from them, but I would also say that we can share experiences with them, given that Serbia has "Gallenika" and "Torak" and many professional doctors who have knowledge and experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34795	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34796	I have to tell you that after my visit, our delegation went there to talk directly, our experts to talk to them, and that went well. I'll tell you on today how things are. We need to sign an interstate agreement. It's now in their government, she's considering whether she wants to change something in that part or not. I hope they promised to come forward in the next week or two. As soon as we sign that agreement, we're going into procedure for two medications. It's this vaccine for lung cancer and diabetic foot medicine. They were correct and they sent us everything about those two drugs. They even sent out all the necessary protocols to get us ready in time, how they apply, who they apply to, and that we have time here, because we're already starting to form places where these drugs are going to be applied. You'll know that, of course, because that interstate agreement is signed by the government, and I think the Assembly is verifying it. So that's what we have to do. If it is now in this next period, I think it is September that month when we can expect that vaccine and medicine to be in Serbia, but, I say, on the condition that we sign this in the next few weeks. The health ministry has already prepared a team, has already prepared places, people who will be dealing with this, who are already being educated according to what we got, and literally ten days ago we received the most extensive information, official information about these medicines and everything that is necessary to know, who are all candidates for the use of these medicines, etc. So we're preparing not one, but more centers where we can do it and where our people will be able to apply these drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34797	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34798	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, first of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the ambience he created in Serbia for the arrival of investors and, in the last six months, a much greater interest in the arrival of investors than it was in earlier years. I can freely say that Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dacic are peacemakers in the Balkans and that the departure of Mr. Vukic to Srebrenica and the arrival of high-ranking BiH officials has a very large echo and good, that is, how to express myself and to be understood, what our people would say – a good message is heard far away. The issue first for Minister Dacic – why do Kosovo Albanians not respect the Brussels Agreement, in just those points concerning stability and what is important for Serbs and the Serb people living in Kosovo and Metohija? A question for the Minister of Education – can individual courses in secondary schools change if certain directions do not have a future when students finish high school, when they have no place to work? A question for the Minister of Agriculture and a proposal – by emergency procedure you need to inform the agricultural producers, which was not in the past years, which is what it would be good for farmers to meet in 2016, to have a certain price and a guaranteed buyer. The question for Minister Vulina - are you thinking, after these measures, of making such a proposal where those good managers, good directors in state, social and public enterprises and local self-government would benefit? It is not enough just to determine the coefficient and to have someone who has a high level of professional equipment sitting in an office all day, and that his colleague has to prepare projects, go to the field, realize etc. That way, if we did that, we would stop the brain from going to Europe, and that is today the biggest problem. Furthermore, there is no motivation for young people to finish certain colleges when they see that with that direction their colleague has 50-60 000 dinars of salary. A question for the finance minister – is there a financial possibility for such a thing in 2016? We can freely say that these measures will deliver a certain result and mention surpluses in the budget. Furthermore, to monitor the work of local self-government and that local self-governments, such as in Jagodina and a dozen other cities, I want there to be surpluses in every city, but the state surplus depends on filling the budgets of local self-government, not that these cities help, but that these cities give advice to those cities where there is a deficit. I just want, as an MP and as a gentleman, to protect Mrs. Zorana, a minister whose resistor is on strike every day, and that those who criticise her are wrong, because it's the hardest resort from all the resources in the Ministry that she's leading and that each of us would like to build a house, a factory at a crossroads, at some good location, and that you, ministers, should...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34799	Time. Thank you. You're the only one who finishes the sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34800	... Not to defend each other, the biggest victim was Mr. Dacic, on all front pages, with lies, here, now Mrs. Zorana, well, I don't know, the Minister of Health, so the minister of the military, and if you allow us MPs to lie about you...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34801	Time, I have to interrupt. Thank you. The word has Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34802	Mr. Markovic asked me a question about the Brussels Agreement, about the behaviour of Kosovo Albanians. All these events concerning the implementation of the Brussels Agreement confirm that the Albanian side in Kosovo and Metohija needs to, for internal political reasons, obstruct the coming to an agreement in order to fully implement the Brussels Agreement. I will remind you that the most significant part of the Brussels Agreement that has not been implemented is the Serb municipality community. On the other hand, the ultimatum stands before the Kosovo parliament that they must make a decision on the Special Court for War Crimes, given that there are certain disagreements in the ruling parties. It's mostly the victim of all that dialogue in Brussels. Unfortunately, the dialogue in Brussels, when it comes to Serbia, is one of the key political criteria for progress in European integration. In this regard, our insistence on the consistent application of the Brussels Agreement is clear. Serbia has respected and will respect everything it has signed. The main force of the Brussels Agreement is precisely in the formation of the Serb municipalities community, the first way and the form of the organisation of the Serb people living in Kosovo and Metohija, and that is why we will insist on it until the end. You have seen that the Pristina side is using every situation to disrespect the agreement, to apply outside of the agreement in Brussels for membership in organisations that have not been the subject of any talks, such as UNESCO. We will do everything we can to make it known to all the member states of UNESCO that it would be political, not only political, but also from the point of view of the world's cultural heritage, a harmful move. I wrote to the Secretary General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon. It is expected to hold a session of the UNESCO Executive Council in autumn, a general conference in November, but before that, the United Nations should give an opinion on it. That is why, I think, it is very important that all both cultural institutions and the Ministry of Culture and the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Serbian Academy of Sciences etc. They participate in a joint diplomatic struggle to preserve Serbia's cultural heritage, which is not only Serbian because four objects, I say, are protected by UNESCO. That is why it is important to prevent, simply, the historic revision, because the main intention of proposing such an initiative is that Serbian cultural heritage becomes, in fact, Kosovo. All those who participated in the dialogue, some of them sitting here, the prime minister is now conducting this dialogue, we are witnessing that Pristina comes very often to these meetings with a desire not to agree, with a desire to simply not come to any agreement. We are in a situation where we too are suffering the consequences of such a policy of Pristina, but that is why we seem to have made it clear to international factors that Serbia has become a constructive factor, meaning, not a problem, but a factor in solving the problem, to act as a predictable partner and to make what we agree, to realize it. Serbia has not changed its principled position and we point out that constantly, which is that we do not absolutely recognise Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Such a unilateral act cannot be legalised because it violates the basic principles of international law. So, you know, when the American president says and calls on all countries in the world not to recognise Palestine before Palestine deals with Israel and the United States recognises Kosovo before Pristina has agreed with Belgrade without any agreement. If in the OSCE you have almost every meeting of claims that the basic principles of international law of Ukraine are now violated, we cannot forget and ignore the fact that it was first done on the case of Serbia. Serbia certainly cannot defend territorial integrity anymore, and we respect this principle, we cannot defend other countries' territorial integrity more than we defend Serbia's territorial integrity. Such a policy will continue to be continued by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34803	The word has Minister Verbic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34804	The President-in-Office, dear MPs, dear Mr Markovic, answers the question whether they can change directions or educational profiles is certainly – yes. They change, they change for years, they change every year. Every year we have new profiles. Here, only this year is 19 new updated programs translated from pilot phase to regular system. So we have every year, especially in high school, new programs. Why are there no more students on those programs? Why many of them don't apply to those profiles is one completely different question. I think we need to deal with this issue first. It's not that hard to write a new program. What's much harder is to equip the school to have equipment, to have labs, to have a teaching staff for a certain new profile. That's what we need to pay more attention to and where we need to invest more. So it's not enough for us to create a new profile. We must first of all demonstrate that there is a capacity in these schools for students to do so. However, the list of conditions we need to meet does not end. It's important to provide practice for those students. We have, as you probably know, quite a number of secondary vocational schools, even more than other countries in the region, more than anywhere in Europe. Seventy-five percent of our high schools are high schools. So our students like to go to high school, they don't like high school. However, secondary vocational schools are mainly chosen by students because it makes it easier for them to get to higher education, not because they are particularly interested in a particular area. So when we're talking about high school, and I'm guessing your question was right in that direction, it's a question of why we don't have any more students in craft schools, which represent only one part of high school. Well, there's the most important factor in whether the students want to choose that direction or not. We are witnessing that this year, even though the departments of carpenters, winemakers, machin locksmiths were open, where quite a small number of students decided to go to those secondary schools. We can't force anyone to go to school. They don't need to underestimate these young people, they make pretty good decisions based on what they see in their environment. So if someone estimates that with the interest of the carpenter they won't be able to make a special career -- they won't even be able to enroll that school. So we have to go back to what we said before, we have to have more practice. Every school, every high school must have a partner in the economy. I think that in due course, we're going to have to tighten the conditions for forming a department and forming, in general, an organisation of certain profiles in high-school schools and we're going to have to tie it to whether there really is a contract with some company where practice would be performed. That's what we need. So if the school is unable to provide its own practice in a company, and it deals with secondary vocational education, then the question is whether we need such a school. What we can still do, and we're working on it, is end the national qualification framework. The National Qualifications Framework, first of all, needs to describe the knowledge and skills that anyone should have at the end of a certain educational profile, when they get a degree. First of all, we need to ask the employers what they think about it. At this point, it takes the formation of sectoral councils, where employers will primarily describe what knowledge and skills we need at the end of a certain secondary school. There's no need for people from the administration to do that. People who are employers know much better what they expect from their future colleagues. We therefore have great hopes in the work of these professional councils, after which, around the New Year, we expect the final adoption of the National Qualifications Framework and the National Qualifications Framework Act that would finally explain to employers what a diploma means to anyone with a certain degree should know, that is, what he needs to know and what he has achieved through his education. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34805	I thank Minister Verbic. Mr. Markovic, do you want an additional question? Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34806	I would ask for the answers of the Minister of Agriculture, i.e. Minister, Minister of Labour and Minister of Finance, after I asked them questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34807	Here you go. The word is made by Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34808	Thank you. Dear President, honourable MPs, Mr Markovic, the question you have referred me to only seems simple, is essentially a very complex issue. You asked me a question, what would I recommend to farmers to meet next year and what can I promise them when it comes to buying agricultural products and prices. The issue is extremely difficult, especially difficult for the minister of agriculture in Serbia, given all the specificities of our country's agriculture. On the one hand, we have Vojvodina, a large space on which intensive war production can be established, and on the other hand we have mountain-mounted areas of southern, central and eastern Serbia. Given the different options, given the different agro-economic opportunities, tradition, anything that monitors agricultural production is not possible to give a unique answer. In any case, as Ministry and I as Minister in each part of Serbia, I recognise certain specificities, certain potentials, and I think that, as Vojvodina has them when it comes to wartime production, which in the coming years should be the pillar and support for the development of livestock production, as well as our areas in the east, in southern Serbia have the potential to develop production, such as the production of a product bearing the designation of geographical origin, the production of organic products and so on. In any case, we as the Ministry, our professional services, agricultural professional services, advisory services, and we will include active agricultural colleges, scientific institutes to help our farmers when they ask for help. You know very well that our farmers think they have enough experience in what to sow. It is up to us to help them achieve greater yields, to have more profitable production. Our calculations say that only if we increased the yields of war cultures, industrial plants, if we increased production, say, of a milk cow by 10%, as well as the yield of these cultures that I have listed here, by 10%, we could provide more income than agriculture by about 150 million euros. So it's up to us to help our farmers be more profitable. It is up to us to pass on expertise to them, to convey and knowledge to them the need for association, because our property is the current size of 5.4 hectares per land on average, which as such is still divided into three and more parcels, certainly does not provide a sufficient basis for the development of modern mass production required by the economy of scale. You know very well that when you're a small producer and you're independent on the market, you don't have many chances. These chances will be less and less in the coming years, and that is why we have stepped up the work to explain the importance of association as we have stepped up the work on the drafting of the Law on Co-operation. Our goal is to organize small producers, to bring them together, to be stronger, to be a more profitable factor on the domestic market, and also on the foreign market. We have agreed export procedures with many countries from the environment and the closer and further. You know, that we have agreed export procedures with Russia, that we have agreed with China, with the CEFTA countries, but unfortunately we are not achieving the results that we could achieve, given all these possibilities, precisely because we do not have enough quantities. It's a good thing we have a better score this year than we did in the previous year. We have larger exports, a larger share of surpluses compared to last year when it comes to agricultural and food products. This is what gives us optimism and gives us hope that indeed agriculture will become a really important sector of Serbia's economy very quickly, as it is today, but that in the coming period its share and its importance will be even greater. As for the price, unfortunately, we can't affect the prices of agricultural products, you know that. The state of Serbia left the system of impact on agricultural and food prices in 2002, simply our producers are now on the free market. The price depends on supply and demand, but because of this we see our ability to help farmers by, as I said, helping them produce cheaper, making a higher contribution and making better results than they are currently accomplishing, as a united, organised, with specific products from certain areas. I thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34809	Thank you, Mrs. Boskovic. Anyone else want to answer Mr. Markovic's question? Please, Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34810	I thank you for two inspiring questions that completely coincide with that part of the Ministry of Finance's work, which concerns the future. We most often talk about the past and the current problems in this House, and these are now about the future. Not getting into the details of the projects you mentioned, I'd like to say that we are in a critical phase of re-launching the transition to programming. This was started in 2005 in five or six ministries, as they joined together and it is difficult to say which number and then the whole process was stopped. We will surely have to have full programming budgeting until EU accession, and we intend to take a step in that direction this year. And what does that mean? If there were no programming, the answer to your question would be in this difficult situation, it's certain that the money has very little and that it's hard to find the funds. If we take a step towards programming, then we have a chance to look at projects based on what they offer, based on efficiency and on the content of the programme and not only that, but based on all the elements of the programme. We want to overcome the existing view of investment only in physical means, only in infrastructure, only in buildings, we want to expand this to knowledge, innovation and all other key things that define the success of these projects in the future. Therefore, the proposal is to take a step further from your ideas and take a look at them together with Minister Vulin and see that in light of the evaluation of the efficiency of these projects we are looking for a place in the budget. You see that the existing 50 billion at the level of the Republic budget, and 123 billion capital expenditures expected at the level of the general government budget, we fail to realize, in part, because we are not planning well enough, partly because we do not record all investments in the right way, and in part because we do not have access to projects and all elements. At the same time, we have 3.7 billion unused funds for projects and poor use of funds, parts of those funds planned for the 2015 budget. So I expect a significant effort, not only on our side, but together with donors and others, to raise the level of knowledge and willingness to move on to programming. In short, what does that mean? That means Mr. Lonchar was talking about things in health care. We are currently in the Republic's budget when we talk about health care, watching only equipment financed from the Republic budget, not looking at the rest at all, homes of health, hospitals where it will be implemented, people who will work on it, which is something that defines both the need and guarantees success and gives the performances that we expect from these projects. So the thing is, in principle, simple, and in practice, it's very difficult. We need to overcome the restrictions between the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the Republic budget and look at it, that synergy that will give us what we want. Your second question is also related to an ongoing initiative, so we have the last four months of working group preparing a conceptual basis in the Law on the financing of local self-government. The project at concept level wants to come up with a proposal that will make adjustments in the system of funding local self-government and put in one place the continent and correct some things that have happened for political reasons for the last five, six years. What's this about? You know that our system of funding local self-government has part of the established tax instruments and part of which is the original incomes of local self-government. We want the funding system to recognise both the fiscal effort and the need for unification between municipalities, depending on the level of development, but also the fiscal effort of municipalities. So what we're saying is that those municipalities that are more successful in recording, cutting taxes and collecting tax revenues, are rewarded by a larger share in the transfers of their incomes and everything else. The element that you mention that successful municipalities are, not only to get proper treatment, but also to be a source of knowledge, a source of way of managing the budget, a source of ways to cut and collect taxes is extremely important to me, and should extend this approach to the continent, means that this quality of fiscal relations, between the Republic and the locals, is raised to a higher level, that we also recognize the quality of projects, because these projects that municipalities are doing, are largely not recognized in the right way. Therefore, not only do I support your idea, but I want to fit it into the preparation of this law and connect it to the programming budgeting. I'll be free to speak to you as soon as we have a draft of this text of the law, before we let it have a public debate to give us your suggestions on how we can extend it and specify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34811	Here you go, commentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34812	I am very pleased with Mr Vujovic's reply. He just has two questions for the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34813	I'm sorry, no more questions, just a comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34814	No questions, since Mr. Minister found out what the problem is, how can we solve the problem of today's high school kids enrolling 94% of colleges and all coming with college diplomas and wanting to work in the profession, where factories are opened, they can't all be employed in offices. So that's one problem. Another problem you said, that there is no practice, there should be volunteering or professional practice that while students are studying also have practice. Just to ask you to try some survey, that 80% of the graduates of economic college have a degree in dpc, and they don't know what a calculation is, to make a calculation. What do diplomas mean to us when these young people didn't have anywhere to learn it? I'm telling you this because every day I have a contact, in Jagodina it's open, that's ten contracts for ten foreign investors, six factories are being made at this point, and four of them are going to start making up the next day and we don't have anyone to hire, who's going to work in those factories? The problem will occur in other cities, in major cities that have investors. When it comes to the answer of the Minister of Agriculture, I am pleased with the answer. I didn't think the state would give a guaranteed price, but simply as information, and the state can't guarantee a guaranteed price at this point to agricultural producers, but since you're doing statistics and you know how much meat, potatoes, beans are imported in Serbia, then let's tell our farmers - next year you're producing beans, potatoes, calves, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34815	Time, thank you. The word is Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34816	I thank the honourable president, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have several questions for the Minister of Labour, Employment, Social and Combat Affairs, Mr Vulin, Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovicki, and Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. The first question concerns, of course, the effects of the law which is essential to the party whose member I am, therefore, SDPS, which is the amendment and addition of the Labour Act, so here I think only a year has passed since the vote for the law in parliament. We believe that this law is in fact one signification of the start of the difficult reforms that the prime minister started when he took office in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, after that came the adoption of key laws, such as the Law on Planning and Construction, the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Excessiveness, the very important Law on Inspectives, and I will talk about it later, but also the amendments and additions to the Labour Act were crucial to what has been happening in our country in the previous year, and as regards new investments, incentives for both domestic and foreign investors to invest in Serbia and the possibility that our country is making as much as 30 places on the Duing Business List of the World Bank. I would ask you to do just a little labing, which are the effects of the Law on working on young people, who were unemployed, who were over 50 years old, on heavily employable target groups. The second question concerns the problem of migrants and I to you, and especially Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, I congratulate you for having not a Pharisee, but a Samaritan attitude towards migrants. These same migrants are people who have escaped from the greatest evil that has been happening in the global hay for the past few decades, as regards the functioning of the Islamic state of Iraq and Levanta. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has shown by the relationship and treatment of these people that the state that is highly esteemed and respected is the standards of human, minority, religious and any other rights. I ask you to tell me and answer me what the government's further strategy will be, in that sense, what is the communication with the EU like? Of course, in that sense, I would ask Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, given her good position and her communication with representatives of the European Union institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34817	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34818	Thank you. We passed the labour law a long time ago, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, remember that marathon session exactly a year and a day ago. This is a real opportunity to discuss the effects of the Labour Law, or what the Labour Law showed. I would answer your questions from the most fierce criticisms that were then made at the expense of the Labour Act. One of them was that it would cause a wave of mass layoff. You remember that there was – there will be mass layoffs, the law will allow the economy to devastate, people to be thrown out into the street, to start mass layoffs. The numbers are inexorable when it comes to firing. So, in 2014, it was employed, based on a labour poll, 1.623/17 employees. Of course, please, if we didn't, if we were to immediately warn any debates, the number of employees was higher. This is where those who are employed on certain, undefined, seasonal and contracted temporary and occasional transactions come in, but let's just say we don't introduce stand-alones here. So you don't have employers here, for example, you don't type them in, so you know that's the difference. After the Law on Labour was passed, 1,734,585 people were employed in this country yesterday. That's a 6.5% increase. Not that there was no mass layoff, but there was a significant increase in employees. We can now discuss which branches, where they have all been employed, to the extent that they are employed from the gray zone, and to what extent they are new jobs, but that is the effect of the Labour Act, because we have changed the full position and position of labour inspection, so labour inspection behaves in a different way, has different powers, has access, among other things, to the register, to the central register of mandatory social security and works far more efficiently. Only based on the inspection solution, directly, on nine thousand and 572 workers who found themselves working on black in one period, were employed by six thousand 558, based solely on a solution, and where is the effect of respect? Where does the employer's effect know that it will happen, that work inspection will come, that things have changed? Based on such an effective relationship with the labour inspection, I can gladly tell you that unconscious employers are becoming less unconscious, that we have less and less work to do in this regard, but that 119 million dinars are being paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of misrepresentations that labour inspection law can now bring and now pronounce. She couldn't do that before. And it's significantly improved. We, the Labour Act, as a brand-new institute, have introduced the possibility of not paying the profits being settled on the basis of a checklist issued to the worker and issued as a public document. So you don't have a lawyer anymore, you don't have expensive court disputes, it's enough to get you to court and show you the right thing, and that's that. 1,317 cases were received in basic courts in the Republic of Serbia and 678 cases have already been completed, and 639 cases have been paid to workers by 79,090,000 outstanding wages. And that's the effect of the Labour Act, of course it is. You asked for more difficult employment categories, just so you know that on the National Employment Service's record, it's 6.9% less young than it was last year. So, in particularly difficult employment categories, there are shifts. When we introduced such a criticised severance payment provision only with the last employer, we were attacked for it, but the effects were shown and are now easier and more often employed unemployed for over 50 years, because the employer is not afraid that he will have to pay his full-time compensation, but for loyalty to the last employer when he retires, and he is essentially pre-retired. So the Labour Act for these years has shown that there has been no mass layoff, that it has increased employment, that it has improved the investment environment, that it has improved the business climate, that it has been on the side, as it is on the side of workers, because here I am talking to you about several concrete measures that have significantly improved the position of workers. Now let me tell you right now that it's in the Labour Law for the first time, and these are effects, these are things that will never change, clearly specified what are the conditions to conclude, how you get, how you lose a working relationship. Feel it right away in a small number of work disputes, because people know in advance how to behave, and the worker, and the employer, and the employee and employer. The labour law has already shown in these years that it was worth bringing, that it significantly improved the market compared to the previous labour law certainly. I can't help but remind that the law, which was so praised and defended in this same assembly, received such criticism right in the Council of Europe when some were very pleased, thinking that this criticism was addressed to this Labour Act. No, this labour law has been welcomed. This is a good labour law. He gave the results, most importantly, he helped improve employment. Once again, I thank the congregation’s majority, who supported the Labour Law, despite such noise and anger. The noise and the anger are over, but the rest are effects and you were right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34819	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34820	First of all, honourable Member Marinkovic, thank you for saying that I have good positions in European institutions, but believe me, my good positions are only because this government is doing well and responsibly and that this Parliament is doing well and responsibly, and that is what is always recognised. For us ministers, among other things, as responsible people, above all, and in some way responsible before this Parliament, but also responsible for international partners in terms of European integration, that is all we do well to represent and do well. As far as migrant issues are concerned, this is indeed a matter that is one of the EU's top priorities. Of course, we're a candidate country, and it's an important enlargement policy for us, but we can't avoid it, and we're part of all of these streams that, in a way, entangle the whole of Europe. We're a transit country, and that's why we came back into focus. Is that good or bad? It also has its advantages, it also has its weaknesses, but in any case migration policy is a good test on which the candidate country, and in this case we, as a country, are proving to be a responsible partner and everyone in the EU recognises it. There are no finished solutions in the EU either. It's not just money. Money is important he will solve acute problems and help people who seek refuge, who flee from the war of the affected areas, get everything that belongs to them under international law and humanitarian law, but on the other hand, we are facing, as a country of transit, what is Europe's biggest challenge today, and these are false asylum seekers. In addition to those who, mainly legitimately seeking asylum from Syria, we also face a large number of those who from our country and Western Balkans, because of material needs, seek asylum in the countries of Western Europe, the EU and then, as a responsible partner, we have to implement a clear Schengen policy of what EU standards are, strong border controls and, at the same time, inclusive and informative, if I can say so, activities that we will actually explain to people that they may not be worth seeking asylum in this way, because a brief process in the readmission process will be returned. It's very important and it has to show efficiency as harshly as it sounds, but it's simple rules and procedures and we're working on it. Just something about the EU's assistance to Serbia, as this has been discussed in terms of European aid. It is precisely because the existing mechanisms are not enough, although we have received funding from the national and these pre-accession funds that we often talk about, so also for an asylum centre worth 2.3m euros for 2014, and sixm euros for those categories of persons in the readmission process, at the same time, perhaps just a month, a month and a half ago, counterpart Stefanovic, Minister of the MUP and I, sought and received an additional 2.5m euros, for field vehicles, thermal cameras and uniforms for what is in some way additional border control. At the same time, there are other mechanisms that can be triggered in collaboration with the Red Cross. Of course, nothing will solve it absolutely and it will not be a possible solution. After all, as my colleagues said and, you know, those people who are going somewhere, it's gonna be hard for anyone to stop, but it's up to us to show that we really respect the standards and to do what's up to us. Our people have shown a high level of empathy and human relationships and we need to be proud of it, I really mean it, and of course we apply those standards that we have to. I would just add, precisely because of the EU's recognition of the land route, so 70% of migrants come by land route through Turkey, Greece, and even partly Bulgaria and Macedonia, so across Serbia it goes further, 70%, 30% from the Mediterranean zone, and the Mediterranean zone has received much more resources to boost capacity than the Western Balkan route. That is why the European Council decided that somewhere, I think it will be half September, organises an international conference at the highest level on the Western Balkan route, I think it will be held in Budapest, and then some concrete financial additional assistance mechanisms will be used for countries. So this is a challenge for all of Europe, and it is a challenge for both us and our population, and we are ultimately talking about the resistance of the local population. So there are many things, which of course are not easy to solve, but in any case we are now further focused on our European partners, on this European integration path to show responsibility in this regard. I think this country and this government are doing it responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34821	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34822	I would like to thank Minister Jokic and Minister Alexander Vulin. Next question is Deputy Prime Minister Kori Udovicki. Today is a very important day, as it begins today with the final law, the application of the Inspection Control Act begins. It starts when it comes to the area of competition, when it comes to the very important area of market economy development, the unspeakable and unspeakable fight against the gray economy and the application of the Law on Inspective Control will be directed at those entities that have not been controlled for decades, which have had a very negative impact on our market, which have made unfair competition and which have threatened fundamental human and, as a Social Democrats, I must say, and labour rights, and these are unregistered economic operators. Today, and I hope that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government and how they immediately begin their work will begin to control unregistered entities, almost 2.5 decades later. We all know that, according to some analyses, 30 percent of GDP is generated through the gray economy. It is huge money for Serbia, and I believe that you are doing a great job in trying to make a small state, to make an effective state, an effective and productive public sector, and that, of course, the state is doing its job in the best possible way, and its only job is to be an excellent service to citizens and, of course, to businesses and economic operators because it is business and business entities that create additional values that are just filling the budget and which depend on whether Serbia is going to go dynamically through economic development. I would ask you to answer my question – what kind of economic operators will be the first to strike, and how will this harmless and unspeakable fight against the gray economy be?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34823	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34824	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic, for asking. First of all, I would like to remind myself that the inspection law is a roof law that promotes perhaps of all laws as one single measure of the greatest contribution should make a real improvement in the business of the state administration. It is said that through the coordination that he brings between inspections, he will demand that the inspections start to follow the rules that will be recognizable, whose goal is not to punish someone but to improve and coordinate the business of all and citizens, but above all to comply with all the laws. When that's the goal, then there are objective rules on how to achieve it. For example, in the future, no more inspections will be carried out according to how someone finds themselves, but an analysis will be carried out that is the most threatening economic operators or citizens, with the greatest risk of e.g. the loss of tax revenue. They show themselves more often, and those who have already shown themselves to be loyal subjects who have already shown good work can be less likely to walk. Then, the aim of this law is also to reduce the space for corruption, just because it will be announced in advance, which will be clear criteria for who it is going to be. It won't be possible for a five-time tour of a business operator who's been doing something good and who hasn't shown any problems, and we're taking him down for a little bit, and they're going to go around the ones where there's a real risk. In this context, it is very important today when it comes to the application of the provisions that from today on inspection must also be supervised by unregistered entities. I have to say that the fact that it was even possible in Serbia that you had inspections that bypass unregistered entities instead of especially visiting them, that it was our personality, it was from that time when it was not imagined that someone was doing business without registering because it was a communist country, because there was hardly any private free initiatives. In other countries in the world, it's unimaginable. Registration is one thing, and if someone is doing business, if he's already doing some work, it's normal that as soon as the inspection sees that it exists, as soon as the citizens report, he's subject to inspection. The most important thing is in the first step, regardless of what is very important for reducing the gray economy, protecting the security of citizens. The laws exist to protect some interest. In this case, it is most often a matter of food safety and the safety of various other activities that can in any way endanger citizens. Now we won't be able to get through, for example. A food safety inspection bypasses an unregistered slaughterhouse. We now have information that knowing that these provisions will take effect some slaughterhouses unregistered have already taken all the measures necessary to actually formalize their business. It's also important to protect the environment. Peasants in Serbia do many quarrys very often quite wildly, exploitation of wood etc. So again, instead of waiting for someone to report an M.O.P. inspection when he goes to one of them he'll see the other and he's bound to do it. Instructions are already, or are not instructions, but guidelines have been issued in time. The inspections were prepared to intervene. Of course, however, this coordination is very important for reducing the grey economy. The government's already co-ordination body has been established which will now work to exchange all information on subject inspections, to develop plans in a coordinated manner and, of course, will greatly reduce the space for the gray economy to flourish. Of course, the inspection of unregistered subjects is one of the key elements. In this context, I would like to stress, it is said that now inspections will be able to also conduct inspections at private housing facilities when there is a reasonable doubt that, for example, they are. He's doing some work here. I want to point out that it won't be possible without a court order. So, there shouldn't be any fear of citizens here right now, let's say, all of a sudden there's gonna be some witch hunting, breaking into apartments, and chasing people who are on the verge of existence, who might be getting someone's hair done half-friendly. That's not the point. The court order is obtained when it is expected that this activity is significant enough to deserve the cost and attention that such inspection work is done. In that sense, I want to encourage the inspectors and also call on the police, including the judicial authorities, to meet them in the coming days, to be particularly available, because it is possible that they will also encounter resistance from those who have done their unregistered work for decades without having to fear inspection. I should also mention that in another two months they will enter into force and enter into application of the provisions on the basis of which inspections will be required to act and, when they see actions that may be incompatible with the law, in areas that are not within their jurisdiction. They have to report it automatically to the IRS, but also to that inspection they think is responsible for the problem they've noticed. There are now forms and forms of how to proceed and how to make those applications. We believe that all together this will multiply the strength and capacity of people, officials who can identify illegal or unregistered activities and report them to the relevant authorities. In the end, this coordination will significantly reduce what drives us all crazy, and us within the state administration, and also citizens, which is when you report a problem to someone, and he tells you he's not in charge of it. Now, in another two months, all inspections will be competent to act if they find out about any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34825	Here, you have the right to comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34826	Thank you, Your Honor. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her exhaustive response. The comment will be very brief, so I can give the other colleagues a chance to ask. I sincerely hope that, through these measures and through the implementation of this law, you will greatly influence that the black labour market will be completely eradicated. I hope that the law that is in preparation, which is the law on salaries, that this way you will introduce the principle -- the same salary for the same work, so that in our national administration and throughout the country, you can introduce the principle of some opportunities. That doesn't mean egalitarianism, but equal chances for everyone and a game of human knowledge and ability. I sincerely hope you succeed in that intention of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34827	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34828	Thank you, Madam President. Since there's no prime minister in the O.R., I'd like to ask a few ministers who haven't answered any questions yet. So my questions will be addressed to Minister Vanji Udovic and Minister Ivan Tasovac. We are discussing these days the proposal for a law on special conditions for selling certain immovableities in the property of the Republic of Serbia. So the first question is, have you, gentlemen of the Ministers, attended a session of the government held on July 14th, after the government established the proposal and sent it to the assembly procedure on that day? The bill stipulates that the property of the Republic of Serbia is sold without public competition, that the procedure for the launch of the sale, i.e. The purchases of that property can only be initiated by the current tenants, that the estimate of the value by which a certain immovableity will be purchased can only be made by the Tax Administration, and I would like to remind you that ten days ago, the Tax Administration for a single apartment in Lord Jovanovic said that it is worth 9,000 euros, and thanks to the public competition, the value of the immovable property or the value of that immovableity has reached 39,000 euros. To what purpose will the proceeds of selling these properties go? Why is the law stipulating that only the Belgrade City Arts Institute can artificially value previous investments? So, I ask Minister Tasovec and Minister Udovicic who were your motives, why did you vote for such a bill, which you used to follow, is there behind this selling real estate on the Daedin and on Vrakar at a cost and is it possible that this law was written for certain people to come up with expensive immovableities at a low price? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34829	Thank you, MP. I'll give Minister Tasovac a word, but please pay attention that the question must come from the authority of the Minister of Resort. Minister Tasovac will answer you, only to distract you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34830	I thank you for asking. As the president said, it is not from the direct jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture and Information. On the other hand, almost the same question was already asked at the beginning of the session, but you weren't in the O.R., so you probably missed it, or you had a special reason to repeat it once more. Yeah, I was at that session and income goes completely to the budget. The moment the budget is fuller, the areas in my jurisdiction will also have a much better position. That's what I can tell you about your question. Because the entire set of reform laws passed by this government, they are then reflected specifically on culture and on all other areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34831	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34832	Let me just answer that. I was present at the government and voted yes. The law came to an opinion at the Ministry of Youth and Sports as well as any other law. What this law does not provide is that anything will affect the area where I am a minister. As my colleague Minister Tasovac said, it is our desire to earn as much as possible, and then to use those resources in those cases where we consider it most necessary. We know how much sport contributes, we know how much youth is demanding, large and that it is essentially the area of all ministers, but we are trying to do what we can to the powers we have to implement government policy and to contribute to improving the progress of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34833	Thank you. They're the only ones you asked? (Alexander Senic, from the place: Yes. ) If an MP directly asks a particular minister, he answers, but you have failed, he is not a competent minister from culture or sports. He wants to answer your questions, Minister Dusan Vujovic. (Alexander Senic, from the site: No need. Don't you want to? (Alexander Senic, from the place: No. ) He does not want an MP to answer his question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34834	So you can't tell me that it's not the minister's jurisdiction to vote or not to vote for the law. I asked very clearly why they voted in favour of the law, and as members of the government voted in favour of every bill. I had a special reason to repeat this question because the law represents a robbery of property owned by the Republic of Serbia. My still suggestion is, since you are still as a government able to withdraw that bill, precisely for the reason stated by Mr. Udovicic. So he said we wanted to make as much money as possible. Mr. Minister, in order for you to have enough resources to develop sport, we had a great two months and in order to be even better next months, and to have more resources for culture, it is necessary to enable a transparent process of buying, public competition, to set the market a price for certain immovableities, not to sell real estate at some estimated cost in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. So I'm not happy with the answers. My questions were -- why is the law stipulating that only the Belgrade City Arts Institute could artificially build the value of previous investments? What are your motives and why did you vote for such a bill? What criteria did you follow? Is there a sale behind this of expensive property on the Vracar, on the grandfather at a great price? So, questions addressed directly to Minister Tasovac and Minister Udovicic, to which I refer the following questions. Why did you vote in favour of the bill on how to determine the maximum number of public sector employees, when it provides for the dismissal of 9,000 people, when institutions of national importance whose founders are not taken into account? If this law applies, it will be extinguished, for example. Resava Cave in Despotovac, Translation Centre in Svilinc. Also, the law implies statistical data, so according to this data, the Svilajnac e.g. There are 23,000 inhabitants, and in fact there are 31,000.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34835	Thank you, MP. Three minutes. I am obliged, according to the Rules of Procedure, to Article 204 of Article 6 in which it writes - the President of the National Assembly will warn the MP, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority, and the competent authority is, in further terms, a resolute minister. So I'm not going into your motives why, because I know you didn't accidentally ask ministers who couldn't answer you, and I can't let you keep asking questions, with the intention of not getting an answer. As it says, a question is being asked to the competent minister or government, and I want Serbian citizens to get an answer, I will let competent Minister Dusan Vujovic answer and correct what you wanted to do with some particular intention. Please, Minister Vujovicu, respond to the MP in order for Serbian citizens to receive an adequate response.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34836	Thank you very much. I was in charge of defending these laws. The general debate was Monday, the amendment debate was on Wednesday, a vote is expected, I hope, on Friday or Saturday. The law had many amendments, objections, questions, etc. We have answered everything in the debate, and now that the same questions are repeated, once again, because of our citizens, I will repeat the answers. So, the first claim, by the so-called. The reference price of an example where the Tax Administration in one case set an initial price of 9,000 euros for a ten-square-metre area in the Master of Jovanovic Street, a price of ten square metres, which is in line with the price currently prevailing on the market. Everyone's right. We'll try, like I said, that the IRS always evaluates it. This is obviously a very special and active example of raising the square metre in bid to 5,000 euros in Belgrade, in the centre of the city, even if it is in the most important place. It would be very good if we could sell everything at that price. I agree with you. However, as I have answered several times in the debate over this law, the bidding, as a method, in a situation where the immovableity in question is not free from people and things, and these are apartments, garages, business premises and similar facilities that are located under a long-term contract of use, this is much more like legal-economic and in any other way the situation of privatization of apartments that were owned or owned by the state. Let me remind you, these are apartments, hundreds of thousands of apartments that were privatized during the 1990s, which were social property or state-owned apartments, such as apartments from the Military Fund. It was a procedure in which auctions were not conducted, and prices were set. They are the same principles, and you can estimate how realistic it is, they were applied to two laws passed by this Assembly in 1999 and 2000, where a privatisation of a similar apartment fund was made. We propose this law because the state wants to come out of the property of apartments and individual objects that do not serve the function of the state. These are the apartments that were inherited. This excludes apartments used by diplomatic and consular representations and will continue to serve and issue diplomatic and consular representations. The sublets and all other forms are excluded from this. Only the original contractors of long-term contracts and lease contracts will be in a position to offer to buy these apartments. The price proposed in the law, I offered in principle the possibility to do so in another way, we did not get any valid proposal, as all proposals proposed unacceptable technical and legally unacceptable solutions. The only thing I can guarantee is that the Tax Administration in its work will use everything, including the Imputs of Experts, where you can personally take part, and all other experts in the Republic of Serbia, anyone who slows down any of these processes will be able to use, among other things, to find an expert. As you know, the court uses expert opinions, but takes them as one of the possible information in the value assessment process. Why would an individual expert be a more objective source of market value of something that cannot be objectively valued on the market, because it is not free to sell, than an institution that has a database on all real estate in the Republic of Serbia, since it pays real estate taxes on this basis? My goal, my interest, as finance minister, is to achieve the highest price, in line with what the market gives at the given moment. Secondly, as far as income is concerned, I must say that the use of the term "stealing" is completely inappropriate to this Assembly and you have not supported it. Robbery means someone's taking something. Nobody takes anything here. The revenue from these sales, privatisation, will be the general revenue of the budget that will be subject to the same spending limits that every dinar in the budget is subject to. Therefore, you will be able, as a parliament, and we as the Ministry of Finance, as a vault, as a government, to control and answer for the purpose of spending all funds. These funds are the general revenue of the budget. Therefore, they will be able to be used for everything. We have defined that we will spend them only on strategic capital expenditures. Since this is a one-time income, it wouldn't be correct to spend on anything that's not a one-time expense. To complete here, so Mr. Tasovac knows very well and we work together to finance the opening of the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art. We're missing one-time funds for that. This will be an ideal opportunity to provide those missing funds in this way. Everyone knows very well that in other places there are equally unclosed funding structures and we will be able to use these funds, but I repeat, since this is not foreseen in the budget, it will only be possible to predict the budget rebalance. This parliament will have full insight into both the proposal and spending and the implementation of the budget. So, I think it's unacceptable that you insinuate that the right of the state to decide that it doesn't want to have any property, and we're going to privatize not only this, but a complete housing fund that doesn't function as what the state wants to do, we're going to privatise where the apartments are, we're going to sell them at auction, so we're going to compare the results. In addition, the results of this law will be available to Parliament and the public and, therefore, you will be able to have full insight. It is very important that no one will be able to alienate any single dinar generated by these privatisations, and they will be the general revenue of the budget that is subject to the same financial control as all other budget revenues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34837	Thank you. Commentary, Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34838	I thought it was the minister's jurisdiction to vote for a certain law in the government, but if the president says it's not their jurisdiction, here I respect it. Mr. Vujović, I would trust you all what you just said if you had adopted an amendment to publish on the website of the Property Directorate a list of customers who bought these immovableities and contracts at which prices were purchased. So, if you'd let that happen, I would have believed you all. So, what kind of transparency are we talking about? What insight are we talking about? So you just didn't convince me that you were honest with your intentions and that's all I can tell you. You are referring to the immovableity of the streets of Lord John. Because of the public, because of people who are not from Belgrade to know that it is the centre of Belgrade. The tax administration, you said, has estimated the immovableity of ten square meters at 9,000 euros. Everyone knows it's 900 euros per square. Is that a real price for downtown Belgrade? And we asked for everything to be sold in a public competition and thus to ensure income for sport and for culture and for the museum, and for this natural center in Svilinc that you will close with such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34839	The word is Borisav Kovacevic. No, no more comments on the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, but I have to respect the Rules of Procedure, so Dusan Kovacevic and I are done with MP Senic by next month.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34840	Thank you, President of the Assembly. My question would be addressed to the Minister of Agriculture, Mrs. Snezani Boskovic Bogosavljevic. I mean, somewhere in 2013 here in the Assembly we were, in a debate, concerned about agriculture, then Minister Knezevic said, that is, he announced the preparation of the strategy on agriculture. I know that it is not easy to create it because it requires access to an expert, analytical, broad number of problems, issues that are not only about agriculture, etc., and therefore making such a strategy takes a long time. But I think it's been a long time, that it gives me the right to ask the current minister a question, did it continue to prepare that strategy or did it give up? The question that goes with it and if the Prime Minister were here it might be more logical to ask him directly, but anyway. Is the perception of the Agriculture Government as one of the primary sectors of development? Of course, that depends on what the strategy will be. That, please, is the Minister's first question that I've focused on, to give an answer. Another thing about the same question, if we gave up our strategy in agriculture, I'd like to hear the reasons why? If it hasn't given up, do we, or do we have a government, ministry, have a plan until when should we offer a strategy for adoption? So much for this first call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34841	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34842	Dear Mr Kovacevic, I must say and express my satisfaction that you have asked me this question. Agriculture and Rural Development Strategy 2014/2024 The year was adopted last year. This is a strategy that you said was announced by Minister Knezevic, which is true. A very large number of our scientific workers participate in this strategy. Experts from EU countries participated, and the government adopted a strategy. It is up to us now to implement the Strategy. On the basis of the adopted Strategy, as early as August last year, we have also produced new documents in the past period. One of these documents is the IPARD programme, which is a programme for the use, i.e. the withdrawal of funds from EU pre-accession funds by our farmers. This programme, which was developed on the basis of the adopted strategy by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by the European Commission on 20 January, and we have had and have now intensive preparations to establish administrative capacities, i.e. the operational structure to start using these funds as early as next year. On the basis of the adopted 2014 Strategy, we have prepared two other very important programmes. The National Rural Development Programme and the National Agricultural Programme. Otherwise, these are two concrete programs that will contain and contain complementary measures with the IPARD program that now all together should be united in favour of our farmers. What does that mean? This means practically that farmers who are to be identified and who benefit from the IPARD programme will no longer be beneficiaries of the funding from the national programme or national budget. This means a lot to us, because one part of the beneficiaries of the agricultural resources will be transferred to European funds, it will be more funds for our domestic users, and in this way we will try to provide additional funds for the development of agriculture. In addition to these two programs that I have now mentioned in the past period, and in the coming period we will work intensively with local self-governments, because they are practically important to us in the implementation of the objectives set out by the national programmes, drawn by the IPARD programme. All in all, therefore, the Strategy was adopted and not only the Strategy but also the concrete other documents resulting from the adopted Strategy. We expect the result very quickly, and our goal is as I said there should be more funding and more support for the development of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34843	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34844	I am very grateful for this response, and I think it will mean very much to those people, i.e. we know how many of our population actually base their existence on agriculture. I would like an additional question that would be very interesting to me, that is, for those who listen from citizens, which is the following: whether the strategy provides for restructuring of primary agricultural production. I mean, for the sake of predominant production in warfare so far, let's say, cereals, did we foresee greater incentives for the development of other branches of agriculture such as very interesting vegetables, where we have a situation of untapped natural resources, so that in that branch we could provide all year-round production, and not just one harvest when it comes to cereals, and we have these conditions, for example, I quote an example of the Machvan region that has all the conditions natural to do so. It has quality land and its configuration, lying on hot water for decades, proven with existing wells, surrounded by the most watery two rivers of domestic, Drin and Sava. What is planned here in such situations, is that enough to be taken care of, to once stop the structure in primary production and in agriculture, we have the maltenes that we had half a century ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34845	I thank you for this additional question and for the opportunity to say my thoughts on the subject you've asked. Practically, the strategy means that Serbia has defined strategically helping agriculture as one of the most important activities, a work that provides a surplus in external trade over many years. Questions, you say nothing has changed in the last 50 years. A lot has changed. Unfortunately, it's changed in terms of negative. As you know, and we've talked about it for a long time, and we often talk about how much livestock farming has been reduced, how much the Fund of domestic animals has been reduced, how much the level or share of livestock farming in the total agricultural production has been reduced. Today we are at a level of just slightly more than 30% of the total value of agriculture, that is practically a share of livestock farming. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture is to support each region, to support all areas, to help maximum, and in particular to point out that our aim is to support the development of livestock, because this is indeed a historic minimum, and what is currently domestic animal cultivation products, products with higher value. We expect, with the support of the development of livestock, to encourage greater exports of these products, to encourage economic development and farmers themselves, as well as countries in general. Of course, I was just saying, and I still have to point out in the structure of agricultural holdings in Serbia and all those agricultural subjects are mostly represented natural persons, private possessions, so they're self-determined when it comes to what they're going to sow, how much they're going to sow and whether they're going to deal with animal farming. So we want every region, every area, every production as much as possible to support, and it's our priority to support livestock production because this is a production that can't be revitalised so quickly, it can't be restored so quickly. We know when the cow fund is reduced, how many years it takes to get back to that same level, four or five years, minimum to get to the same level, and only then to secure some upward trend. So the strategy created a good starting base. The National Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development, too. We have also provided a programme that means additional funding from EU funds. We will continue to provide maximum support to farmers when it comes to expert advice when it comes to consultation. We make every effort to respect our obligations to farmers when it comes to subsidies. We also stimulate investments in agriculture. We give funds that mean vomiting, for example, investment in primary production, in processing facilities, in freezers, etc. So, all that we do in the interest of agriculture, and we are always ready to hear concrete suggestions from both the field and the conversation with farmers. I always say that I love talking to everyone the most, because these suggestions that are being heard from them are actually life proposals, life problems, and we are maximumly committed to solving problems. I hope that the picture of agriculture will be very quickly better and that our farmers will achieve better yields and that we will have better results. I already said that this year, in the first six months, we have achieved significantly better results than last year's first six months, and I hope that this will continue until the end of this year. In doing so, I also have to say that what our agriculturals know and we all know has never been easy to deal with. Our factory is an open-air factory. We depend on both the droughts and the floods and the city, and I just came to this session from a meeting with farmers, and it's about the raspberries, our raspberries from Ivanjica, and they say, yes, we had a town, but we had a good offer, but unfortunately, the drought has now cut us off to achieve better results, much better than last year. When I asked them why they didn't water, why they didn't irrigate, and they say what I know and what the experts who deal with agricultural matters know, and we watered, watered, but it doesn't help, at such extremely high temperatures and watering doesn't help. I just want to say how sensitive this sector is, as much as it depends on very many factors, but this is the most sustainable sector and I am therefore convinced that in the coming period, we, our farmers, our Ministry and Government will continue to record better and better results in food production, to ensure the nutrition and safety of domestic citizens, but also the very necessary goods for export to foreign markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34846	Thank you, Minister. Borisav Kovacevic, commentary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34847	It's nice to hear such an optimistic idea of the whole situation in such a convincing way and I really believe you and I hope it will happen, which I think is very important, and now we don't have time to discuss, very important and I think you've thrown an accent on it, and that's that the sooner we work out production specifications projects on certain regions, depending on the climate and all other natural conditions. That's one thing. The other thing, I strongly recommend you not to do something she did, you know that was before you the Minister of Agriculture, I watched this rally and one deal with the peasants, when they said they produced a lot, and they needed help, that they couldn't place, and her answer was – for God's sake, if you're able to produce, you're also able to sell. I am commenting on it now – what will happen to producers in agriculture and the Ministry, if it will not help them in the placement, especially when it comes to foreign markets, so please, you probably predicted it, it would be very important that we have concrete plans here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34848	Please keep your voice down, for the messengers cry when they speak. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34849	Dear representatives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, foreign ministers and deputy prime minister, Mr Dacic, the OSCE presidency, when it comes to it, cannot help but look back at very good comments from the international public, when it comes to the OSCE presidency by Serbia. With that in mind, I'll be completely honest and open when it comes to this matter. I must say, it is pleasant to be from Serbia when you listen to praises on your own account and on this occasion, even though I am an opposition to your government, I would like to congratulate you personally on your well done work. But I would also like to point out to you as deputy prime minister when it comes to one very important issue, as regards the interests of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. I hope you're consulting and communicating on a daily basis, and I'm sorry that the Prime Minister himself isn't in the Assembly today, because this is a topic that's shaken up in the last few weeks by the entire local public. At the end of last year, we passed the Law on Planning and Construction. To our great surprise, the land conversion was then left behind from the bill. We got it, first of all, for a few weeks, and the title of that bill was a conversion with a fee. When we received this proposal in Articles 8 and 18, we saw that the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina budget and local self-government, as well as the Restitution Fund will not receive an estimated billion 429 million, as it says in the bill itself, because Article 8 provides conversion without compensation for built land, and in Article 18, on unbuilt land, a long-term lease is allowed for 99 years. Several times, we also told the interior minister in this assembly that there are indications for unremembered corruption in Serbia, that it is a set of several laws...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34850	Time. Now let someone answer you. You have to tell which minister you're asking the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34851	And Deputy Prime Minister and Mrs. Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34852	Let me give you an answer for the weather. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34853	I'd be happy to answer, although you haven't asked the question. The law on conversion is a law that is the correction of the law that you made a few years ago and that has really completely stopped the construction industry, especially all those customers after privatisation and bankruptcy. You know, that was the reason why we had to fix the laws, and that's why all those who, especially those who deal with production, couldn't practically continue to build on their land, because they only had the right to use. Correction of your laws and, therefore, on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decisions, was made and was made, that is, prepared, the Law on Conversion, which is called the Law on Conversion, that is, the Law on Conversion of the right of use to property or the right of lease. The law has been in public debate for many months, it has received all the positive opinions of all institutions, not only of the European Commission, when we talk about it, but also of all the councils of foreign investors, chambers, our investors, our local public, adopted at the government and my satisfaction was also adopted in the Serbian Parliament. This law should enable, of course, one hand and revenue to the budget. Half will go to Serbia's budget, of course, the other half of the Agency for Restitution, but should certainly enable it to start building in Serbia, to either pay land compensation, so when it enters property, or to rent. One example is often mentioned among other examples, and this is Luka Belgrade, so to say once again, they will pay, of course, the market value. First, the port area will be determined, this government will do so, and then the market value of the fee will be paid in order to even come into possession over the building land. So, once again, this law just needs to help build up more besides the Law on Planning and Construction in Serbia. Your insinuations that no revenue will be realised are equal to the insinuations you had when we adopted the Law on Planning and Construction when you also said that construction permits will never be granted in less than a month, and God forbid that law and how it lives and does not have local self-government that does not apply the Law on Planning and Construction. This also applies to this Law on the Conversion of the right of use to property rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34854	Complementary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34855	Only in the Catitina municipality is it possible for four billion euros to be transferred to the hands of the PKK, Zlatibor. Who knows how many in other municipalities across Serbia are allowed individuals to acquire enormous wealth? Some may not, as Mr. Stamatovic, talk about it because they are SNS, but Mr. Milan Stamatovic, as the president of the municipality, who is fighting with the lioness...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34856	Question. Please ask a question. This isn't an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34857	I have to ask, just let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34858	You're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34859	... who has asked the question in front of the whole public of Serbia and I repeat today – why is it allowed before it is adopted, or the Law on the conversion of compensation, and in Articles 8 and 18, it bypasses it? Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic has hurried to hand over Serbian property to a private person. We think it's an unremembered corruption in the history of this country. We believe that Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, would have to be informed of this case. For this reason, I have asked the Deputy Prime Minister to inform him. We spoke on this subject several times. It is the creation of a new financial elite in Serbia, new tycoons that are members of certain political options. I believe that in this way only in the Municipality of Chatin is handed over to someone, not just 2,213 hectares, but is it possible in this way for one person to become the owner of the entire Zlatibor? Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Mr. Stamatovic is not alone in this fight. Although we are not party colleagues, we stand firm behind his views and support him in this struggle to preserve Serbia's and Serbia's citizens' interest, not only Chatine.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34860	MP, define the question, it's 19.00 hours, and we have a duty to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34861	I understand this subject is no use to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34862	I don't care, but define the question, because I have to direct you to the Rules of Procedure. What do I do? It's not a very nice role, but read...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34863	Is this how a certain number of tycoons in Serbia are allowed to live better than all other citizens of Serbia? Yeah. Do you think, as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia or possibly you as Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Dacic, that this matter may pass the Constitutional Court? No, I don't. We have submitted an initiative to the constitutionality of this law and we are sure that the Constitutional Court will bring this law down and Ms. Mihajlovic's intention to hand over the property of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34864	Thank you, MP. You're very incorrect, because in accordance with Article 204 it's nothing. You gave a speech for three minutes but, although it's 19.00 hours, because of how you asked the question, you didn't, I'm giving Minister Zorana Mihajlović to answer and we'll finish the session, although we'll extend about five minutes. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34865	When you talk about tycoons and corruption, I assume you're talking about the Democratic Party, that you're not talking about the Serbian Progressive Foreigner and this government, because these corruptions and all these privatisations were, gentlemen, when you were in power and held by the government. In particular, as regards the Law on Conversion, a market price is paid. As for the particular case of Chajetina, i.e. the great struggle for the public interest of the President of the Tchaitin municipality, I am pleased to say, I am glad that it is fighting for the public interest, but right away you know that these items, i.e. five objects and five solutions are still not the final solutions. I don't know why you've concluded that it's worth four billion euros, and I'd be so happy if that land was worth four billion euros, that's really great for all of us. I also want to tell you that the cases are pending. You can't say, your question – will a certain number of tacos live better this way, if you mean your so-called. tycoon, I can't tell you that answer, but the tycoon in this government and the tycoon produced by this government doesn't. We try to respect the law and respect it and really protect the constitutional order of this country and the public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-07-30-0.u34866	Thank you. Since it is now 19 hours and three minutes, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary issues and I thank everyone for their participation. I apologize for extending over 19.00 hours of time for Serbian citizens to get an answer to the question they asked. People's MPs, we'll be working on it tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. Good afternoon. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 16th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 87 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the MPs Branko Đurović, Vesna Besarović, Branka Bosnjak, Đorđe Cabarkapa, Branko Ružić, Sinisa Maksimović, Milena Ćorilić and Dragan Jovanovic are today prevented. We move on to a search in detail of the draft law on textbooks. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that I have called on today's session to be attended by the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr Srdjan Verbic and his ministry associates, State Secretary and Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, on the draft law. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm opening my rules of procedure to review the draft law in particular. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
