ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21534	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Udovici and honored guests, I suppose, from several ministries and from the National Bank of Serbia, it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, once again to intervene for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I believe that the members of 105 to 118 and 283 are injured because the MP, one of us 250 here, Mr Zoran Zivkovic, is not allowed in this morning, gentlemen, to enter a large hall, to take part in the debate on amendments to these seven draft laws. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, there are three things I want to add here as one sort of argument for the proposal that Mr. Zivkovic should enter the hall and participate in the debate. In one way, I think that one kind of example should be a good practice of the European Parliament, in which the Rules of Procedure, in Article 167, states that it is sufficient for one MP to lodge an internal appeal to Parliament and that the appeal, by filing the complaint, automatically proceeds to suspend the application of sanctions. The second thing, respected gentlemen and Madam President of the National Assembly, Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted 186 amendments to these draft laws. It will be very difficult for me to explain all 186 and I really need Mr. Zivkovic's support. The third thing, I believe, since Minister Vujovic, when we discussed here in principle, was warned, was out of the room, that he was allowed to return to the O.R., I think, respected gentlemen, that the same treatment should be given to the MP and that he should be assured to return to the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21535	Thank you. There is no injured Rules of Procedure according to any of the articles you have listed. Minister Vujovic did not receive a warning, I must point out that for the sake of the public and do not speak falsely when this has not happened. Please, take the stenograms, read them carefully, we have enough time over the weekend to study the stenograms, so I know what I'm saying. I read them so I can answer the MPs who don't tell the truth. Do you want to vote, since I have nothing new to add to all the answers – the breach of the Rules of Procedure, on the same basis as you? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: No. Thank you. The word is Mirko Krlić. On what grounds? By hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21536	Madam Chairman, I think it is high time to stop this performance that is first and foremost violating Article 107, insults the Parliament's dignity and deceives both the MPs and the Serbian public. In fact, the MP has repeatedly advertised that Zoran Zivkovic was prevented from entering the National Assembly Hall. It is a public impression that the cordon police are standing outside the hall and physically preventing Zivkovic from passing through the door, which is primarily not true because MP Zivkovic hasn't been in the Assembly for days. To prevent him from entering the O.R., he should first come to the National Assembly, and this can be determined from the list we sign at the entrance of this building. Public deception has become the manner of this political party. I'll just remind you that for eight months, we've had an opportunity to listen to a false response to the title, Professor. We heard about the government in the resignation for four months, until you kindly asked him to break up with that manner. This kind of deception is the same as the kopi-paiste amendments, which are why today we will spend the time of the MPs and, of course, the money of the citizens of Serbia. I understand that the MP lacks his spiritual, ideological and political leader and that he feels very individually in the Assembly without him, but even if he is so benign and few political options, this kind of deception and this amount of constant pressure on the same thing, there is much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21537	Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21538	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 and Article 113. Rules of Procedure. I must say immediately that I agree with my colleague Pavicevic that the sentence of article 113 is a dragon, that it is anti-European, that it is anti-democratic. I don't agree with that punishment. But it is important to know that the provision of Rule 113 and the entire Rules of Procedure brought more than five years ago the former government, the former regime, on whose list it was elected in the last elections of Mr Pavicevic. I can't believe that one professor at the Faculty of Political Sciences, whose academic integrity should not be doubted, was able to stand on a list that brought this kind of anti-civilization, anti-democracy, anti-European measure. For days, we have been listening to advertising on the Rules of Procedure that did not bring this assembly meeting, but has brought the assembly's convocation, the setup, the political party on whose list is elected and the one who regularly advertises this Rules of Procedure. I must remind Mr Pavicevic, although I do not agree with this non-democracy provision in Article 113, that the best laws, the best regulations, are the best acts of those who are respected. Now I don't know if Col. Pavicevic invites us not to respect the Rules of Procedure who brought his party colleagues or coalition allies in the last elections, in which he, so academically, congratulatedly, stepped on the list that she brought, here again, to underline, the anti-European, anti-democratic Rules of Procedure, which my previous counterpart Pavicevic agrees with. So, I'd like to make a statement once whether he chooses society or society chooses him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21539	Thank you. Do you want us to vote after the injuries of the Rules of Procedure are repeated? (Marian Risticevic, from the city: No. ) On Article 1, as I said, I read the applicants of the proposal, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic is the applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21540	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Mrs Udovici and the Honored Guests from different ministries I suppose also from the National Bank of Serbia, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 1. The draft law supplementing the Ministry Act, and since this is the first draft law in a united debate that we had on seven draft laws, and that the governor of the NBS here argued that these solutions containing all the bill's proposals are one package, I will try to explain to our first amendment to look back at these solutions to try to convince the MPs that we should reject these drafts of the law, or delay the adoption of certain provisions proposed for the moment when the opportunity is created. Dear President, I will use the time by amendment I have to explain this amendment. First of all, I want the MPs, first of all here, to inform me that we have submitted, and that is true, 186 amendments including the one that reads - are deleted. But I must inform the MPs here that two of the 186 amendments are being deleted, accepted, respected gentlemen. Please, it just means that the amendment -- it is deleted, and it can make sense, that something bad can be fixed with that content, and as soon as the government adopted it, it means that it was unsettling that even in two places, even in the government's approach, it is correcting something to the amendments, it is deleted. Now I'm going to focus specifically on this Article 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Ministry Act. Here, in this Article 1 is said, in Article 3, paragraph 1 of the Ministry Act – collateral for property and persons, words are added – participation in the management of banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions, whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, as well as the organisation and implementation of the process of selling shares in the same. We felt, gentlemen, that it was not appropriate to change in less than a year the law that we have been enrolling here as a grounding law for this government. At the end of April, and Mrs. Udovici was present here, we passed the Ministry Act. National MP Zoran Zivkovic and I then suggested that members of the law change. We suggested, I mean, a much better structure that, if we had adopted then, probably wouldn't be the reason for these additions right now. Our proposal was that, instead of the government with 16 ministries, we have a government that makes up nine ministries and a Prime Minister. It has been rejected here, and now we have a proposal to supplement the Ministry Act which, in our court, represents one picture of the nobility of a government. Imagine, gentlemen, when in less than a year we're changing the grounding law, it's a sign of a kind of climate, disorientation, and I mean, instability. That is why I think we should think carefully about all the proposals for additions and amendments sent by this government. I even think, gentlemen, that this proposal that has been sent here means a reference to a kind of paradox that we're in. We have a ruling majority here. We have a party that has really won citizens' support in the elections, and imagine that picture of a government that has such a majority, there are 136 MPs, and for less than a year it has to change, here in two members right here, justifying its law, and that's the Ministry Act. If we add that, gentlemen, and that information, that in less than a year, even some people have changed in some places in that government, for example. Here is Mr Vujovic, who explained to us three days ago that we really needed this addition of Article 1, and that man, Mr Vujovic, was, when the government was formed here, taking a second place in the government. I have nothing left to do but to suggest, and to the MPs, and to the presidents of the National Assembly in particular, and also to the guests of the Serbian Government, from the National Bank of Serbia, that I suggest that we imagine a little bit about this picture that rests on two things that are really like this for me for an alarm. One thing is, I'm changing the grounding law, and by comparison, some people change in places in that government. I would expect, gentlemen, that a political formation that provides such support in the elections actually provides a kind of stability for its actions. Stability in terms of the structure of the government, the work of ministers who are in the positions that we have provided for by the Ministry Act, but stability in the humane sense, and that we do not have any kind of change, as regards the structure of the ministries, that we do not have a kind of change in terms of human resources solutions. And beware, gentlemen, that's not enough, but we are now being announced a new amendment that we may be able to access the government's new reconstruction here for the anniversary of the government, perhaps in two months or three. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I ask you once more to consider what kind of government we are dealing with in terms of its action and sending a proposal to this National Assembly. It is my judgment that the motion to amend Article 1 in another context can make sense, but in what context, gentlemen. In a context that means that the government comes here, that someone on behalf of that government comes here and says, "We made a mistake eight months ago, or nine months ago." We didn't plan well, we didn't predict well, gentlemen. Respect that mistake, so now that you respect that mistake, let's do it by correcting the error. Instead, the government comes here without admitting that it was wrong and with one certainty that this is the best way. No, that's why I suggest that we consider accepting this amendment of ours, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21541	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21542	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment, amendment to Article 1, be rejected. Proposal for a law supplementing the Ministry Act. Madam Chairman, here we are again in one unkindness, I would say the situation that we have come to thanks to complete irresponsibility and I would say the absence of the elemental jurisdiction of some MPs. Because how else do we comment on the fact that we have so many amendments to the exact same amendments that are "expunged", which do not have much to do with the essence of these draft laws, do not have much to do with the desire for these laws to be corrected in this way. If you ask me, they have nothing to do with sound logic or common sense. Madam Chairman in front of me is a press report from Blic, which bears the title – Pavicevic, and under the allegations of Nova Party submitted 186 amendments with the text "expect". The text then says that every time the government tries to degrade the parliament with a request to consider the proposed laws, only a few hours after it has referred them to the procedure, it will react to a large number of amendments with the text "expect". And he's not ashamed to make such statements. He doesn't feel any shame. I must remind myself, then, of the people – what a smart man is ashamed of, Mr Pavicevic is proud. I hope we reject these amendments and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21543	I think you're the only one who spoke to me rhetorically and you're not expecting an answer. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21544	Thank you, Madam President. So I join the invitation to reject this amendment, or amendment, because we have them in the same text on both sides. I also congratulate my distinguished colleagues on the adoption of some amendments by the legislators, but I remind you that this amendment is not the case, i.e. this amendment is not accepted. I remind you that what we were able to hear earlier in the context of oral reasoning is not really a real motive for submitting amendments, given that in the written explanation we have received a reason which is not in the sense of proposing something new and better in terms of organisation through the Ministry Act, but it is indicated that the amendment promoter did not have time to read the text of the proposed law. Just because we're reminded, this is what this terrible material looks like that we haven't had time to master. A total of two members in two sentences. I would be a little more concerned with the reasons listed by some other amendments in the same text, which are also proposed to delete this Article 1 and where it is said as a reason that the existing powers that I consider to be the amendment promoter are actually quite appropriate and that there is no need for the powers of the ministry to be changed. About that, I call for a written explanation from the government. I remind you of the arguments contained in the accompanying material together with the bill. This solution is proposed precisely because there will be a reorganisation of certain competences. What exactly is thought is very clear from the content of Article 1. So exactly what is now proposed as the new jurisdiction of the ministry was indeed in the, still current Act on Agency and Deposit. In Article 3, from word to word, there is thus a defined authority relating to the management of banks where the shareholder of the Republic is in trade in shares. It is now out of law among other laws we are discussing last Friday and today. The one currently referring to the Agency no longer contains such a provision. Such authorisation is no longer provided for by the Agency. On the other hand, it is proposed to move to the Department's section. In view of the fact that even the amendment's proposings did not provide for such a type of business to be maintained in that second law as the responsibility of the agencies, so that we would not come into a situation where suddenly no one is dealing with it anymore, I think it is very reasonable to accept that it goes under the supervision of the ministry, under its ageing in the manner that the legislator suggested. Taking into account both, I see no other correct solution, the other solution to be right is to add this amendment, such a refusal, and to accept the proposed solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21545	The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21546	Thank you. The addition of the Ministry Act in the short introduction defines what it is that the Ministry of Finance is allowed, what it is not to do, which it must not deal with, which it must not, which is its jurisdiction, and what it is not, for that Ministry as well as for everyone in the Ministry Act which the Government normally submits before its own election or alters in its own way whether it is justified or not. There's my first question for a representative of the government. Namely, a change is required which restores the practical competence of a time before the partial reform of public finances – to add the words "participation in the management of banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, as well as the organisation and implementation of the process of selling actions in the same". So, what happened from the Ministry Act to this moment, to prove the necessity of such a supplement? That's the first question. The second question is, how many parts of which is the return of this jurisdiction under executive authority directly, not through the Agency, in accordance with what we already have as a result, and this good assessment of Chapter 32? The third question is, is this change one time since, under the circumstances, when unsettled, nothing was caused during the previous months by this change, then anyone who actually deals with the Finance Ministry Act can only suspect that this should serve something, once or twice? For what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21547	Thank you. The word is Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21548	This change was absolutely not caused by anything. This change was caused, first of all, by the collapse of several banks in the previous period which showed that the previous system allowed them to be mismanaged and that the Deposit Insurance Agency was completely emptied. The experiences created in the previous period have ordered the creation of new laws, both on banks, on the National Bank, on the Deposit Insurance Agency, and within that period, and it has been found that it is better to eliminate the potential of conflicts of interest which has obviously made the Deposit Insurance Agency not work until the end of its work in the previous period and to move those competences from the Agency, i.e. to a place which, in my opinion, has been logical since the beginning, which is the owner. The owner of capital in these institutions needs his share of capital in them and to manage them. It was done together and based on close consultations with international institutions. It's part of exactly the program that was agreed with the International Monetary Fund. There is no doubt that this is an answer to the need that has proved very clear and that it is in line with two new fundamentals, so to speak, and not just two but three brand-new laws that redecorate, redecorate that system. So this is one, let me say, complementary measure in relation to one purification, complementing the control of the financial system that has proved necessary and which has been achieved in close cooperation with the largest international experts and agreed under the IMF programme, so I'm not clear that you're putting this thing under question at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21549	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21550	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS is against the amendment tabled by counterpart Pavicevic and counterpart Zivkovic. There are many reasons in the past, in the near past, and very painful reasons why we are against the adoption of such an amendment. I would like to thank my colleague Orlic, who has read the bill clearly, but also the amendment proposal. I'll do it again, for the sake of the public, for the sake of those people who may not have listened carefully and carefully read this amendment. This amendment would delete the category provided for in Article 1. The draft law supplementing the Ministry Act, which provides that the state participates in the management of banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions, whose shareholder is the Republic of Serbia, as well as the organisation and implementation of the process of selling shares in the same. Is it normal for the state of Serbia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia as a shareholder in banks, has capital in banks, in insurance companies, and cannot participate in the management of these banks, or in the process of selling the capital of these banks? Is that why the amendment promoter wants to bring us back to the dark past of the Universal Bank? To the darker past of Agro Bank? To the dreary past of Vojvodina Development Bank? Does he want to leave the possibility where they're set, now I see that it's no longer modern to say "tacuni", it's pesorative, now it's modern to say "capital owners", under the recommendation, political recommendations from the top of the former regime, where they entered these three banks and the robbery instead of earlier, at least as it was with guns and socks on their heads, leaving with an act of purse, welcomed to coffee, welcomed to a glass of hot drinks, probably, guaranteed to rot, guaranteed to the sherpas, guaranteed to know each other perhaps Bojan Pajtic, and received millions of loans that were not returned, because nothing could not be returned, brought back by the state through the Deposit Insurance Agency? Now imagine in the whole of such a very elaborate, as young people would say "shami", you do not allow, such an amendment would not allow State interference and control of such procedures if it never happened again. Do we have enough opportunities and are we ready enough to give up on every half year, year, as was the case for the capitalisation of Vojvodina Development Bank, where we on several occasions gave from the AP Vojvodina budget or from the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget, to capitalize the Vojvodina Development Bank in order to place funds to enterprises such as “NS Don”, a newly-sed Don, a new Sad boss, but not Bojan Pajtic, he is the Duke's boss, thinks at least that he is the Duke's boss, owned by former director of “Metals Bank” Anani Pavićic or EMPECO, owned by a controversial businessman or “Polystroy”, from Odzak, owned by a protected witness by Milet Jerkovic, etc.? All except political support, with Bojan Pajtic's card and support, Bojan Pajtic entered such banks. This is how the state wants to put an end to it. This is how the state wants full control of banks and insurance companies where it has fixed assets and has part of ownership. We want credits to be obtained in a way not because of phone numbers or familiarity with someone, but in a way prescribed by law, and it's the same for all citizens and it's the same for all businessmen, because we don't have the opportunity to do a little bit, a little bit, so we can borrow to cover the minuses in such banks. Believe me, it doesn't mean anything to me that someone in those banks who's been working on a credit rating will answer, which they'll spend on the defendant's bench tomorrow, I believe, both in custody and in prison. What about these funds that have disappeared? What are we going to do with people who have been through various offshore companies, over various lirjets, through various yachts, through various boasts, forever taken from our country? Who's gonna get all that back? Who will return everything to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? Whose burden in the past have we been in charge of covering such placements? Now, with an amendment like this, colleagues want us to go back to the way things were. They want us to go back that way and so on in the banking system, at least in banks where the state is a shareholder, to act that way, and again some renters who have nothing to do with reality, and again some controversial owners of large-scale capital, and again some waste as a guarantee of loans, and an account for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This will not allow us to vote on such legal proposals as provided for by the amendments to the Law on the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, because we want to make such legal proposals, future legislative proposals, one transparent, normal, decent business, the treatment of public funds from our country, not to create a place where individuals, like all those involved in business and Agrobanks and Unvierzal Banks and the Vojvodine Development Bank, will not be able to take the funds of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but from our country to make a decent, orderly, normal state. Accepting such an amendment would be not one step back, but a step seven miles back and so something the Serbian Progressive Party will neither accept nor allow.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21551	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21552	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, I assume you will give me an answer to the question after my presentation- what is today with Minister Vujovic, does he support the sentence you gave him or perhaps resigned as minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21553	It's in Sweden.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21554	In Sweden? Excuse me. I thought it was a key matter for ministers to defend the laws, but, well, the minister flew to Sweden, there's the Minister of Local Administration and Self-Government, who just mentioned the time and that this law is a consequence of the past. You mean, Minister, at a time when you were a minister, at that time, or for another time? You are one of the many people of the Democratic Party who, I believe, and voters of the Serbian Progressive Party and MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party are taking very important places in this government. Why do we support this amendment? Because you have two options to fight, so to speak, against the bad laws. One is to ask that they are not passed, and this two-member law can be sought either by erasing them or by seeking to amend those members and by trying to fix this law. I don't think this ministry law can be fixed, that he's bad. We heard earlier in the discussion that it is very dangerous, strange, etc., that one government is the basic law that regulates the responsibilities of the ministries after six, seven, eight months, as far as this other government in the SNS-SPS coalition is concerned, changes that law. That's bad. I personally and expected my parliamentary group, when we saw something happening to the ministries, that there would be some changes in the humane sphere, that there would be a change of some ministers, not a change of the Ministry Act, that would change the selector of the team, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, not the Ministry Act. In any case, this ministry law will bring nothing new to the citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens will continue to live hard with small salaries, with small pensions, etc., and this law will not fix it. Minister, I don't know if you have answers to a number of questions related to this law - which is why other provisions of the Ministry Act are not applicable, which is why a number of appointments have not been made, which is why the laws in this area are not being applied, and I am simply embarrassed to say how bad this government is and how bad it is in Serbia, but this amendment of the law will not change that in any way. That is why I support this amendment. On the other hand, I think it would be good if we didn't talk about some previous times today, not going back two, three years. If we're talking about the past, we'd better talk about the past that's recent, about the arrests of Serbian Progressive Party officials last week, who take millions of dinars under the table. Maybe we could talk about it a little bit, if that's the subject. If it's not a topic, we'd better not go back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21555	The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21556	I do not want to respond to comments and arguments that have nothing to do with the true content of the amendments these draft laws and amendments and additions to the Law, however, this is an opportunity to answer a fundamental question that has been asked at all – whether restoring the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance to directly manage its ownership in banks and other financial institutions, does this mean creating any new conflict of interest that has been eliminated with previous solutions? To be clear again, this package of laws eliminates the conflict of interest managed by the Deposit Insurance Agency. It was managed by the Ministry of Finance and the Government in such a way that it was possible for criteria targeted and to be fully objectively implemented in determining the premiums, when deciding the measures for banks in difficulty and when paying the amounts for secured deposits could have been more easily misused. At this point, this conflict of interest is breaking down. The agency is turning into a very clear defined institution that cannot now dominate political interest in any way, and the fact that the government previously managed its ownership through the Agency is now put directly and clearly in charge, jurisdiction, and hence the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, which is actually a cleaner solution. You'll know who mismanaged banks, if he mismanaged banks, and you'll know how and how much it has to be worth to whom if the banks are run badly. The third actor, the National Bank, gets powers with which she is able to as an institution with the most professional capacity...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21557	Time. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21558	Neither ministers are elected by law nor by any law are changed by human beings, and I really don't understand how a law professor doesn't know the basic things of law. However, I would like to subdue the more recent discussion under the people's terms "what is my grandmother's pleasure, that's what happened to her," but one other much more important thing does not change the team's selector that achieves victory. The team's selection of reforms, which wins both internationally and internally, does not change, and what has changed and when citizens are, when the only place where such things happen and change are the polls, elections, in Serbia and 2012 and 2014 said many goodbyes and goodbyes, and SNS and Alexander Vukic gave the opportunity to create a decent and normal society from our country. The other thing that burned my ears, which is that for two years, the SNS, in fact, is at the heart of our policy, there is a fight against corruption and there is no zero tolerance in the fight against corruption. No one believed us, not even a colleague of Veselinović. When former regime people were arrested and processed for all those things they sinned at 12 and some in 15 years dealing with and leading this country, they said it was rematchism. The moment the coalition partners, the coalition party, were processed, they didn't believe it either. Now it bothers them why they arrest people who are SNS. Well, it's not the first time. What if they're arrested? Everyone will be arrested, no matter what membership card he had, no matter who he knew. If you're with them, then you can do anything, if you're a member of his party, then you can do anything and you won't miss the hair on your head.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21559	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21560	He never once said he was distracted by anything at the Vojvodina Development Bank. He didn't mind what he was doing and what Bojan Pajtic was doing, but he doesn't mind when the state does what it has to do, and that's to arrest those who have sinned against the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21561	The word has a folk MP, Dr Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21562	I don't mind being told about the arrests of each other, nor do I mind, but I think it's a prosecution case and it's a court case, and we're not a judicial authority, but a legislative one, and some often forget it. Speaking of arrests, they better talk about those who are close to them, know better, have more knowledge about the arrests of their members, how they received money, gave, etc. And it's finally fresher. When it comes to "Development Bank" there is one thing the public needs to know and is legally very delicate. So these days, we've been given information, officially, that the bank's assets were larger than the passport, and in that case, there's no bankruptcy. Therefore, no decision on bankruptcy could be taken, possibly a decision on liquidation could be made. That's what anyone who went to law school knows, not law school. Someone made the wrong decision because all the creditors could have been charged and they were charged, even the other funds for the founders of the bank, which means that someone made a political decision. Whether she was good or not, it doesn't matter, but it's important on the legal side that someone made the wrong decision, that they made a decision about the bankruptcy of a bank that had more activity than a passport, and it's very dangerous and someone will have to answer for it someday. In addition to all the campaigns made towards that bank, she had more passive than active. I'd like to talk about this law today, not the banking stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21563	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very surprised by this controversy over an amendment where the competent ministry should manage insurance companies and banks where the founder of the Republic is. Who's supposed to run it? Let's drop some more stories about those agencies. We said that there are several agencies, there are regulatory bodies, there are independent bodies, like the Anti-Corruption Agency, but in this story we have a classic state body that has been doing some work for both the Government of the Republic. Now it's gone. So the substituted authority returns to whoever gave it. It is the government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministry, especially if it takes into account everything we have and the experience we have from the past. Let me remind you, Agrobank, the loss of the state of 600m euros. There have been stories here about "Vojvodina Development Bank", we will see how this bankruptcy will end, whether by liquidating or returning the work permit, but one question is always being raised. Now we're trying through some replacement thesis to do something. Someone bad runs an institution where the state has given some capital. Half the capital disappears somewhere, half of it stays and you say – it's not for liquidation, there's no responsible ones. One dollar missing, one dollar missing, the bigger the problem. So someone does not comply with the law or according to the spirit of a good businessman led a certain institution. Don't mix the thesis. The aim of these amendments and the addition of the Ministry Act is to restore one activity under the supervision of the Republic of Serbia. There are no stories here about the government being incompetent or failing. Unlike some other governments, this government solves problems it hasn't made. The thing is, in my opinion, that whoever's been causing trouble teaches us how to fix them. What did he do? You think he's a little more experienced in that. Now the reasons for solving the problems that we have encountered in the country are cited as an excuse to vote for mistrust with the government or the Prime Minister. When this government starts to cause problems, we're either gonna change it or we're gonna go to the election. I'm throwing a glove to beat us. There's nothing to argue about. The power to keep at any cost, past the will of the citizens, will not, unlike some who pushed the state into trouble, debt, rob banks to finance their political parties' campaigns, to survive in power. We don't need that kind of power. Not only does this government solve problems, but it looks beyond those problems, which it solves, to do something good for the state, which we found in a desperate state, and no one can deny it. Please, those solutions you had while leading the government of the Republic of Serbia, while leading citizens of the Republic of Serbia, don't suggest to us any more. We've seen what they're like, what the results are. If you have any serious objections, if you have any serious suggestions, we don't mind being accepted and accepted, but if the suggestion is just to keep the story for the sake of the story, to run politics for the sake of politics, without results that are going to reflect either on the quality of the state or on the quality of life of the citizens, don't suggest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21565	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21566	I'm using the MP's time group. In response to the Deputy Prime Minister, if we carefully read the stenogram, speak in favor of the amendment to delete this. The explanation that due to banks between April and today is only "Serbian Bank" and we both know for sure that "Serbian Bank" is a special case due to a Colloquitically spoken military line in either the NBS or Yugoslavia, "Universal Banka" was said in February 2014. I asked you why this solution differs from the Ministry Act and the Ministry of Finance's powers of April this year? In the second part of the explanation, you said it didn't matter whether it was banks or not, that it was a conflict of interest that exists to the Agency because of political interference, so now we're going to delete it and put it directly into the ministry, which means there won't be any political interference. That's exactly why we're asking this member to be deleted. The way you explain it only fuels my suspicion that this solution is a one-time solution. I wouldn't want much more than you if I were right. Because this would mean considerable damage to the Republic of Serbia's budget. I would very much like to make a mistake, but if you tell me there were banks, it was just the "Serbian Bank" from April to today, and if you tell me that this solves the conflict of interest due to the abuse of the Deposit Insurance Agency, and we don't even have the information, there may be procedures for abuse of the obvious conflict of interest in the Deposit Insurance Agency and you say it won't be because now it's going to be a direct political decision. The ministry is a political couple of excellencies, which would be said in ancient Serbian. So we have to decide if you want to give me an answer that would convince me that returning a direct political decision in the case of banks and institutions, insurance companies when the Republic has some action, from how much you want, one to how much you want, is it for single use or not? If not, why wasn't there a solution in April when we passed the Ministry Act? Anything else will just be food to suspect that this is a special case. I repeat, I would hate for this suspicion to be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21567	The word is Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21568	I'm not sure I can convince you, because I'm not sure if this replacement is a thesis I've just heard is random or intentional, but I'm going to start from being unintentional. It's about changing one decision-making system that was in place, I can't say how many years, but I'm sure it's been years since May 2014 and before the previous government. Following that decision-making system, the Deposit Insurance Agency has combined two types of competences. One was a type of regulatory automatic, closely regulated decision-making system related to the use of secured deposits. Others and others were related to bank ownership management. With this solution now saved, the law amending the Ministry Act is only a tail, the ultimate consequence of a new and in my personal opinion of a cleaner concept. The Deposit Insurance Agency has much more narrower jurisdiction, far cleaner regulatory and can't, it's never quite impossible, but much more difficult to fall under the influence of political decision-making, because they know the rules on how to provide, and then pay compensation in insurance. There's no dispute here. The National Bank is given greater management rights over difficult banks, and the Ministry of Finance is given clear management rights that are normally given to the owner everywhere in the world. The state of Serbia is the state of Serbia, the finance ministry plays a political role and therefore citizens choose their governments and their ministers. So that's why the finance ministry gets jurisdiction, so it can be directly responsible and implement the government's policy. If that government policy is bad, it will be seen by the collapse of banks, but you will know who managed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21569	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21570	I'll be following the amendment from the time of the parliamentary group. I will briefly refer to this debate when it comes to the role of the NBS and when it comes to the liquidation, i.e. the bankruptcy of banks. My esteemed colleague Arsic, whom I greatly appreciate for his expertise, said several things that are true. In any case, one who decides may decide whether to initiate bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings. However, he changed the thesis a little. He talked a little bit about bankruptcy, a little bit about liquidation. So I repeat the bankruptcy is triggered when there is not enough funds to calm the trustees. Liquidation is initiated in other cases when owners decide that they no longer want to carry out that activity, so are banks and companies. I'm just saying that no one can pass the law to decide to launch a bankruptcy procedure unless the conditions for bankruptcy proceedings are met. That how much trust the bank owes is one thing, and the other thing is whether there are legal conditions to launch bankruptcy. Who prejudges the conditions by making false reports violates the law of bankruptcy or liquidation and that is a criminal offence. That's why I pointed out that bad practice and of course it shouldn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21571	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21572	Since my colleague mentioned me, whether I have the right to a replica or to use the time of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21573	He just told you his name, nothing casual.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21574	He misread me, but good. First of all, we need to clear up, the very bankruptcy of a company, and one bank is not the same. The company has its assets, which are in financial terms assets, in real estate, in goods, etc. The Bank shall have certain public powers and bankruptcy proceedings shall begin by depriveing the Central Bank of the work permit of a particular bank or another financial institution. Why do I say public authority? Because the first state guarantees all stakes up to 50,000 euros, regardless of the bank's structure, whether it's private or state-owned, for the state's even more. The second thing, these banks have deposited funds from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the bank has those resources. When do you lose your work permit? When the risk of non-performing loans is increased. In order to avoid further borrowing from citizens or other financial institutions, the bank then moves into the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy manager appointed by the Deposit Insurance Agency. That's the procedure, and don't mix business with the bank. They may be in the legal and technical sense exactly the same, but by calculating the activity that the bank performs, the way in which the liquidation or bankruptcy takes place is quite different from that of a company. In the case of a company, it is sufficient for 60 days to be blocked, or 30 days to initiate the bankruptcy procedure. When it comes to banks, not only does it not take one day to block, but the degree of its credit performance and the risk exposure of those same loans are accounted for. So we can talk about whether, when it comes to the Vojvodine Development Bank, it met the conditions, but the moment the loans started to return to goods and it was given back to the state, because the province is part of the state's apparatus, it was part of the state's apparatus, at the moment the bank's business was questioned. So don't blame anyone else but whoever approved those loans, who took part in it, and how did he give consent to return toothbrushes to schools instead of credit? Again, what the bank has given Serbia's citizens must return, because it records the loss and abductions from other funds, regardless of the origin of the money, always at the end of the Republic of Serbia's budget, whether from funds directly or indirectly, is absolutely whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21575	Thank you. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together MPs Gordana Comić, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Vladimir Pavicevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, Mrs Udovici, the People's and Honored Guests of the Government of Serbia and the National Bank, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law supplementing the Ministry Act. We suggest that Article 2 be deleted. Our key argument, gentlemen, for eradicating this member concerns the dignity of the National Assembly and the dignity of every MP in the National Assembly, gentlemen. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, please make the argument for this member especially heard by the MPs who are most sensitive to this text – it is deleted, and as far as I have noticed these are MPs and Orlic and Arsic and Babić and Markovic and Krlic. It is not true, gentlemen, that these changes, which we are discussing today, concern some two papers. Here's the thing about these changes, to hear and see Mr. Orlic, for example, honored gentlemen. These are now some hundreds of pages of text, gentlemen, and let me just remind you that the government sent these bills here on January 28th. We had to read all of this, to prepare amendments with the knowledge that we had previously discussed two major draft laws on amendments and amendments to the law on defence and on the military. How is it possible, I am now asking here, that MPs do not question the dignity of the National Assembly when it comes to the government's relationship with that dignity, without talking about an explanation for the adoption of this law, where these laws are wrongly hierarchized, and then the Ministry Act adapts to some other laws? Dear gentlemen, I suppose you know what laws are based on, and what other laws are. Because of dignity and this amendment - it is deleted, that I propose to adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21577	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21578	Thank you, Madam President. The question is, given the mention, the right to replication or...?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21579	You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21580	Thank you very much. So, ten minutes and you're not overly effective. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is so much needed to read both the proposed law on amendments and amendments to the Ministry Act with all the following arguments, so when you find out what the possible implications of this law are for someone else or vice versa. It is very clear that it is a relationship with the law concerning the work of the Deposit Insurance Agency. Check out the corrections in that other law that might have something to do with the law we're discussing right now. I've just shown a little before the amount of paper that applies to this law right now. It is not difficult to check if we have hundreds and hundreds more pages in this law regarding the agency's work. Ten minutes, and I was more than correct when I gave the evaluation, I needed to get over both, so I think all objections on the subject of the amount of work that was to be processed are not standing. We're talking very specifically. One brief note on the subject of personal experience, the contents of certain amendments here. Neither do I, nor do I trust any of the other colleagues I share these benches with, with pride, I would add, I share these benches, there's no problem with whether words or words are written or spoken one way or another. Everything we do has only and directly to do with what we use in our amendments or explanations or in any way, by doing the work we do, they have consequences. When these consequences exist and are good, words can be used to sound any way, it absolutely doesn't matter. We'll back it up. That's what we've been doing, and we're going to do, unrelated to what side of the proposal it comes from. When those words don't mean anything, when you just...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21581	You used the replica. Time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21582	... echoes in the light of some unsatisfactory reasoning and the grounds that here today and any other day just over and over again, without any practical use, we will certainly be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21583	Please finish. Thank you. Is there anyone else answering the amendment? (No) After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of Glava 1 and Article 1 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovici, the Honorable Guests, the continuation of our debate on amendments to these seven draft laws is the best indicator and, above all, the Honored President, I would like to hear it from the MP, Mr Orlic, if it were not true that it was enough ten minutes for us to prepare properly. It is not about one draft law of these seven, but about all seven draft laws, gentlemen, since Mrs Tabakovic and Mr Vujovic have also been presented here three days ago as a single package of solutions as a single package of solutions. This means that it is not enough for a national MP to read one bill, which really makes up two members, to understand all these changes and this package of solutions, but it is necessary to read these hundreds of pages of text, members of the seven draft laws, so that one MP can understand and interpret the proposed package of amendments. Now it is only a question for each of us here individually – are we responsible enough to approach in exactly that way, in accordance with the principle of ethics of responsibility for our work? Well, ten minutes wasn't enough even for that one bill. We have proposed to delete Article 1 of this Bill on Deposit Insurance, with one key argument and several additional ones. The key argument is that MPs are constantly to look after the preservation of the dignity of the National Assembly, and the government is constantly trying to lower the dignity of our congregation. And our amendment -- it is an answer to this article to that position and to the government's approach, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21585	Thank you. The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21586	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected guests from the ministry, respected colleagues, respected citizens, this very argument we have heard about both this bill and the previous amendments to the Ministry Act, shows in itself how pointless it is and how contrary it is to what we have to do in practice. In order for citizens to know what it is, the draft deposit insurance law, the amendment to Article 1, which reads: "This law regulates the compulsory insurance of deposits of natural persons, entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized legal persons with banks, in order to protect the deposits of those persons in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of the bank and to preserve the stability of the financial system". A very clear and loud member defines why we adopt this bill and why deposit insurance is important for maintaining the financial stability of the system. It is this law and all these laws that we bring and change are guarantees that this government, that this Assembly will do whatever it takes to protect the interests of its citizens. As MPs have the right, I do not dispute, that they believe that a certain amendment or a certain member of the law should be deleted, so we have the right to support these members and of course this bill on deposit insurance will be supported by MPs. It is irresponsible and unfair to challenge our right to support this bill. Calling on honesty, I think it's only fair that all the MPs in this House are doing what they think is good for the citizens, and we just think that supporting such a bill on the insurance of deposits is certainly in the interest of the citizens. We are responsible enough and we are dedicated enough to support this government and to support changes that are in the interests of citizens and, therefore, this amendment to Article 1, as well as most of the amendments which, in their explanation, have a proposal to "be deleted", and not - we suggest something else, cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21587	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21588	Thank you, Madam President. So, briefly. I join the invitation not to accept this amendment. Also, I'm using literally 10 seconds to give a little apology to my colleagues, if my presentation and mentioning 10 minutes to process the previous law was misunderstood, I certainly didn't want to burden him with some deliberate overestimation. I was just trying to be realistic, and I think I've given an assessment of how valuable this job is to the weather, fully in line with what it is. In addition to the reason for these amendments to this law that we are discussing now, I will deal with only them now. The point that there is not enough time to process matter is that the answer is in the fact that this law now has an amazing content of six pages. I think that's what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21589	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honored Mrs Udovici and the Honored Guests and Guest, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a deposit insurance law. Our amendment reads, gentlemen, "is deleted". I have two things to do here, Mr President, as some sort of argument to accept our amendment to Article 2 which reads as "expect". First, I must say, it is true that the bill itself has a small number of pages, but, gentlemen, the bill is always followed by reasons for the law. These reasons go up to 81 pages, and I suppose it is the assumption that every MP in our Assembly reads, of course, the contents of the members of the bill, including Article 2, but also the reasons for the law being passed, because that makes sense. So there's a rulebook, there's a procedure for sending some bill and it's not expected that one MP reads anything but members of the bill. It seems to me, gentlemen, that this debate so far, and here is now about the amendment to Article 2, the best illustrated in one text written, here, right to tell you, in 1927, and the Honored President Gojkovic, it is the text of a professor of law school, you will certainly enjoy this text. Here's what he said -- this congregation majority, and I'm looking at this in 1927, not depending on the people, but on the government, it's subordinated to the government, doing everything the government says to her, the congregation majority doesn't care to satisfy the people's desires, or needs, but rather to satisfy the government. Well, we're not gonna do that in 2015, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21591	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21592	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, respected Mrs Udovici and the Honored Guests and Guest, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 3 of this Bill on Deposit Insurance. Here I'd like to add another one, compared to the basic argument we've made here in writing. First of all, to the MPs now, honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there should not be any sensitivity to the wording of the amendment, which reads "is deleted", because the NBS has accepted our two amendments to the laws tabled by the NBS, and the amendment contained is "expunged". That means that this content, gentlemen, can make sense when we need to wipe something that's wrong, gentlemen. I believe that, above all, because of this government's relationship with the National Assembly, the government should accept that Article 3 of this bill is deleted, that when the Government accepts this, to leave little time to discuss the content of these laws, and that after that we here, having time to prepare, discuss and interpret, may be able to say that some change is good. If the government doesn't do it, gentlemen of the people, then we need to do it here. I now address the MPs first and foremost, I ask you to reconsider this approach to the government, to consider what constitutional position our National Assembly here is to protect, even when there is an attack by the Government, and here we often have such situations, respected Members of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21593	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21594	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovici and the Honorable Guests and Guests, I only have one previous note, it has not long since happened that I have a three-in-a-kind chance to speak. I've often tried to get it to myself through replicas, but it didn't work out. But here, the amendment debate is an opportunity, gentlemen, for us to discuss here thoroughly the content of a bill that the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers not to be a debate. My idea, respected gentlemen Members of Parliament, and the idea of Mr. Zivkovic, who, as of today, could not enter the hall today to discuss, is that, since the MPs did not have time to think about the meaning of the content of Article 4 of this Bill on Deposit Insurance, we can then imagine what kind of situation the citizens are in, which all the draft laws and laws concern. Then our idea, I think, is that it can only come to the support of the MPs here, that today we go in line, respected gentlemen, member by member, law by law, from first to seventh, to make sure that all MPs first know what is contained in these laws, and then, respected gentlemen, and those who elected us here in the free elections, which are citizens. So it's time for us and the citizens to be familiar with what's contained, and not that, as the government wants, beyond the debate, beyond the openness, here at the Assembly, they send bill proposals that are not expected to be discussed. I ask the MPs to reconsider this argument one more time. I have further arguments for the amendments "to be deleted" to finally send a message to the Government – this is no longer the case. Dear gentlemen, we are here the legislative authority, the most important political institution in our country and, we like to say, the sanctuary of political life. It can't be broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21595	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21596	Thank you. As proof that the reading of the first, second and third laws and the attempt to submit amendments is always in the grip of time, the amendment to Article 5 in its last fifth position says – the Agency is obliged to provide at least once quarterly to the Ministry of Finance with a report on the state of the Deposit Insurance Fund, as well as a projection of the position of the Fund for the next 12 months. I don't have an amendment, just because it's a problem to do everything, but I'm asking you to language-correct this in the voting day, because as it's written for the next 12 months, it looks like it refers to every quarterly report, which isn't logical and it's not intended, I guess, but then, with the Committee together or a delay in voting, make it clear that the next 12 months is the next 12 months, and the quarterly report on the Fund is something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21597	The word is Dr. Kori Udovicki, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21598	It is intended to be quarterly in 12 months. (Gordana Comić, from the scene: every quarter? ) It is one of the heritage that has always made it difficult for me to analyze in Serbia. We always give projections by the end of the year, like the world ends at the end of the year. You need a vision for some period longer before you every time. It doesn't matter when it's a new year, it matters that we know from every quarter what we expect for the next year. I'm not talking about the new year. ) Good, and not even about the quarter itself, if you will, but, in any case, that is the intention – every quarterly projection report for the next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21599	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovici, the Honorable Guest and Honorable Guest, Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to Article 5 of this Bill, which is actually here earlier, I think, either of which is a word. We propose that this Article 5 be deleted, and as an additional argument to that key argument that we have written in the light of this amendment, please, gentlemen, we recommend reading the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. Our government here has told us that our country's goal is Serbia's full membership in the EU. Dear gentlemen, here is the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament here. The Rules of Procedure finely states that when discussed in a legislative procedure, some text must come first, but be careful, in the Assembly, not somewhere on the site, so that we MPs must run to find out where it is and what it is, but when it comes to the Assembly. So the first reading goes first, and then the conclusions of the first reading are drawn. Then it rests a little, dear gentlemen of the Parliament, and then it comes to another reading. Then prepares the ground for second reading conclusions and then, here's chapter 5, third reading and all that in parliament, gentlemen. And here on January 28th we get, on the 30th, we already have a session and we only have to read one reading, and probably some don't get to read, as I admit, I haven't been able to read it all. I haven't had enough time, gentlemen. So how do you plead for these bill proposals? Here's practice, here's the rules. Let us adhere to good practices and good customs, gentlemen, and in our congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21601	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21602	This is the parliament and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia respects and implements acts relating to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which, ladies and gentlemen, is the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which is now in hand by Mr Pavicevic. We must respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and I believe that those who wrote such a Rules of Procedure in the eighth session, the DS whom Mr Pavicevic helped cross the census and enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that they saw exactly the same Rules of Procedure on the work of the European Parliament, that they copied or modified those solutions to be applied to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia applies the provisions laid down in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, nothing more, nothing less. If this is not enough for the amendment promoter, it is enough to knock Mrs. Komic out front, so to speak, did you foresee such things in the Rules of Procedure on Work when you were part of the group that made this Rules of Procedure? Why would we change such a democratic fluid, such perfection as it shows, when it was changed in 2009? Why would they change such a democratic fluid? Why, if this Rules of Procedure is written based on the experiences of the European Parliament? Why would we now modify and change the solutions that the DS predicted? We have to respect. We cannot respect the laws of other countries, we cannot comply with the regulations of other parliaments, but we must respect the regulations provided for by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If that is not good for the amendment promoter, it is not good enough, free, only one row ahead let it come down and give all possible criticism to those who wrote and adopted such a Rules of Procedure. Do not place such things on the burden of the congregation majority made by the SNS. On the other hand, I would rather talk about the amendment – Article 5 is deleted. You know, laughter is a good way to make progress from what is garbage, scum. Laughing is now a good way to make democratic progress. I'll let you know, Madam President, though, because I think you have a duty to know. This morning, before the start of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, our colleague Marko Atlagic was attacked at a pedestrian crossing in downtown Belgrade. He was attacked by a former colleague, DS MP and former minister, Mr Djelic, who by years could also be his son. He attacked him most embarrassingly, raising his hand to the older man, raising his finger to the height, threatening: “If you continue to mention me in the National Assembly, you are finished, you will end quickly. ” Is that the country directed by DS and DS officials? Is that a decent dictionary? Are we in a lack of argument here with esteemed men - cattle, garbage, scum, now smiles, and on the street attacks and threats? Is it democracy directed by Bozidar Djelic and DS? Is this a decent and normal state and a normal and decent dictionary, where instead of good morning fellows, or at the end of the passage of calm and normal, come threats, come raised hand, lift finger? I also suggested that I suggest that Mr Atlagic file a criminal report, so let the Serbian judicial authorities deal with it. But regardless of blackmail, regardless of the threats, regardless of the pressures of the former regime, both in the government and in parliament and in our entire society, the SNS will continue to work even stronger, with even more dedicated work on forming and building a decent, orderly, normal state. I am grateful to Mr Atlagic for his fatherly response, because he reacted politely, culturally, parliamentaryly, democraticly, because he extended further and in no way initiated such things, nor responded, because it cannot be answered by proscration. There is no problem with Professor Atlagic facing demons of the past, with the blistering of his aunt's couch, with all the things that Mr Djelic has done in our public finances, no Professor Atlagic of these problems, there is a problem with Bozidar Djelic and DS. On the other hand, I will answer every smile and every one of those words addressed on the other hand, and I will respond to any confusion on the other hand to the facts and I will answer the truth. But let's see what kind of article 5 is. Let's see what the amendment's proposings want to delete. See Article 5, the last position: "The Agency is obliged to provide at least once a quarter to the Ministry of Finance with a report on the state of the Deposit Insurance Fund, as well as a projection of the position of the Fund for the next 12 months. “ There are, among other things, views and the previous four, and that is the view that the amendment promoter wants to delete, that there is no report on the state of the fund, that there is no report by the agency, that there is no transparent proposal and all that is going to happen for the next 12 months. Again, the amendment promoter, I guess in some, I can't clearly define it, except for some political hatred or ignorance, wants us to go back to the dark villa that nothing is known, that there's no report, that we don't know what's going to be in the Deposit Insurance Fund for the next 12 months, that we don't know how much financial resources are in that fund. Is that what the amendmentr wanted to convince us with such an argument that we should vote for this amendment? No, the SNS and the parliamentary group are always for a transparent relationship with public finances, for a transparent relationship with the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund, not erasure, that there are no reports. We are about to respect the rules provided for in the laws, the provisions applicable to our country and to our Parliament, and not something that applies in some neighbouring countries or in the European Parliament, as I believe the legislators of such a Rules of Procedure are, for which no one is happy in this room, but we have to apply it. But it is the democratic fluid of the Democratic Party, and the criticism that the amendment's proposing has no longer had to be spoken in that tone because I am sure those to whom it is addressed would hear it with a whisper because they are very close to it. Because we want the state of public finances to be improved, because we want a transparent attitude towards public finances and the state of the Deposit Insurance Fund, the Serbian Progressive Party will not vote for such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21603	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21604	Thank you. I have a replica of the presentation of fellow MP Zoran Babic, since my name and membership in the writing group of the Rules of Procedures of the National Assembly were mentioned, which is incorrect. The name is true, that's my name, and everything else is made up. So I took part in the work, along with colleagues from all parliamentary groups, in the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly. It was a task force I participated in. Twice the law came to the agenda, so it was eventually adopted. I did not participate in the Working Group for the Making of Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have written amendments, I have made proposals that have not been accepted. I'm not surprised at the enthusiasm that makes up whatever it is, so that the noise can cover the easily verifiable fact. But if you really want the help of us who have worked in working groups for the laws of various people and for the resolutions and for the Rules of Procedures, I am at your disposal. For three years, it's been quite enough to amend this Rules of Procedure. I really offer you everything I have, if you judge that this knowledge is too little to make a good Rules of Procedure, that we bring in the rules of procedure within the next three to six months as most, in collaboration with the minority, thinks it should be applied in the National Assembly during the sittings and in all other procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21605	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21606	It is likely that the previous speaker is not the chairman of the National Assembly in the eighth session, which has thrown out and removed the entire assembly for weeks. It is likely that the previous pay phone is not the same as the chairman who found it impossible to obtain the right to replication. That's impossible. And, thank God, we have an open parliament and an electronic parliament and all those databases where everything we've done in the past, everything we're doing right now, so someone in the future will also remind us of the good, but also the bad things. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: The president, the minister escapes. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21607	What did you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21608	Is this the same decent democratic state directed by colleagues who earn while other colleagues speak? In this National Assembly and ministers, but also the MPs come willingly, except when Bozidar Djelic and representatives of senior officials of the former, future, new, changed Democratic parties do not wait for them at the pedestrian crossing and threatens do not try to tell them how they will behave or whether they will mention someone or not. I beg your courtesy, but still, one more sentence. All we heard earlier was cry and fall apart. The task force and the working group were all, regardless of what those people thought and didn't respect, but the responsibility of everyone, not those who are such a Rules of Procedure, I believe poor, I believe disabled, and voted and brought him to the point where we had to apply him, which is definitely the Democratic Party, in any aggregate state.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21609	Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21610	Thank you. It's a little bit of a problem to replicate when you don't understand the concept of replica, but, well, that's why we're here to help each other and teach each other and, let's say, when you don't understand the concept of rule of law, and that's a little hard, but we're all going to do it together. So it was a simple untruth told about my membership in the Writing Working Group of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: You didn't vote for it either. ) National MP Zoran Babic throws – we voted for it. So, of course we voted, you didn't argue. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Well? ) National MP Zoran Babic adds: "Well? “ You slowed down, or I challenged the fact and the truth that I was a member of the Working Party for the Making of Rules of Procedure, and I did not. I didn't. I was a member of the Working Party for the Making of the Law on the National Assembly and all that you think you should refer as a criticism to my work, my amendments, now or ever, I am at your disposal again. It would just be good to focus on what we're talking about, a little campaign against Bozidar Djelic, a little bit to give the general valer of everything and everything, and not to admit and not simply say – I'm sorry, I was wrong, I confused working groups in the Assembly and for the Rules of Procedure, so I didn't read. It happens. It's no big deal. It's a problem of not understanding the concept of replica, and very often, like here, with accusations against a man who doesn't have any function in the National Assembly and anywhere, it doesn't even understand the concept of rule of law, what is a threat to the position of power and what is making a case because some verbal violence entertains. Your choice. There's nothing you can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21611	You will agree that the notice that the MP has been attacked deserves our time here in parliament, no matter who committed the attack. Am I supposed to quote all the pitches now, MP Komic, because you say when someone throws, then you point out who and what he said, so since you said we'd help each other, I want to learn something too? I like to study. Did you answer the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic, from the post: By amendment. ) According to the amendment. Then let's go in a row. Dr. Aleksandra Tomic's been waiting a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21612	The President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, I should have reported to the Rules of Procedure because you have indeed violated, the chairman, the Rules of Procedure, but I am reporting from the amendment. Because you allowed Members of Parliament Comic to discuss the amendment under Article 5, and it was under discussion on Article 4. Even the minister answered those questions. Well, that's the Rules of Procedure we're talking about and respecting the rights and respect of the opposition. I think that compensation is great in the practically chairing position, which really comes out to meet members of opposition parties and MPs and really gives too many rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21613	I have to answer that. You're wrong. Article 5 said, and it was explained by Article 4 and the minister responded to Article 4, so mistakes are possible, often happening from all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21614	Yeah, but none of us reacted at that point, and he had a basis for that. How many times, simply, the opposition MPs had no basis, so they always responded to such things and won the right in such a place. But it doesn't matter. We will continue to discuss this amendment on Article 5, precisely that European practice to respect the laws and that developed European countries have a plan for the 27-nation sessions in the next year, how the sessions will look, which the laws will be voted upon, and that many MPs of the opposition parties should be told that reforms are under way, that the people of Serbia voted for these reforms, that you can't be amended - is deleted, in accordance with Article 5, where the interests of citizens are protected from simply being informed about what is going on with the state of bankruptcy or liquidation, but that the National Bank of Serbia and the Deposit Insurance Agency and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the competent ministry, should be informed at any time about what is happening with the deposits of Serbian citizens. That Article 5 is now allowing for control in this way. The amendment, which is said to be deleted, simply would not have control, would have devasted, such as by 2012, devasting institutions and the way state funds were spent so that banks would simply be placed into deposits of legal entities that had not guaranteed loans close to the tycoons at the time, or close to those powers that held the relevant ministries. Therefore, with this practice, the SNS ceases. The practice is being reformed, not only by public finances, but by ways that Serbian citizens have security, and that means that their deposits held in banks in the future will be really provided at any moment, no matter what happens to banks. Therefore, this amendment has a full justification for why it should not be accepted. On the other hand, reading the law and the argument that there was not enough time to read that law was a practice of the parliaments of the Kingdom of SHS in the 30s. Since then, it has simply been the fact that the technique has progressed, that political life has progressed in Serbia, that parliamentaryism in Serbia has shown a high degree of development, right through debates like this. There is no need to read laws like that in the European Parliament. When we reach a certain level of legislation, when we plan the laws in the next year, when you will know in advance the six months that we will pass, and when we reform and maintain a system that works so that justice and justice will be served, then we will be able to discuss that the European Parliament and the mechanisms used in it will also be used in the Republic of Serbia. Until then, we are in the phase of reform, economic reforms when it is necessary to change a large set of laws, the competences that certain institutions had, and we have been completely devastated in terms of decision making when we need to bring us simply to be competitive in our economy with EU member states. Then we will be able to comply with European standards. And we're on that path. By 2020, all the chapters we are going to discuss with the EU should be presented as the ultimate result of the regulated system. As a result, such amendments do not have such arguments and represent one weak marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21615	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21616	President-in-Office, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, immediately at the beginning to say that this amendment cannot be accepted for any more reason, and the simplest reason is that the gentlemen of this amendment have submitted 180 of these amendments where they are said to be deleted. The government responds that they are not valid in the light of these amendments, these amendments. So it's not accepted. Look, since these gentlemen who have submitted these amendments are young in the congregation room, and they are probably not used to it yet, and they can't get what needs to be done here in the Assembly, so eventually they'll reach that pace. We're running here at 100 meters, and they'll get there later. So when it comes to the European Parliament, no one is in a hurry. I said we'd run for 100 meters and we'd run for it. So the European Parliament cannot compare itself with us, because no one dictates to them, not to us that God, is not dictated by the law, but we want to bring ourselves into harmony with ourselves as soon as possible and solve all the problems we need. The ones who can't make it, let them tap in the place a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21617	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that deletes Article 5 is at least irresponsible and raises the legal and economic security of citizens and the Serbian economy. In Article 5, in my humble opinion, the most important points of view are points 1, 3 and 5, and colleagues from the former regime suggest that this article be deleted. Article 5(1) states – The Agency and the National Bank of Serbia conclude a co-operation agreement governing co-operation and exchange of information and data regarding banks and guaranteeing deposits. That's attitude one. Item 3 – The National Bank of Serbia is obliged to notify the Agency in good time of the measures in the process of control of the credit rating and the legality of the bank's operations to the bank due to the deterioration of the bank's financial situation, and to submit to it a draft report on the minimum cost test in accordance with the law governing banks. Item 5. – The Agency is obliged to provide at least once a quarter to the Ministry of Finance with a report on the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund, as well as a projection of the balance of that fund for the next 12 months. Here, as an epochal democratic achievement, is now proposed an amendment erasing the entire Article 5, including these three very important attitudes, and it is said to be in line with the European and democratic concepts that the former regime has. As far as SNS is concerned, I wish these provisions had existed before. Serbian citizens who have had bitter experiences with banks spoken of by my colleague Zoran Babic would probably not have such experiences. As far as European rules are concerned in the work of parliament. There is nothing against these European SNS rules, but what we really have a lot to say against is hypocrisy about interpreting these European rules. For example, European rules are in the eighth assembly of the National Assembly. So, from June 2008 to May 2012, it looked about like this. This is the 2009 data. A fine of 3,000 dinars has fined a number of MPs from two parliamentary groups: the SRS and the NS parliamentary groups, that is, forward Serbia. With a fine of 8,000 dinars, I'm being punished, it's not nice to speak for myself, but here it is. Well, then a fine of 32,000 dinars punishes a large number of MPs. Well, on March 27, 2009, 3,000 dinars, then 8,000 dinars, then 16,000 dinars. Well, the 40th session of the Administrative Committee on 1 April 2009, 32,000 for one MP, 8,000 dinars for others, including myself. Well, then a session of the Administrative Committee on 1 April 2009, 32,000 dinars for a number of MPs. Well, 42nd session of the Administrative Board, 32,000 dinars. Well, the 53rd session of the Committee, 3,000 dinars, 8,000 dinars, 16,000 dinars. Here are the ladies and gentlemen, two warnings of insults by the Serbian Parliament, I think in his history he did not hear, because the chairman said that – cattle, that – garbage, that – scum, here reminds me of Mr Sutanovac who wrote those words, were given two warnings. At a time when DS cheered and clothed this country, therefore, only in 2009 was it said as you see an extremely large amount of fines by the rule for no reason and no reason whatsoever. In fact, only for one political reason, which is to silence the opposition. Now, what SNS is interested in is one rhetorical question for our public, for our media. After all, it is also a question for former regime MPs. Imagine now, that the chairman who heads the National Assembly session now... . (Dear Sutanovac, from the scene: "Shooting with a shoe." I, as far as I know, had no one to throw a shoe at the chairman at the time, but drastic punishments were imposed. Now imagine that, imagine to me now, Mr. Sutanovac, but it's easy for you, you have a lot of money, a fine of two, three thousand dinars doesn't bother you very much. I'm talking about MPs living off their wages.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21619	Please, Mr. Martinovic, come back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21620	I mean, when you give a fine of 32,000 dinars to a man who lives on a parliamentary salary, it's a dragon penalty. When you tell someone who carries a 15,000-euro watch, it means nothing to him. I'm talking about ordinary MPs, ordinary people of flesh and blood. So, the question is -- what if, for example, you, Mr Arsenovic, or that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, or that Mr. Igor Becic, applying these same, allegedly European and democratic rules, are now starting to apply them to the MPs of the former regime, so that within two seconds of receiving the words, they will give them a warning of 8,000 dinars, 32,000 dinars, to drive them out of the hall, etc. It would have stood up, which would have cancered the people -- both short and tail, to say that the hateful, unnatural regime of Alexander Vukic was persecuting the MPs of the former regime. The media would get on their feet, get on the feet of an international human rights organization, everything would get on its feet if these rules that Mr. Babic and I and some other colleagues felt on their skin had now started to apply in 2015. So, you who are referring to European and democratic rules, to the rules of the European Parliament, you, while you were the government in this country, did everything to be disobeyed right here in the House of the National Assembly. You have introduced a rule, if I remember well, here are colleagues who were with me then MPs, then Mr. Arsenovic was introduced to an amazing rule. There are parts of the Rules of Procedure that can be injured and parts of the Rules of Procedure that cannot be harmed, and if you report for an injury to a member of the Rules of Procedure who, for example, Ms. Comic could not be injured, you risked getting a fine of 32,000 dinars, for example, or being expelled from the gym. It was supposed to happen here that in the presence of the Prime Minister, MPs of the former regime, the street and fair dictionaries attack the chairman to be given two warnings. This verbal aggression, this political aggression that they exercised over us while they were in power, they think they can still carry out today, by being the former minister, the famous "leader of Meridian Bank", today attacked, verbally, Mr. Marko Atlagic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21621	Mr. Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21622	Excuse me, Mr. Arsenovic, it's very important...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21623	No, I know it's important, but please to Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21624	Wait a minute, we will not allow lessons about Europe, about democracy, about human rights, about European standards to be held by those who persecuted the MPs while they were in power and who think they can do the same today when they are in opposition. I can't and the Serbian Progressive Party won't let them. What we want is to inform the citizens, let the media know that there's been an unrecorded incident today. A professor of the University of former finance minister who, in his own words, came to Serbia poor as a church mouse, and one morning he woke up on his aunt's couch with 11m euros, threatening that he should not mention him in the National Assembly, because it would be finished with him if he mentioned his criminal affairs. No one's afraid of you anymore in Serbia. Serbia is no longer a country of fear and with this practice of street threats or here in parliament you can freely stop. You are the past of this country and this people. The Serbian Progressive Party will do everything possible to stay in the past.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21625	I ask the MPs to keep the agenda maximum. Alexandra Jerkov, on what grounds? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: After the amendment. ) According to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would talk about the amendment the same way my colleague Martinovic did, so if you want me to do the same when I finish your speech, ask me to stick to the Rules of Procedure, because I think we should still have the same rights. It's very interesting that Mr. Martinovic remembers who the government was, and he doesn't remember what the opposition was like and what the Serbian Radical Party was at the time the opposition was when all these things happened. Mr. Martinovic forgot that at the moment when they were excluded from the hall, it was because they sang for hours and hours and hours and made it impossible for other MPs, Mr. Martinovic had not yet come to the enlightenment to cross over to the Serbian Progressive Party, so he distracted his colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party when they tried to speak the Russian anthem, which was strange enough to sing in one Assembly anthem of another country, that they were rolling on the ground, pulling microphones, that Mrs. Pop-Lazic had thrown her shoe at the chairman, that also his then party colleague in the previous meeting had been cursing the water of the Assembly, that we had been slaughtered from the pay phone, cursed, predicted our near death, cursed our children in ten generations, etc., so do not only remember the penalties. Let's remember what happened and what it looks like when Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Babic and several other MPs who are not all here now, were opposition. So don't let us look into what's happening now, because such an opposition, no one from the Democratic Party will ever be, and that is the fundamental difference between the Serbian Progressive Party and the Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21627	I owe you too, Mrs. Jerkov, to ask you, at least you should have started with the amendment, if nothing else, to perform, but fine. I still have some patience, so come on, I'll tolerate it after I've just started to chair. Please, let's get back to the agenda. All of you, please. The word has a National MP Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21628	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my esteemed colleague, Alexandra Jerkov, tried to defend the practice of the Democratic Party that it didn't belong to at the time. I do not want to ask her now when she had the enlightenment, but here is the 37th session of the Administrative Committee, held on 5 March 2009 -- a fine of 3,000 dinars, and it is said -- from the Serbian Radical Party and among them Tomislav Nikolic, who was not an MP of the Serbian Radical Party at the time, but the head of the "Forward Serbia" parliamentary group. Are you telling us now that radicals and advances sang the Russian Anthem together and that they earned, for example, that 5 March 2009 fine of 3,000 dinars? I really don't remember, do you fellow Babic remember, does anyone remember anyone rolling around in the National Assembly? I don't remember that. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place, how is it not? Maybe you, Mr. Schutanovac, were rolling, I wasn't. As for that famous shoe, a shoe was thrown at Mrs. Komic and that's true. Whether it was politically correct at that time, certainly not, but the shoe was thrown in the course of the debate on the Proposal for the Statute of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina for which the Constitutional Court is, you are Mr. Sutanovac today very nervous. Take it easy, let me explain. So, at the time of the debate on the draft statutes of the AP Vojvodina, which the Constitutional Court later said was approximately 80% unconstitutional in its provisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21629	Time, Mr. Martinovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21630	So everything you've said is not true, and you've drawn from the context a lot of things that are important, in order to look at all the indemnity of the former government in that period. I thank Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21631	We'll be done with the replicas. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. Mr. Grandmother, a replica? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Here is Mr. Sutanovac, and I will. I'll give them to Mr. Sutanovac, and I'll be done with the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21632	Apparently, the government can't discuss amendments, so it needs to come back, as Mr. Babic said, to the demons of the past and the permanent villa. Mr. Martinovic, perhaps not in this Assembly, but in that old assembly, your leader, then president of the SRS, was literally rolling on the floor. When the police took him out, he lays down on the floor and then carries him. Not all of Alexandera Jerkov's colleagues said what you were doing here. You came in pajamas to parliament, in spider pajamas drawn on your breasts, etc. What's actually the saddest thing is that you sort of justified, as your colleague said, what your colleague used to throw at the chairman's office in the summer shoe at the time. You know, it's like when a man beats a woman, so he says she knows what she's guilty of and what she's guilty of. In which parliament can someone throw a shoe and you talk about it being legitimate because after the Constitutional Court or not? So don't twist the truth. The fact is that we have verbal dialogue often, Parliament does so. The fact is that sometimes some words are not suitable, but not in a bad way, but nobody from the opposition physically came at you as you did at the chairman in parliament, nor did he pour cold water on you, nor did he throw shoes at you, nor did he sing as you speak, and you sang all together, and Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS, because it was about the Himna of the Russian Federation. Don't tell me Tomislav Nikolic didn't sing when he was warned. He may not have been in the SRS, but it's true he sang. It's not unknown, it's on "Yo-tay". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21633	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21634	I don't just know what Mr. Sutanovac sang when he was in Libya at Gaddafi, did the anthem of Libya or any anthem, and when he received some medals from the president of Libya at the time? This authority and the SNS are very keen to discuss amendments, but how can we discuss amendments when the amendment promoter said - I haven't read the law? What should we talk about and what amendments to talk about when the amendment promoter says - I haven't read the law, but because of, I don't know what, we've just given a copy of the page "delegated", "delegated", "delegated". As for parliament, all those who threw a shoe, and poured water, and ripped microphones, and rolled and did what they had to do in political history, such as on a good path to political history, precisely from these dark fairies, and those who, like Mr. Sutanovac, worship us with the expressions "stupid", "store", just like those who hold power with 6% support, which is all just not democratic, just like those who, as Bojan Pajtic was the head of the parliamentary group, organized some voting with some cards that were left on the revers. It's not about the decision, Mr. Sutanovac, it's about who embezzled the cards and who, according to this Assembly, as DS and Bojan Pajtic did as head of the DS Group... What can we call that? What's up with that? That SNS will never allow itself. And yes, you attacked us physically. You attacked Mr. Mark Atlagic physically. This morning, a former MP and former minister attacked a fellow MP. Isn't that an attack? The least I expected here was to make a fence out of it and condemn Mr. Djelic's move.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21635	Thank you. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. We end up with replicas. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: this is very important. ) Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 77, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. (Dear Sutanovac, from the place: Replica. I don't allow it anymore. On behalf of Glava II and Article 6 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Dragan Šutanovac, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) (Dejan Nikolic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21636	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs. Jerkov is advertising the Rules of Procedure, so I don't know if I should... Or should I? She can after me because there's been a call... She can be your daughter, Mr. Arsenovic, so she might get a chance. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to Article 6 of this Bill. Mr. Chairman of Arsenovic, I want here to complete our basic argument with an additional argument. Here we had several MPs, such as Mr Babic, for example, or Mr Martinovic, who felt that the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament should not be some sort of rapper for the assessment of our work and the work of the Government in terms of proposing legislation to our Assembly. Dear gentlemen, I am content of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament only as an additional inspiration to the MPs here, but, of course, the key Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly, in which 40 pages are dedicated to the legislative process. I am now acting as an argument for Article 6 where the amendment "is deleted", calling for Article 154 of our Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman, and it says: "The proposal can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session within not less than 15 days. “ We had two days to read here. Previously on Defense and the Army, I wonder how one MP can approach his work in the National Assembly responsibly, to read the laws, to interpret that he is proposing changes, when the theoretical chances are that he can't make it, gentlemen? Let us oppose this act of government and accept another amendment to be "expunged". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21637	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Alexandera, you want to advertise the Rules of Procedure before... ? You can't get the word. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place "I can't get a word"? ) According to the amendment, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21638	As a counter argument to everything the amendment promoter has made, with the agreement that, with all due respect to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the European Parliament, we cannot apply the documents other than those of the laws and other norms adopted by this National Assembly, we cannot apply any other documents that apply, some other rules, some other laws that apply to other institutions, so that this argument for the amendment of waste. As for this lack of time, we in these six laws have 204 members and 48 hours, as the amendment's promoter said, to prepare for the debate, and to discuss and propose amendments, and the government of the Republic of Serbia, the competent ministries and the NBS as the legislator of some laws, had twice as much time to declare much more amendments than members of the law. 260 amendments have been submitted for 24 hours or 204 members in 48 hours. Well, then who's there in favor? Well, who's been harassing and against whom? Against the government, we've had 48 hours for 204 members, or for 186 amendments? I'm not saying that all amendments are groundless. I am also referring to other amendments submitted by other parliamentary groups, which should be discussed, which have given some solutions, and not just "expunge". I think it is necessary to stand up against such harassment by the National Assembly, where the solution will only be offered "expect", without alternative, without knowledge, without response, without any further response, leaving 24 hours for 260 amendments, and complaining about 204 members and 48 hours. It doesn't make any sense with the amendment promoter. No political will. There's no knowledge. I'll remind you of something I've already said in the National Assembly. In my neighborhood, they say the worst people are the ones who complain and fight, and beat and complain. That's what the amendment promoter does. Fights with 186 amendments - deletes. The government has 24 hours to answer that, and they complain about much more time, and much less the members they were supposed to read, and I said he didn't read it, but he did give the amendments. How do we expect a quality debate? What a quality debate, except that as a value, I point out that the SNS today will patiently, from members to members, from amendments to amendments, but we will make the amendment promoter read all the laws, see in the end how much government and NBS, as proposings, are right and I believe that the amendment promoter will say – I was wrong to delete this and that in the day to vote, whether it will be today, tonight or tomorrow, vote for the proposed laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21639	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21640	I really don't understand, Mr. Chairman, what happened, so you don't understand that article 27 obliges you to lead the session the way the Rules of Procedure tells you to. I'll talk about the amendment, but you can't run a session as it comes to your mind, so just at one point decide that there's no more replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21641	Mrs. Jerkov, you have to listen to me. I'll give you time again. I'm not taking this session to my head, I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure. I begged you before that, and one side, and the other side, to return to the agenda. So at one point, I had to stop it, because it led to a debate on the work history of the congregation. Is that the subject of the debate? Do you understand me or not? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: No. That's your problem, then, if you don't understand. So I think I run the Parliament well, according to the Rules of Procedure. I may be too kind to all of you, but it's my weakness and we accept it, but I'm trying to put this congregation in order with regard to work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21642	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't understand the argument, and I don't think you yourself think what you're saying is right. I think what was previously said, as a reason for the amendment to be rejected, and its contents being deleted, is not in line with how the National Assembly should behave, nor is the government too generous to give MPs 48 hours to prepare, nor do you read carefully the amendments that MPs give. All of us who are committee presidents know very well that the MPs of the majority on these committees, when we are considering amendments, and I am just talking about what Mr. Babic says is too little 24 hours to decide with all the amendments tabled, and yet the committees are doing it, act exactly as the government said in its opinion, and that it is only looking at who is the amendment promoter, and not what the amendment says. For example, we had a debate on budget rebalancing, when the government tabled an amendment, through a committee, in which something was not well collected, so the material error was in the amendment, and MPs of the ruling majority and all the committees in charge accepted the amendment generously and respectively, although it was materially incorrect. If we were to start by the ruling majority MPs and the government seriously considering amendments coming from the opposition, perhaps what Mr Babic is saying, in addition to why the amendment should not be accepted, could be acceptable. However, we all know that this is not the case, that the only way to look at who the amendment is and how it works in the Assembly. The amendments contained itself are not "expunged" or something that should in itself be problematic and the reason for its refusal. With many other things forgotten in the past, it was forgotten that this Assembly in its assembly, when I was deputy head of the Parliamentary Group for European Serbia, had a voting day that lasted four or five days because of the SRS MPs, and among them Mr Babic, invested four or five thousand amendments of the contents "expunged".
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21643	Tell me, Mrs. Jerkov, what does this have to do with the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21644	It's because Mr. Babic is saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21645	Never mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21646	Now I'm going to explain to you what this has to do with it. As an argument to reject the amendment, it is stated that the amendment is pointless because it says "is deleted". The same MPs have submitted three or four thousand amendments to the "wipe" content on all the laws that have been passed in this assembly, in the entire term from 2008 to 2012, and only to be kept to account for what is said because not everything we say is irrelevant, and to read the amendments a little more carefully and then it will be seen that it is not all meaningless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21647	I expect you MPs, who are proposing amendments and who are criticising, to convince MPs why the amendment should be accepted or rejected. Every other story is off topic, off the agenda. I know this amendment is hard to defend, but that's your problem. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, the esteemed Mrs Udovici, the esteemed guest, with all the sympathy for you, Mr Arsenovic, I had to report to the Rules of Procedure, to advertise the violation of article 107, because you now said it was difficult for the Proposer to explain his amendment. Mr Arsenoviću, that means that you said that it is difficult for me to explain my amendment to article 6 which reads - is deleted. Mr Arsenovicu, I do not find it difficult to explain this amendment, and especially when it comes to the fact that the governor of the NBS has accepted two amendments that read - it is deleted. So, Mr Arsenović, if it is possible for the governor to accept two amendments, it is deleted, I don't see why you, as chairman here, would make it difficult for you to comment on the motion to explain its amendment, and given the contents of the Constitution and the law and the Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that the Government of our Republic, Mr Arsenovic, for his actions, is here, responding to the MPs in the National Assembly, and the Government is irresponsible when all proposals of the law are sent by urgent procedure, and I, as a MP, respond to this irresponsible practice of amendments, is deleted. Please now, Mr Arsenovicu, say that it is not difficult to understand the amendment promoter, which is said to be deleted, and that it is very possible to convince the MPs to accept that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21649	When I said this, I didn't mean you, but I thought, when the amendment is being defended, which is like this, and then it comes out of the subject, so for that MP who defends this amendment, when it comes out of the topic, I find it difficult to defend it, and that's why I said it. So I didn't mean anything by it. Would you like to make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21650	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, famous political geniuses Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic have submitted an amendment to Article 6. Watch it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21651	Mr. Martinovic, just one remark. Don't add those superlatives, they're all MPs here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21652	That's affirmative. Here's the thing. We spent about 20 minutes here talking about the amendment to article 6 submitted by Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Gentlemen of Parliament, you who have the material, here it is, so that there is no confusion – the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, 30 January 2015, Belgrade, President of the National Assembly: "According to Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Deposit Insurance Act, are subject to amendments", and Amendment 1, Amendment 2, etc., etc., until Amendment 25. We are now on Amendment number 6, which refers to Article 6. The amendment to Article 6 is written in such a way that the name of Chapter 2 and Article 6 is deleted and there is no explanation. There is no explanation, except for Mr Pavicevic's oral explanation at the National Assembly session. But in writing, there is no explanation. This is the best evidence that MPs of the former regime deceive citizens of the Republic of Serbia, convincing them to submit some allegedly meaningful amendments to the text of the bill, which they write by performing a rather simple operation in the "Ward" called the "kopi-paiste". But you seem to have forgotten that "past" here, so you left out the explanation. Otherwise, so there's no confusion, you want me to read you your explanation? Amendment 3 - This amendment was submitted in order to bring the amendment text into line with Article 1 concerning the defined objective. The reasons for the amendment 8 - this amendment has been tabled in order to align the text of the amendment to Article 1 with regard to the defined objective. You want to go to Amendment 25? Explanatory - this amendment has been submitted in order to bring the text of the amendment to Article 1 in relation to the defined objective.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21653	Please, when we get to those amendments. Leave it now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21654	What's the point here? What's the political message here? The political message is – I'm done, I don't know what I'm going to do, and then I submit pointless amendments, some of which don't even have an explanation in writing. So much for the qualification and learning of MPs who submit amendments and who teach us lessons in respect of the Rules of Procedure. One more thing to say, for the sake of the public, and, after all, as you say to Mr. Arsenovic, and for the sake of history. Here is Mr. Petar Petrovic, my colleague from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. At one of the previous meetings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Mr. Pera Petrovic, somewhat provoked by such amendments, which for the purpose of obvious political obstruction, asked that these amendments be rejected at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, not to be debated at all and not to be voted on. I, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, opposed my distinguished colleague Petrovic and said that amendments are fundamentally illogical, that they are pointless, that they have an obstructive character, but that for reasons of political correctness, they should be considered and voted on. What I'm about to say is, it's a reminder of what the former regime was doing. Here were the words that thousands and thousands of amendments were submitted in due time. What did the former regime do and we don't? You check it out. It never lasted four or five days, you made that up. And you make sure that what I'm about to say is true. In the eighth session of the National Assembly, the president of the Legislative Committee was Mr. Vlatko Ratkovic. That's when the unique methodological rules for making regulations were laid down. At that time, the government in the Republic of Serbia, the majority of the National Assembly, came to the senses – so they did not refuse, rejected all amendments that had identical texts in disposition and identical reasoning and were not discussed at all, or voted on. And that's true. And you check in the National Assembly's stenographic notes whether I'm telling the truth or not. If I had now listened to my distinguished colleague Petrovic and applied this practice to the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and if we had transferred this practice here to the National Assembly, to the plenary session, then the NGOs would again stand up, "women in black", the humanitarian rights funds, ask God who doesn't, to say that the hateful, despotical, dictatorial regime of Alexander Vukic is choking the rights of the MPs of the former regime and not allowing them to submit amendments that have an identical text, an identical explanation, and some are even without an explanation. If any of us had done so from the then opposition in the period from 2008 to 2012, no matter what parliamentary group we belonged to, our fate would have been very simple. Our fate was known – our amendments were not discussed at all, they were not voted on and there was no need to vote for three or four or five days. Absolutely no amendments were discussed in the plenary session of the National Assembly, nor were these amendments voted. Now, if we were to re-introduce that practice that you gentlemen have established, I don't know if Serbia would be exposed again to an unprecedented heifer to which it is otherwise exposed these days and by some domestic and international political factors? So, please, don't just lecture us on democracy, respect for procedures, how amendments are written, how amendments are explained, what the government needs and what the government doesn't need to do. I haven't heard the stupidest thing in my life, I haven't had time to read the law, but I've had time to write 186 amendments. It really takes a great adventure spirit, so have the courage to say something like that. Here, these are your amendments - deleted, identical text, identical explanation, some without explanation. Now we need to spend hours and hours talking about something that doesn't make any sense. You yourself, Mr Pavicevic, know that there is no point, because you are constantly laughing and think that you will now do some political damage to us from the SNS, which we are sitting in parliamentary benches or colleagues from the government, by making us talk about amendments that are not only legal and politically pointless, which are directly directed against Serbian citizens, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed that this law would never happen to us again, whatever authority it is in Serbia, or "Vojvodina Development Bank", or "Agrobank", or any other financial institution that ultimately cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These bills did not come for payment of either DS or SDS, as they are already called, neither Boris Tadic nor Bojan Pajtic, came for payment of Serbian citizens. That's the essence of this bill, that's the essence of SNS policy. We want this bill to prevent such a thing, to enable the NBS, to enable the Deposit Insurance Agency, to see the real financial situation in banks and other financial institutions, so that these institutions respond in time, to warn citizens, to warn economic operators, that there is a danger to their deposits. I repeat once again, where fortunately, during your regime, such a law was valid, the Republic of Serbia would now not be paying millions and millions of euros from the budget, due to the damage policy implemented by the former regime. (Alexandra Jerkov, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21655	The word has a national MP, Branka Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21656	Thank you. Dear President, guests from the government, honourable MPs, I want to talk about the amendment to Article 6 but I am quite sure that in my presentation I will repeat myself with the previous MPs, previous speakers, my MP groups, the group I belong to, simply for the reason that you, the chairman, have explained, because there are no arguments about the amendment, so that we, in our answers in some way, repeat ourselves. Given that none of the MPs of other MPs have made any other constructive proposal on this member of the bill, except for the MPs of Mr Pavicevic and Mr Zivkovic, I propose to the National Assembly that this amendment also in the Voting Day be rejected. The explanation is quite clear. In the amendment, not only has there been no explanation, as the previous speakers have explained, but I simply do not see the motion for this law to be completed by this Member of the Law to amend, to make a contribution to this legislative work. There is no desire to participate in this parliamentary work in the way it should behave in the National Assembly. In this way, the amendment promoter, in my opinion, receives only media attention. I can't help but look back at the motions and I can't agree with the part where he explained that the objective of this sea is the amendments he proposes, and they're a total of 186, that our participation in the debate is the study of the bill and so on, which is on the agenda. Why? Because the amendment promoter himself admitted that he did not read the draft laws that are on the agenda today, which he normally put the amendments on. From the behaviour of the amendment promoter, I appreciate that he does not work in the interests of the people, the voters he called upon, who chose him to this public office, but simply deceives the very public by coming unprepared to the meetings of the Assembly. Since it has been experienced to him so far that the amendments to the contents - are deleted, are not passed in the voting day, i.e. they do not receive the parliamentary majority, I think that the degree of deception of public opinion, or peoples, is even greater. I think the whole work of the promoters of this and all the other amendments, it comes down to erasing – copy traps, and I sincerely hope that in the next regular parliamentary elections the people will learn this – is deleted, so the names of these MPs, or political organisations that they belong to will simply be deleted from the electoral lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21657	Alexander Jerkov, do you want the amendment? (Alexandra Jerkov, from town: Replica? You have no right to a replica. Gordana Komic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21658	Thank you. I wanted to try to contribute the amendment debate to Article 6, but we have now heard that this amendment has no justification. My question to you is -- how come in the reports of the Committee on Constitutional and Finance and the budget? No one's read the amendments. Why did he go through a search in detail? How is it in search of details of amendments that are incomplete? Either he has an explanation, so he can be there, or there's no explanation and he can't be in the search. Please make sure we're discussing an amendment that can't be searched if it's true that it's incomplete? If not, then I ask you to have measures when we accuse the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Budget and Finance of not doing their job and that in their report, which has been forwarded to all MPs, they have sent us an amendment that has no explanation. He can't do both. As much passion as we put in, the facts are insensitive to passion. For this reason, I ask you to check this out with the Assembly's service, because I will not believe that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Finance, above all because of trust in the Service of the Assembly, have passed an amendment that should not appear in the search of the particulars in the tide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21659	I can't determine right now. I'm asking the professional service to check if there was an explanation for the amendment, so by mistake, let me say, it was left out in this part that was. I think in that sense you're right and we'll check and meet the Assembly about this. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21660	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, respected Mrs Udovočki and the Honored Guests, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to Article 7 of this Deposit Insurance Act because we felt that our duties, gentlemen of honor, were to fight for the preservation of the legal order and parliamentaryism in our country. I've come here as a kind of remark or criticism for this approach that applies to Article 7 as well, that it's pointless, that it's pointless to submit this kind of amendment. Mr. Martinovic also said irresponsiblely. Then, Mr. Chairman, I ask myself, Mr. Arsenovic, if this is all meaningless, meaningless, if it is irresponsible, then why have the SNS been participating for 160 minutes in the debate on something that is meaningless, meaningless and irresponsible? I think it's appropriate, gentlemen, to discuss every member of every bill. So far, we have discussed a total of eight amendments. For those eight amendments, Mr. Arsenovicu, I could use a maximum of 16 minutes, and what about that difference up to 160 minutes? In addition to the DS MPs, from the Social Democratic Party, the most time spent here was spent by SNS MPs. So why do the MPs of the Progressive Party participate in something that themselves marks senseless, immaterial and irresponsible? These are therefore MPs, who claim to be irresponsible, that what they do is pointless and immaterial. Indeed, Mr Arsenović, I cannot understand this kind of argument, and I will fight for the adoption of every amendment – it is deleted, not just the two who accepted Governor Tabakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21661	Thank you. Mr. Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21662	Mr. Chairman, the SNS and the SNS parliamentary group have 134 MPs. That's why, and most of all, it's time to discuss it. By the way, we do not have to ask Mr Pavicevic that time – what are we going to do with that time. I'm sure we won't ask Mr. Pavicevic because Mr. Pavicev didn't give us that time. That time gave us citizens of RS in the democratic and fair elections held in March 2014. That it is without purpose, Mr. Chairman, I agree with all my fellow MPs, I will show you on just one case of this particular article. See Article 7(4), which is proposed to be deleted, or proposed to be different, to be contrary to what the promoter predicted. I will read to you as the amendmentr wanted this Article 7th item 4 to read – the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund are not invested in a way that reduces risk. The legislator predicted that they invest in a way that reduces the risk. Mr. Pavicevic wants a higher risk. To maintain the liquidity of this fund, according to Mr Pavicevic's solution – to maintain the liquidity of this fund. Look, he wants a bigger risk, and he wants the liquidity of the Deposit Insurance Fund. What is crucial and crucial, the legislator predicted that appropriate revenues would be realised. After Mr Pavicevic's solution – it is deleted, there is no income.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21663	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21664	Of course, such amendments are foreseen, where the risk increases, where there is no liquidity of the fund and where income is not realised, of course against reason, of course against the state and of course against the citizens of the RS and of course the SNS will use its time and will not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21665	The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be rejected, so the amendment to Article 7 of the proposed law, which reads differently than "expunged". What also bothers me, Mr. Chairman, is the explanation of this amendment, which, I would say, is extremely impeccable and I will read it – this amendment has been submitted to bring the amendment to Article 1 in line with the defined objective. Of course, it's not about wanting to fix this legal solution either, nor is it about measuring it, there's no fundamental grudges, there's no fundamental objections, there's no critical criticism. And why isn't there? Because the Proposer of these amendments is not interested. They do not care whether or not the positive effects of this law will be, they are not interested, as they are not interested in fiscal consolidation or financial stability or the economic recovery of our country. So I ask you and I call upon all MPs to refuse both this and all the subsequent amendments in the text "expect". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21667	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21668	Please, Mr. Chairman, calm down this Bogdanovic, after he throws it to me, secure me order in the O.R. May I, Mr. Chairman? The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I am against this amendment for a reason, indeed, which makes no sense and is not meaningful. Why and why does the promoter say that we stand up for each other and take the time? It is precisely because we are telling Serbian citizens how pointless the amendments are "expunged". Why does the promoter, specifically Mr. Pavicevic, suggest that? In my opinion, because he wants to keep the old state of affairs, where there was no right, no justice, no work, no order, no civil liberties, he wants to remain the old state of affairs in which the former federal minister, and his party president, illegally, took subsidies from this budget, the Republic of Serbia's budget, 530,000 euros, ladies and gentlemen, and damaged the budget, the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is why we're only talking, just so he can paralyze the vine on the grass. You will no longer erase these amendments, but the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they have deleted the party whose list you are on. I hope they wiped it out and sent it to the political past. This set of laws aims to reform the financial sector for the purpose of modernising Serbia. In the end, there is no force that will stop the reforms that are being implemented in this country, because you, gentlemen of the former regime, have destroyed our past, our present, our children's future. If you'd just stayed in power for another year, they would have destroyed our roots. The Serbian Progressive Party will not allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21669	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a moment, to inform you about this amendment and before to Article 6. The promoter has submitted an amendment, and it only stands in reason - an explanation and no text. I'm looking at the original amendment. However, I have also received information from the professional service that if this amendment has passed the Legislative Committee, it is considered regular. That's what I can tell you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, according to this amendment, we are still on Article 7. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21670	Thank you, Your Honor. Our people have a wonderful proverb – a vain pop and goats cross. That's exactly what this is. It's a folk proverb, it's nothing ugly. We are making for the first time a law that provides our systemic deposits, namely a law that will in some way ensure the financial stability of this country. This is even in the explanation of why this is done, why the principle so far was bad, because we had problems with Agrobank and with Universal Bank and with many others. Now someone's suggesting we delete all of this. All right, but then you're obliged to keep citizens, especially when we move on to the members of the 8th and 9th and the other members, that you work for the benefit of the banks and that you want to keep the robbery system that ruled here and the greening. That's what you have to tell the citizens, that you don't want the financial stability of this country. Why are you asking to delete article 7? There is no reason, except to get minutes here and spend valuable time on Serbian citizens, but it's good to see what's really going on here. Asking for this to be erased is extremely irresponsible, asking for this to be erased is a desire to actually meet the citizens and the state at all, to completely rob and suck the money out of here, from this country. You should be ashamed of yourself because you're looking for something like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21671	The 7th amendment includes Parliamentarian Dragan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21672	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, dear fellow MPs, this is probably my first amendment, which is not an amendment to "expunge" on the deposit insurance bill. Article 7, one of the most important members of this law, I will use the time of the parliamentary group, I would read Article 7, which is very important: "The Agency is obliged to keep the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund in a special deposit account open at NBS. The Agency shall, on the basis of the decision of the Management Board, invest in debt securities issued by the Republic of Serbia or the NBS, and this key third paragraph: ‘On the basis of the decision of the Management Board of the Agency and of the contract concluded with the Agency and by the order of the Agency, the NBS shall, on its behalf, and, for the Agency's account, invest in foreign securities or deposit with foreign banks, in accordance with the foreign reserve management policy’. I believe that the word "exchange reserve management policy" should be replaced to insert the word strategy instead of the word "political". Why is this important, Honorable Chairman? I would ask all respected colleagues, probably each of us once wondered how the country's foreign reserves, which are money, the money of all of us, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are being held, in which they are being placed. It seems, frankly, very illogical and I would like to ask the Honorable Minister, who used to be governor of the NBS, because once you enter the NBS site, you can see that foreign reserves are kept in line with the strategy. I really don't understand how the proposal for this law came to mean "political". Look, you can change politics every day, and it was very illogical for me that if you have to place the most valuable thing this country has, and these are foreign reserves, according to the policy that you can change every day, it doesn't seem logical to me. I would therefore ask the Honorable Madam Minister to reconsider my amendment and to correct, in this third paragraph of Article 7 of the word "in line with foreign reserve management policy" and replace the word "political" with a strategy, because the strategy is adopted by the NBS, or by the Board of Governors of the NBS. Of course it is approved by the governor, the consent probably gives, that is, by this law, all of this is now followed by the finance minister, who is obliged to act according to the law and I believe that the strategy can also be for a certain period of time and cannot be changed according to the daily policy. That is the key thing that makes me think that this amendment of mine should be supported and, of course, it will bring another greater stability and predictability in the placement of the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21673	Thank you. The word has a minister, Cory Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21674	Just once again to point out that this amendment is being rejected, and the argument is very clear. The word cannot be put: “strategic” where something is done in accordance with the strategic guidelines given to manage foreign reserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21675	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21676	Chairman, I'm truly sorry, I won't be long, and I don't want to say anything to a respectable minister, but she's just wrong. Please, these are very serious things. I'm sorry that she's not the governor of the National Bank here, I understand she has obligations today, but I would once again ask fellow MPs to consider this topic and if we can do it together, and we can do it in the voting day, if the government's representative doesn't want to accept this amendment at the session itself, to correct this, because this is very important. I must say, like all MPs, I am someone who has made more amendments to this law and I have worked very carefully for this period of time to read this law. I never put up with the amendments -- it's deleted, it's completely clear amendments. Here anyone who reads this text more carefully could see the illogicality. The illogicalness is that you place the country's foreign reserves, frankly, the most valuable thing we have, it says - in line with politics. So this is where a certain other word could be found that would be, to be honest, more meaningful than politics. We run politics here, we can also talk as party representatives about politics of various kinds, but to say that with policy you will manage foreign reserves, it really doesn't seem logical. I no longer address the honourable minister, she made her point, but I would only ask the MPs to support this amendment in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21677	The word has a minister, Cory Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21678	Now that you've explained it for the second time, I understand better the essence of your objection. This is one problem that we have today with terminology that is quite common in Serbian, in which it is difficult to translate a term that is very fundamental in international practice. Politics has two meanings and the problem is that the use of the word "political" in a different meaning, when it actually means guidelines in the work of the public service, so to translate it now spontaneously. It makes sense to us, and it's common only in plural. When you say "public policies", then we all know that we're not talking about politics in terms of daily policy, but we're going to have to make the usual use until a second term is found, and the strategy is on a higher level. The strategy is implemented through policies. So we need to get used to terminology, and I can tell you that my ministry is thinking about it and we need to sort something out, because we have a serious problem in establishing a new system, an improved, improved system of legislative process, where there should be a need to use policy-making on something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21679	Thank you. The names of Chapter III and Article 8 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsenovic, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovic and the Honored Our Guests today at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are three things I wish to say for the sake of our amendment to Article 8. It's a bill of law. First, we have also submitted this amendment because we want to fight for the preservation and dignity of the Assembly and legal order and parliamentaryism in our Republic. Second thing, gentlemen, I support what Mr. Babic said and what Mr. Djukanovic said and I think that's okay, of course. It is the right of SNS MPs to participate in this debate. I never wanted to run that time or try to do it. I was just trying to point out one illogicality, that if something is said to be meaningless, meaningless, and then it's said - I'm going to participate in it, just to explain it a little bit. But of course it's right and no one can touch that right. I support the idea of SNS and Mr Babic's MPs, to use all the time they have on the amendment for today's debate. The third thing, gentlemen, is that I do not agree with the proposal made by Mrs Tomic and Mr Babic, that until we reach some European Parliament standards, we may not need to read the laws as carefully as read in the European Parliament. Dear gentlemen, I believe it is our duty, but we already have the conditions for all the bill's proposals to be dealt with in one responsible way. Nothing prevents us, gentlemen, from using those standards that are set out in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, but also in our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at a 100% rate here, honourable Members of the People's Parliament. I think it can only be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21681	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21682	Madam President, Mr Pavicevic is a little behind in time and thus violates the Rules of Procedure. You know, if we're talking about an amendment to Article 8, and we're using the argument for Article 7, then it's a delay in time. How can someone who's fat in the past, and we're talking about an amendment to article 7, finish the debate, use the argument for Article 8 as well? I see Mr. Pavicevic has a good time, and I'm happy about it. I'm glad for the smile on my face. We also see colleagues and colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group who are also having fun because they are doing their job and are very patient in all this. I hope that Mr Pavicevic, unlike all the previous times when he bombed us on such unnecessary, unprofessional, pointless amendments, will at least stay at the vote to vote for such amendments, because I believe that if he does not remain to vote for his amendments, he still manages to read these laws at that time, even though he indirectly supported such legislative proposals proposed by the government, that is, the National Bank of Serbia. On the other hand, I can't accept the call, not because it's not a good call, it's a good call, but I can't accept it because it comes from a man who said he didn't read the laws, handed over the amendments, and invited us to read them three or four times. Here, I read them a second time. The first time there was a principle debate, and the second time now, a member per member, unlike the amendment promoter who has not read it once. I believe that at some point, he may even give up this way of reading the amendment. Therefore, an invitation for Mr Pavicevic to stay in the O.R. and vote for his amendments. Otherwise, he gave up on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21683	The word is from Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21684	Thank you, Your Honor. I am reporting and I am using the time to report on the amendment, to invite my colleague Pavicevic to withdraw the rest of the amendment. Of course, not verbally, but in writing, as ordered by the Assembly of Procedures. The explanation of colleagues Pavicevic and his colleagues for submitting this number of amendments is because they did not have time to prepare and defend such laws and have therefore submitted 186 amendments. I hope and believe that my colleague Pavicevic will accept my suggestion and call and will hand her over for the withdrawal of the amendment. We know that we women fight for gender equality, but we should never forget, losing that one of the most beautiful qualities that adorns a woman, which is to be the gentlest sex and one of the most beautiful qualities of a man is to be a gentleman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21685	The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21686	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovici, the esteemed guests, I very much appreciate Mrs. Vlahovic. I also appreciate the invitation Mrs Vlahovic has now made here, proposing that I withdraw the amendments in writing on these six remaining draft laws. Indeed, by estimating this proposal and by the way, Mrs. Vlahovic, I want to say one thing here about that call. I, honored gentlemen, would be able to consider this invitation, and I would like to think about this idea, but it is necessary, I think here, to ensure one thing, as the previous thing, in order to think about it, and that previous thing, gentlemen, concerns the next. As Mrs Udovicski, on behalf of the Serbian Government, told us here – the government was wrong to approach this debate on these draft laws in the National Assembly, if Mrs Tabakovic would have said she had made a mistake again, since she had already made the same mistake in December, and said – I was wrong to treat the National Assembly and People's MPs in this way, and Mrs Vlahovic and myself, and if Mr Babic had stood up and said so – and I was wrong to defend this approach of the Government and the access of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs Vlahovic, please, honourable president, that Mrs Vlahovic would have heard, I would have considered and accepted this call. Just to make sure this is a previous thing because it's about the relationship between institutions, and I think it's important to us here, and I hope you're also interpreting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21687	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21688	An esteemed colleague would have to know that, by bonton, when a lady makes an offer, there's never a conditional answer. So what he's done now is really an indication that he's not a gentleman. But regardless, I am reporting precisely for this amendment to show the citizens of Serbia what the gentlemen require and it is very important that the citizens know. Because every day we listen to your concerns about people who are allegedly in charge of Swiss francs, I don't know what, you're asking us to wipe out the bank's obligations. I'm very glad that this is what you say that dear citizens know, here, these are the people who demand that we actually allow the banks here to continue to rob the citizens, the way they used to do it, the clean greening. According to that, it's nice that the citizens know. With this amendment, you are asking us to actually work for the benefit of banks, not for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of the state. It's something that's terrible, and the citizens are obliged to know it and it's nice that this is how you present it to them through your amendments. Dear citizens, just so you know, someone wants to continue your robbery and that's, unfortunately, someone on the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21689	Thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21690	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honorable Guests, once again, esteeming this proposal and the invitation of Ms Vlahovic's Parliament, and in awaiting the reaction of both the Government and the National Bank and Mr Babic, I now have to approach the interpretation of our amendment to Article 9 and, of course, with the gratitude of Mr Djukanovic for one lesson in bonton and nice and polite behaviour, I must now focus on explaining our amendment to Article 9. Amendment to Article 9, gentlemen, reads - is deleted. It is very important for me to hear this too, Mr Babic, and Mrs Mrdakovic, and Mrs Vlahovic, and Mr Djukanovic, we have submitted this amendment because we believe it is necessary to protect the dignity of the National Assembly and our parliamentaryism. We have no objection here to the work of the President of the National Assembly, because it acted by procedure, but we have an objection to the acceptance of the MPs, on a proposal that raises the dignity of the National Assembly and Parliamentism. Dear gentlemen, our approach to dignity and legal order and parliamentaryism, as a contrast, we get the following terms, respected gentlemen: hatred, ignorance, says - this Pavicevic and doesn't know what to do with himself, so the vain pop is mentioned, well shame, so intricacy. Dear gentlemen, wait, is it possible for us to use these terms as an argument, against the arguments offered by us, regarding respect for the dignity of the National Assembly, our parliamentaryism and the basic principles and principles of our constitutional system, gentlemen. I'm just asking that we focus on principles and principles, not on these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21691	Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21692	Madam President, I can think about it and I will be happy to consider Mr Pavicevic's proposal, but with some conditions, similar conditions set by Mr Pavicevic. I will consider Mr. Pavicevic's request, I will also invite Mrs. Udovicki to consider if Mr. Pavicevic now and here, without any conditions, wishes to apologize for the criminal privatisation of Beopetrol, where the leader of his party, Zoran Zivkovic, participated, if Mr. Pavicevic here now explicitly gives us an apology for the acquisition of 50 million dinars for the non-existent vineyards of his party, Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, where neither grapes nor vineyards nor anything, but from the state of 50 million dinars. I can think about Mr Pavicevic's demands if he stands up here now and publicly apologizes for the thousands of people who were in 2003, who were then prime minister, using some condition that was difficult for our country, the occasion was even scarier, but where he was detained, held in custody, and then the budget and citizens of the Republic of Serbia were paid for the indiscretion of then-Prime Minister Zivkovic, where thousands and thousands of people were illegally detained, arrested and imprisoned, and afterwards, they were paid huge financial funds for it. If Mr Pavicevic now stands up and apologizes publicly for all these things, and I have many, two minutes is little to suggest all the bad things that Mr Zivkovic and the former regime have done in his political activity, I will be happy to consider Mr Pavicevic's demands.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21693	Vladimir Djukanovic first called.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21694	Since an esteemed fellow applicant of the amendment said that it protects the reputation of this parliament and translated into Serbian, it would mean that you are protecting the reputation of citizens, since this is the citizen's representative first, then you would, if you were really protecting the reputation of this Parliament, vote for this law, because this law protects citizens, and by not wanting to vote for this, you would already want to delete this, you are protecting banks. It's the essence of all this. You're in violation of the reputation of citizens and you're laughing at them in the face of these amendments. Because you're protecting banks and protecting what's been towards the citizens so far. So, of course, something like this can't be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21695	Dr. Vladimir Orlic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21696	Thank you, Madam President. I'll do it very briefly, according to the amendment itself. Certainly, I join the estimates that this amendment should also be rejected, for all the reasons we heard today when it comes to this way of conjecturing amendments, these consequences that the amendments have, or do not have, and the quality they possess, or that they lack. I wouldn't take your time any more in that sense. Today, we were able to look back on some good folk wisdom. I'm certainly not answering, as no one on this side of the hall with a desire to participate in something that we find unreasonable as it seems today. We certainly do it because we want to have a positive impact on the amendment's proposing that we can awaken a certain consciousness, however, we meet all the time with what we would, I think that colleague Markovic often quoted that people's mentality – which seems to not correct the time, at least for now. But, slowly, I believe we'll get to that good common language. In the meantime, on the subject of the quality of counterarguments heard here today, I think the amendment's proposings have expressed doubts about the good content and good intentions of the arguments that we use on this side. Another people's wisdom to which I would call myself – according to the “sacred” and the troupe. So, when you're not using anything as an argument, I don't think there's any reason that what you're criticizing is anything that's responsible, unfortunately, I apologize for nothing is more than enough. As for the various proposals put forward today in this room, I think one is very good, and I think we could all accept it together without any preconditions, it comes from the fact that it's not just a criticism, I'm going to commend the amendment promoter in one thing, that he's shown a desire to fight for all 180 and some amendments to the end. That would be very good, if it refers to what counterpart Babic normally noted. If that combat is shown through the presence of the day to vote. If there are differences compared to the current practice of the amendment promoters, that hundreds of amendments here provide themselves with a large number of hours to perform in front of TV cameras, then they seem to be sick and tired of sitting in voting day and listening to hours of just reading the amendments and putting something to the vote. It might not be until the end seriously, but for a shade more serious and fairer, I would say, that they change that practice, so let's say they show up in the voting day, and really by voting in full duration, they stand behind what they did themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21697	The word has a folk MP, Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21698	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. What can I say? I could have answered any amendment, or any member. Why am I picking up right now? I can't say that since this morning when this debate began, I've received a few text messages from citizens following this assembly. Each of them was mostly with a question – aman, what do they delete so much? My answer would be – here, fellow Members of Parliament, respected citizens, in a keen desire to erase everything that has been done in the past 10, 12 years, I guess it remains a habit, so it should be said - is deleted and some of the proposed members of the amendments to the law. I cannot understand that the applicant of the amendment, and we have been listening to this abuse of the Rules of Procedure for a long time, abuse of this high home, abuse, before all time and money of the citizens and says, "Article 9 is deleted." A colleague who submits the amendment gets up and talks about everything without reading Article 9, explains why he considers it necessary to delete from member to member, from amendment to amendment. Again, honored gentlemen who have asked, what have they been erasing so much, I can only say in my desire to erase all that has been done in previous years, such amendments and write. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21699	Thank you. The word is Milorad Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21700	Dear Presidents, a respected ministerial officer, fellow MPs and MPs, with no argument as to why a member of the Bill's amendment is asked to be deleted and so almost two hundred times. Without a proposal on what kind of change of law should be, we come to the conclusion that it is nothing else, but the desire to remain on the path of collapse and sinking, on the way to total economic destruction and further destruction of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, which would inevitably lead to a collapse of the whole society in general, because their ideology, the people of the Republic of Serbia must know, is the worse Serbia, the better for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21701	Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a People's Messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21702	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly Mrs Gojkovic, Mrs Udovicski and the Honored Guests, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I believe that the articles of the 10th should be deleted for one basic reason which we have stated in an explanation for the amendment to Article 1 of this Bill, but I would, as is the order in our National Assembly, try to supplement that argument with an additional argument. The additional argument concerns now and the calls that come to me in this National Assembly, in my office below, Ivana is answering, citizens are calling, via Twitter are also ordering, say – well done, MP Vladimira Pavicevic, says our common interests are being defended by one responsible MP in the National Assembly. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly how then I should not act very inspired and with one energy in our National Assembly when it is obvious that citizens recognize now one effort, dedication and effort to preserve dignity in our National Assembly so that the best laws are adopted here. I have one more thing I'd like to mention here. The citizens also tell me, they write to me here and via Twitter, so it would be best if here and Mrs. Udovicki, and Mrs. Tabakovic, and I buy Mr. Babic a wiper. It says, it makes it easier to erase the bad texts, the poor content of the members of the bill. Just to point out, I gave the books here and presidents speak to Jovan Skerlic, Mr. Gasic a fine book published in 2014 "Top, soldier and memory", and it looks like I will have to prepare a few tires to erase some ministers and governors of the NBS, as well as to Mr. Babic, respected MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21703	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21704	I have great respect for RTS. RTS is a public service. I really didn't know that another program was getting humorous, because a colleague just told us a joke about this massive support he's getting. But, aside from the joke, I would like to invite Mrs. President in this way Mr. Pavicevic, the amendment promoter to finally start doing his job, and if he has already proposed to delete Article 10 instead of those tires, funnyly, to explain to us why he thinks the bank should not pay the initial premium, he should not pay a regular premium and that the bank should not pay an extraordinary premium. Why, Mr. Pavicevic? Give us an explanation why banks don't need to pay initial, regular and extraordinary premiums. What's the reason for that? Come on, let's start talking about the law. Come on, let's talk about the amendments, essentially. Do you know what the bank's initial premium is? Here, I urge Mr Pavicevic to be as expert, valuable, responsible as he represents himself, let us know what is the initial premium of the bank you propose to delete. Why should a regular premium be deleted? What makes you suggest the bank shouldn't pay an extraordinary premium? Here, Mr. Pavicevic, is a very direct question. I expect a very direct answer, and then, based on your answer, I'm going to say whether or not we're going to vote for such an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21705	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić and Dragan Sutanovac. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21706	The amendment we have made together concerns Article 10, which defines that the bank is obliged to pay the initial premium, the regular premium and the extraordinary premium. In the following members, Articles 11 and 12 define both the initial and the regular and extraordinary premium. Our amendment suggests that a regular premium, which is otherwise defined to be paid three months and called a three-month premium. The statements are laid down by law. The start of payment is 45 days, and in Article 12, paragraph 3 says it is paid three months. It's not just the insistence on language change, but we simply consider it a simpler and more elegant solution that something that is a regular premium is exclusively three months, that is called in the law, does not change anything in essence and simply explains that it would avoid the formulations of an explanation after Article 12, what is regular, what is extraordinary, and what is the initial premium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21707	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21708	Thank you. Very short. So I would suggest that the amendment should not, however, be adopted, namely to retain the solution proposed by the legislator. The term is regular, it may be pure personal taste, but it certainly sounds better to me. We have now heard that if the amendment were to be adopted, the definitions would not actually be avoided, which is not proposed by the amendment promoter, or all these definitions remain only one term to be changed to another. I would ask you to perhaps comment on the response that we received from the Government, whether this is how the introduction of the term has some perhaps deeper, better meaning, and to all of that I would just add that some structures that would be quite raving, a type that in one of the next members we have that is a three-month premium, that the billing and charges are three-monthly. This way we avoid it if we actually call it regular, if we have an emergency, I think it's perfectly in place to have a regular one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21709	The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21710	I think that the argument given by the Government is more than clear that it is about harmonising with the terminology used in the EU directive and therefore there is no reason for us to stay on this topic any longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21711	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the esteemed Mrs. Udovici, the esteemed guests, here, first of all, to read here the contents of Article 11 for which we propose to delete. The Constitution of the 2nd, in fact, writes something Mr. Babic was very interested in earlier, which is the question of the initial premium. In Section 2, the initial premium is 0.3% of the bank's minimum founding capital, gentlemen. That is why I have respected the presidents, although I have noticed that you have been willing to give me the right to reply, I have waited for my regular notification under the amendment that Mr Babic will receive an answer to this question with three questions to Mr Babic now, the Honored President of the National Assembly, if that is okay to say. First, here I can't go directly, so through you, can Mr. Babic answer my question, if the Serbian government is unable to manage, gentlemen, why can't Mr. Babic in this National Assembly once oppose such a government? The second question, if the Government, gentlemen, is here every time the remnants of our parliamentaryism, why does Mr. Babic follow the will of the poor government, not the people's will, gentlemen? The third question, why does Mr. Babic defend the government by saying, well, you know, the government didn't have much time to prepare an explanation for the refusal of the amendments, and not defends the MPs and the National Assembly from a difficult attack by the executive authority on the legislative body? Well, we're here reading everything, all the bill, and the resolution minister comes once in a while and I don't know how long to defend his bill. The weight of the work is different, gentlemen, and I expect answers to all three questions from President Gojkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21713	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21714	I would like to thank Madam President for these questions and for the opportunity to make a point. The people's will is expressed, where, if not at the polls.? In the March elections of 2014, the national will given support of 50%, almost 50% to this government of the Republic of Serbia and supported Alexander Vukic to lead the government, which is the national will, and I am pleased to represent both the people's will and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, whom they have chosen. Who? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia where people's will is expressed, not on such cheerleading rubbers, Mr Pavicevic's orders. What did that people's will say? What did the people's will of the citizens living in Vojvodina say? Six percent, not full six percent support for Mr Pavicevic and the list he was on. Is that enough to exercise power? It's not enough. Is it against democracy? Of course it's against democracy. Is that rape democracy? Yes, it is the rape of democracy Mr. Pavicevic observes, supports and applauds. Why doesn't he say he's against the will of the people? How do you show your people's will? By voting, that's right, at the polls, by voting, and we're here because Serbian citizens voted that way. That's how they voted, and they voted for half the SNS support. They voted over 50% for a list called what, Mr. Pavicevic? Alexander Vukitch, the future we believe in. That's what Serbian citizens believe, and they showed it at the polls, not the way you and Mr. Zivkovic want it in various vineyards or 6% Mr. Pajtic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21715	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honored Guests, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to Article 12 of this Bill, whose content I am not going to read here now because it is something more extensive than it was contained in Article 11. We, of course, have offered a basic argument for this amendment to all MPs, government representatives and ministers and ministers, but here I want to call on a few additional arguments, two. First of all, I have an argument here for this situation and that MP Zoran Babic really does not answer the questions of other MPs, and he says – if I am happy to be able to answer all three questions to Mr Pavicevic. He just touched one small part of the answer to the first question, and the other two, gentlemen? What about the answers to those questions? I, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, here I now give my word that I will give up the debate on amendments to these remaining six draft laws if the government does only one simple thing, says – we have made a mistake when it comes to the executive's approach to the work of the legislative body. If Ms. Governor Tabakovic does the same, I will give up the discussion and of course, if Mr. Zoran Babic, as head of the party's parliamentary group, who numbers the most popular MPs in the National Assembly, also says - I was wrong to support the inappropriate approach of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If that happens, gentlemen, I give my word to the debate under amendments to these draft laws, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21717	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21718	What the amendment promoter is blackmailing us at this point is to say we respected the regulations, we respected the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, we respected the Constitution, and we have to apologize and say we were wrong. When is it a sin to respect the law, except in the state and in society, how would the amendment's promoters, Zivkovic and Pavicevic want it? I think it's pride to work under the law, that it's an honor to respect the Constitution, that it's honorable and dignified to work under the regulations that define the work of the National Assembly. Now we are essentially proposed by the amendment, revealing the reasons why he submitted these copy-paisys, as Mr. Martinovic said, amendments, nothing more than blackmail. Mr. Pavicevic, we don't take blackmail, we don't take pressure. Do whatever you want and whatever you want and whatever you know, but we'll stick to the Constitution, we'll stick to the law, we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure, and as long as it's done, I won't apologize to anyone. You have to apologize for making us work against the law or apologize for the law. It speaks of a fundamental difference in our policies. This speaks of the fundamental difference between society and the state we want. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to build a society where it will be honor and pride to respect the Constitution, respect the laws, in which it will be honor and pride when the MP respects the Rules of Procedure and when the Government, based on those standards prescribed, works and does not have to apologize to anyone, and at least to you, Mr Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21719	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's discuss this famous Article 12, which is very similar from the previous law, that is, the law that still applies. I would like fellow Members of Parliament who have submitted amendments to finance the Deposit Insurance Agency, and these funds by the same agency are defined to protect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who deposit their funds in banks, whether they are on hand savings, whether they are on sight. And business subjects, too. By accepting this amendment, simply that joint responsibility of the bank and the state would be placed solely on the state. I don't know if that's what the proposer of this amendment wanted. Stories about procedures can stand, but procedures are provided for by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, not violated. I would accept these short-term complaints that fellow MPs had a situation like during the Government of Zoran Zivkovic, that the Assembly was adopting the agenda with a bill that had not yet entered the assembly procedure, that when the laws came to be left all night to write them, not the amendments were "expunged" but the real amendments, so that when the deadline expires at midnight, there was no one in the office to hand it over, so they handed over to police security so that these amendments would be found in the procedure tomorrow. When fellow MPs who submit such amendments do so, then I accept their every criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21721	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić and Dragan Sutanovac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21722	Thank you. The amendment is consequent and it is necessary to submit it, as well as another, when we want to replace the term "regular premiums" with "three months" and it refers to Article 12 which defines how the Agency determines the rate of the regular premium and when and how much, so that and for another member, where the proposal to re-apply the word "regular" is replaced by "three months". I'll explain it as a resulting amendment. It is simply necessary if you want to consistently implement one of the amendments in the law, to intervene with the amendment in any place where the term or definition or part of the article appears that you want to read differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21723	Thank you. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21724	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed National Assembly presidents Mrs Gojkovic and the honored guests, since there are now no more ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and that they attend the meeting of the National Assembly. It's, compared to all the other things, just another small image of our institution's disrespect, but okay. I will now focus on the MPs I believe still have a chance to accept our amendments "is deleted" in this case and on Article 13. It's a bill we're now discussing, and that's a deposit insurance bill. In relation to the basic argument that I have offered here, I want to make another statement, and it concerns exactly what no modern constitutional democracy can live without, and that is the question of rules and procedures. Dear Members of the People’s Parliament, in Article 154 of our Rules of Procedure, clearly states: “The bill prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure may be included in the agenda of the National Assembly within no less than 15 days of its submission. ” The government here is constantly more than 80%, and even in the case of these draft laws, which are part of the 13th of this law, constantly sends us bill proposals by emergency procedure. I'm now wondering if, gentlemen, we are here in some special emergency, so we have to keep doing everything according to this emergency procedure, or should we here respect something that's a rule? Article 154 should be a rule, not an exception. I ask the Members of Parliament to focus our attention more on the vice of this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21725	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly and the Honorable Guests, I assume from the Ministry, since there is no minister, there is no minister, no governor, we are left here without the possibility that anyone from the Government who has the right to speak can answer some of our dilemmas, for example. in relation to Article 14, which we propose to delete. Article 14. e.g. it says — if the Agency assesses that the Fund’s resources will not be sufficient to pay the amounts secured or for other purposes as set out in Article 6 of this Act, the Agency’s additional resources shall be provided, and shall now be listed in four points as follows: I may have now had one question very specific about the content of article 14 of this bill, but since our guests are not authorized to speak, but they can assist ministers or ministers, then I will certainly remain here without answering one question. Since the Minister doesn't have... And here comes Mrs. Widowsky... Welcome, then I'm heading towards the MPs now. I believe that there is one thought about it, I have concluded this on the basis of the debate so far, that it might not be possible to accept an amendment that reads "explicate," but purely because of statistics, respected presidents of the National Assembly, here to say that the NBS has accepted our two amendments that read "expunge". This means that "is deleted" can be meaningful, relevant and responsible, respected gentlemen. Not only did she accept the two, but she will now have a total of 21 accepted amendments in this conference of around 1,000 submitted amendments. I am only saying this to avoid fear from the MPs if something bad were to be voted for in these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21727	On behalf of Glava IV and Article 15 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21728	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honored Guests, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 15 of this bill, and I am very pleased now that I have had the opportunity to make three amendments to three consecutive members here. It rarely happened to me in this National Assembly, even when I once had the right to a replica, and so I did not win. We propose that Article 15 of this bill be deleted and I will now remind all the MPs, since we agreed here this morning that we would also read a little bit of the draft law, because most MPs had no time or opportunity to prepare for this debate to read the bill's proposals, because last week we discussed both the military and the defence, so we were also on the Security Control Committee where we defended the Citizens' Protector and here's what it says in Article 15. Article 15 states: “The Agency is obliged to pay the amount secured in the event of the bankruptcy or liquidation of the bank, which is regulated by the law governing the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks. “ It is possible, gentlemen, that we here in the National Assembly, and with our guests from the government, for example, to provide some kind of agreement on the content of this member, but assuming that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as part of the executive government in our constitutional system, respects the dignity of the central institution of our political system, which is our National Assembly of our Republic, respected gentlemen. Once again, let me say that it is not forgotten, our Parliament is, and it is a great pleasure to be part of it, the sanctuary of political life in our Republic, the esteemed president.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21729	Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21730	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Udovici and the Honored Guests, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to Article 16 of this Bill proposal. Since Article 16 is somewhat more extensive, there are seven views in that article, I couldn’t, reading the contents of those opinions, in two minutes to get there to read everything, and then I won’t do it. I'd like to use these two minutes to say two important things. The first is – I am sorry that, now, among the Members of the SNS, there is obviously little energy running out of energy to our discussion, debate, dialogue in our Assembly, about amendments to the laws tabled by the People's Assembly of the People's MPs from the opposition. As it started this morning, it seemed to me that this one energy would be preserved by late tonight, but we seem to have a slight indulgence here in the attention of the SNS MPs. So I suggest that the president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, consider that since now is the time to do so, it may be time to set one break, not an hour from two to three, but, let's say, from 14:00 to 14.30 in order for the Members of the SNS to rest a little bit, perhaps even further prepared and agreed to continue as we did this morning and began, the Honored President.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21731	Can we talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21732	Of course. We have made an amendment to Article 1 a basic argument as to why we believe that this article should be deleted and the same argument that we have offered in Article 1 applies both to Article 16 and to what I have said I would no longer be able to add to the possibility of adopting this amendment to this Member of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21733	Thank you. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21734	President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Pavicevic has something to say about himself when it comes to amendments -- it is deleted and there is no explanation for what he ordinarily exposes. So it's not true that he didn't read the law, but he just might not have been able to pass it on in an explanation. It is a pity that Mr Pavicevic was not with his current party in 2000 at the beginning, perhaps he could help us not to discuss this today. So, I have an impression, a toast to him, if Einstein or Tesla, maybe that would be a little better.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21735	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21736	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting from the mention of the MP group and the MPs of the SNS. I would like to inform the chairman and president of the National Assembly that the MPs of the SNS are not tired and that this debate is extremely interesting to them. We are very interested in how many more ways, metamorphosis, twisting words, changing the order of the sentence, the amendment promoters want to participate in this discussion? Moreover, we respect them very much, because when I remember calling from 2008 to 2012, usually the MPs of the opposition sat down and talked to themselves, we respected our colleagues, members of the former regime – we sit with them in the O.R. and discuss as much as we feel is necessary. I can give them a confession. In two words, they have managed to make 250 variations from five sentences so far. Well, good for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21737	It was a replica. We're not wasting time. The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21738	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, Madam Minister, representatives of the ministry and the National Bank of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to continue the continuity, but according to the amendment. I find the amendment unacceptable, like all other amendments which are effectively deleted by the entire draft deposit insurance law. I will return to the very concept of this law, which is the very subject of regulation of this law, because I think it is very important that citizens know what the subject of regulation is. This is deposit insurance, as well as the protection of legal and natural persons' deposits and the preservation of the stability of the financial system of the Republic of Serbia. This bill is absolutely in the interest of Serbian citizens and nothing can be above the interest of Serbian citizens or even the preservation of the spirit of parliamentaryism or the dignity of the National Assembly. Because we are representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their interest must be above all else. Why were these changes necessary? Here, one reason is because we had a situation in 2012 that complete funds for the insurance of deposits were actually spent on the insolvent “Agrobank”. So poor loans to Agrobank management have damaged Serbian citizens by 300m euros. For these reasons, we need to pass one of these laws, which will protect us from these things in the future and which will bring about the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21739	Thank you. Dear Members, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21741	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honored guests, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, our parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 16 and that is to say. 3 to item 4, and correspondence item 6. The majority of the Parliament and the Government have rejected our amendment, and I will, in order to know what the amendment is and what we have submitted, to read to you the original proposal of the Government which says, based on the information provided in Article 8(3) of this Act, the Agency determines the amount secured by the deposit, based on the current state of all deposit of that deposit in the bank on the day of the bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. the liquidation of the bank, including the corresponding agreed interest calculated until that day. The second point is that – in the case of the account of the secured amount for the deposit representing the contracted asset, the payment shall be made if the claim of the depositor is greater than the amount of its commitment to the bank under that contract and up to the level of the amount secured. What we have proposed to change - the Government proposes that, as soon as possible, the Agency should make a decision in accordance with the Act of the Management Board of the Agency on which the bank as a payer bank will pay the amounts secured for the Agency’s account and conclude the contract with that bank. We suggest that this position be deleted and that it reads – the Agency in the procedure implemented in accordance with the law governing public procurement determines a bank which as a payer bank on behalf of and for the Agency's account will pay the amounts secured and conclude the contract with that bank. Article 4 which states - no legal and public procurement shall be applied to the selection procedure of the bank referred to in Article 3. We propose to delete this and propose a new position 5, which should be read – the Agency is obliged to notify the depositary immediately after the end of the public tender procedure, and no later than three days through public information funds and on its official website of the depositor of the date of start of payment of the secured amounts to the payer from Article 3 of this Article and the place of payment of the amounts secured. We put ourselves like this because the transparency and control of the solution offered by the proposer is very important, and according to which the Agency does not apply the Public Procurement Act in the process of determining the paying bank, which we find very unacceptable. The solution of the promoter carries a huge risk of corruption, and we believe that it is necessary to change it in the way we have proposed. I hope that in the voting day you will support this amendment of ours, because one of the basics on which the agencies acquire money and the budget of the Republic of Serbia and it is perfectly normal that where the money comes from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, that is. The money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to apply the Public Procurement Act, I think we all agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21742	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, allow me to welcome, on your behalf and on my behalf, students who will practice in Bundestag under the International Parliamentary Scholarship Programme, who are currently following a part of today's session from the Great Hall Gallery. The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21743	I'd just like to explain, it sounds like an easy target to say that some exemption from the Public Procurement Act is a target for corruption, but this is about highly complex financial affairs and situations that cannot and are not subject to international practices. In particular, in this case it is necessary to pay, not only the choice but also the payment of the funds, within seven days of the decision on bankruptcy or the initiation of the bankruptcy or liquidation procedure. It is obvious that the Law on Public Procurement in our country, as in other countries, does not regulate this type of specific case. Therefore, this is regulated in international practice, in European practice, in accordance with the European Directives, a special act proposed and prescribed by the Agency itself in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21744	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment. You, Mr. Braddick, after the amendment again? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21745	Thank you, Your Honor. I'll be the head of the parliamentary group from time to time. A colleague, Bradic, explained this amendment in detail, asking that the bank's choice to pay deposits be made through a public tender. Of course, we don't consider this public procurement to be a public procurement for buying from sugar or rabbit stores. We believe that there are more banks in the state of Serbia that can deal with this business and through the qualification process of banks that meet the conditions can be determined by some banks that can deal with this business, and when it comes to concrete work, then the banks are invited to make a short-term offer to do the job. Then it wouldn't happen that one bank, created as a savings bank, is doing all these jobs. I think you understand what I'm talking about. Most of the time, there's a bank with us that has a monopoly to do these jobs. It is precisely because it would not be one bank, that it would be more banks and that there would be a choice with less cost for the citizens of Serbia, we suggested that it be transparent and that it might be banks whose founder, or shareholder, is the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21746	Just a little bit of a deal. Since you only have two minutes to let Mr. Bradic go, then I'll give you my word, to honor the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21747	Thank you. Madam Minister, I fully justify your position to support this law and the right of the assembly majority to vote for what the Ministry has proposed. I only tell the citizens of Serbia that there is another political view of solving this problem, because when we say public procurement, it is normal for this type of procurement to have its specifics, but you will allow me, it is possible to apply the general rules of the Public Procurement Act to any supply, adequately suited to this matter, i.e. the business of the Agency. So, we think that the Public Procurement Act, with all the modifications that are required for certain cases, should be applied, and if these are budgetary means, it must be applied in order to minimise all possible abuses and to ensure that people know that their money, budget money, is being spent rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21748	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21749	As far as I can tell, we all agree. The comments of both previous speakers are on the way that it should not be just one bank, one that enters the election, that it must be transparent, that it must be clearly regulated procedure. All of this is ensured by this law, except that since the provisions and procedures of the Public Procurement Act do not correspond to the specificities of the situation of the financial system, or that something must be completed this quickly, then all these and the conditions are met by the regulations adopted by the Agency's Management Board in accordance with this law, so everything is fine, respecting the principles of public procurement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21750	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, according to the amendment to Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21751	Two sentences, so you don't take any more time. Therefore, if that were the case, you would write these in a third position in accordance with the Act of the Management Board of the Agency and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. This does not appear in the third position, and the Management Board of the Agency may mean that it prescribes the proposition it considers necessary. Now, that's what we're talking about, so that's not in line with the Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21752	Members of the 17th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovici, the Honorable Guests, Mrs Shuput, Mr Milikiæ and Mr Kokotovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 17 of this Bill. We have offered one key argument for the adoption of this amendment, but here I would like to extend that argument to the respected gentlemen, with the hope that if the MPs, if the government had not already heard, would accept this argument and as our third amendment, would "be deleted", would also accept this amendment to Article 17. So, according to our court, gentlemen, by sending this bill as one of the draft laws to the National Assembly on 28 January 2015, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has decided to act as if we were living in a constitutional system in which the Assembly depends on the government, while respected gentlemen and Mrs. Udovic, Mr. Arsenović, according to our Constitution, the Assembly does not depend on the Government but is exactly the opposite. The government depends on the Assembly, and I believe that this kind of government approach reveals one misunderstanding and irresponsibility. That's enough, I just think we should remember article 99. The Constitution, gentlemen, is our most important document here. In Article 99, here is, for example, what the Parliament's relationship with the Government and the National Bank says – the National Assembly elects the Government to oversee its work, decides on the termination of the mandate, etc. And as for the National Bank, the election, the governor of the National Bank, and oversees its work. Here most MPs act as if the government is overseeing our work, gentlemen. Let's not let that happen here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21754	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21755	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, of course I find this amendment unacceptable and such a conjecture amendment and, of course, I propose that the above-mentioned amendment be rejected. So, amendment to Article 17. It's a bill of law. With the same epochal explanation, and I'd like to read that epochal explanation. This amendment was therefore submitted in order to bring the text of the amendment to Article 1 into line with regard to the defined objective. The promoters of this amendment with such a brilliant explanation are, of course, MPs Pavicevic and Zivkovic, I don't know now which one of them wrote this argument, I suppose, Zivkovic, but that's less important. What is important is that Serbian citizens have the opportunity to see some MPs obey the laws, treat and treat the amendments, to the National Assembly, but also to the citizens of Serbia. So I ask that this and all the other amendments in the text - be deleted, in a text that does not in any way affect and correct those legal solutions and refuse, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21756	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. MARIAN RISTICEVIC: Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respecting the right to verbal exhibition and the obstruction of every MP of the opposition, regardless of who wrote this amendment, and who kept watch, I must say that this amendment is totally unacceptable. This amendment would be bordered by "Miki Mouse" policy if they accepted. What if, if a new aunt comes along, who put 12m euros in the couch, if she brings in some new banks and liquidates these, as was the case, what if these financial experts, by removing domestic banks, allow the financial market to take over most of the foreign banks, in a certain way, deliver 86% of the financial markets to foreign banks and remain 14% of the domestic banks? And then without a sock on his head and a gun, like "Development Bank" and "Agrobank" go in with their tycoons friends and rob the bank from the inside, and in that robbery, they have the biggest damage. Article 17 states that in such cases, in all cases when the liquidation and bankruptcy of the bank occurs, it is an obligation to pay the depositors at the level of their deposits guaranteed by the States through the Agency. Also, according to this article, those who have deposited to guarantee it for a job, as a means of security, should be compensated. If we delete this, we question savings. In that case, we're not just questioning the savings, we're questioning the liquidity of banks. That's how we threaten the economy. In this way we are jeopardising foreign reserves, I hope that my colleague Arsic will agree with me. The adoption of this amendment would be devastating both by population and by economy, both by state and by foreign currency reserves. For me, this is unacceptable, regardless of how I respect any opposition obstruction, but in doing so, it has to be kept in mind, that when something erases in such a situation, it saves citizens, it doesn't do them any harm, so it can at least skip to the point where a member doesn't delete to be able to face their voters. What if we adopt this amendment, proposed? The congregation has a right to do that. Who in the future will make up for the damages to the depositors, the savings, if they find their hard-earned savings due to the liquidation and bankruptcy of the banks lost. If this Article is adopted, or this amendment, Article 17 is deleted, and in such a case, the Agency shall not compensate the payer through the payer bank for the damage to the savings. For me, it is unacceptable, no matter how academically congratulating the proposal of this amendment is. Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honored Guests, Mrs Šput, Mr Milicic and Mr Kokotovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 18. The bill we're discussing right now. Compared to the basic argument we have offered in the explanation for the amendments to all the members of this bill, here respected gentlemen and Mr Arsenovic, I would like to add two things, of course to convince the MPs that in the day of the vote they are voting for adoption and for this amendment. First of all, I noticed during the debate today that there is a kind of fear, fear, first of all with the MPs that if our amendments are accepted, it will be deleted, that in this area, in this field, there will be one clearing, that we will have one ice on which nothing will be found. They won't, gentlemen. This area is in a certain way and is already regulated and I ask Mrs. Widowski to say that she does not, if she doesn't think so. I just want to tell the gentlemen of the People's Parliament that the field has already been regulated. It's just a question of whether we're now going to accept this government approach, which here in two or three days is trying to force us to accept quickly what she's proposing in a package of solutions in other drafts of the law. Another thing, gentlemen, I have heard here another comment regarding our amendments, says legitimate obstruction. What I'm doing today, what Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I are doing, is not obstruction, gentlemen, this is called deconstruction of poor executive power, and that is why we should fight here, MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21759	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21760	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we adopt this amendment to delete Article 18. This means that deposit claims based on secured deposits are transferred to the agency. In such a situation, depositors would be denied the payment of the secured deposit, which is what is up to 50,000 euros. In this way, our savings would make it impossible for our citizens to charge their savings in accordance with this law. It's unacceptable for me. Is it reconstruction, obstruction, destruction, etc. You can call whatever you want, but it's unacceptable to put someone hard-earned money in a bank, to make it often below 50,000 euros, to save up to 1,000 euros, the most savings deposits moving somewhere below 5,000 euros. These are hard-earned money, and we as parliament must not allow, because of verbalism, as I have called it, in some way, to inherit and adopt this amendment and in such a way bring to rest most of our savings which put hard-earned money into the bank by counting on the state to ensure that these deposits will at all times calm them down if the bank fails and goes into bankruptcy and liquidation. It's totally unacceptable, no matter what it's called, a pronoun who has knowledge, who has a calling. As MPs, we simply must not allow ourselves to be unserious, to adopt the amendment, and to endanger the endangered population that some couples keep for the darkest days, if there are unexpected situations in families that often live on the edge of existence. Also, Article 18 states that claims relating to a higher level of deposits of 50,000 euros will not be compensated by the Agency's funds, will not be transferred to insurance at the Agency, but will be charged through the liquidation mass, i.e. through what remains in bankruptcy and liquidation procedures. I think that this member is extremely fair, that he offers everyone a fair solution, that they collect their damages up to 50,000, and those over 50,000 in proportion to the funds that remain after bankruptcy and liquidation make up for themselves and the rest of the damage, and I think that safety for both the population and the economy is necessary and that it is absolutely unsertainable to accept that amendment. If someone submitted it is his right, but as MPs of a serious high house in this House, we do not have the right to endanger our citizens and endanger our savings, primarily under 50,000 euros, and I think that those up to 5,000 euros, mostly in our banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21761	Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenović, the Minister is not here again, but there are our guests from the Ministry, Mrs Shuput, Mr Milicic and Mr Kokotovic, the Honored Guests, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to this article of the Law and of course, as was the case in relation to the previous article and the previous amendment, I and now want to use these two minutes not to repeat what was our argument that we offered in writing to the MPs when we tabled this amendment, but I would like to complete this argument with a new set of arguments, and all based on the debate that we are here today. I have listened carefully to the comments of MPs and MPs here on our amendments, this bill. I noticed that in the description of what I'm doing here today, some inappropriate terms of type are used -- hatred, ignorance, irresponsibility and similar terms, as well as terms -- obstruction, etc. Destruction. Please, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's imagine these terms. Here, I have a Serbian dictionary here, Mother of Serbs, to use the word "gentlemen" for a little while, gentlemen, be careful what it means when we say "destruction for someone's actions." He says destruction - destruction, destruction, destruction, respected gentlemen. When one MP submits one amendment, he submits the amendment, not to bring something down, but to correct what some proposal is, gentlemen, respected. Now the question for us is – how did we come to the situation with the text – is deleted, we have to fix something that the executive authority is doing? Let's think about it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21763	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the text of this amendment, or by the lack of the text of this amendment, to call it that, the depositor's right to be informed of the security of their deposits, of the level of insurance, etc. According to Article 19(1), the bank is obliged to provide depositors and interested persons with information on the provision of deposits set out in this law, in particular information on the amount and the payment method. Unlike my predecessor, I will talk about the amendment, which they have submitted, not the dictionary, and what certain words mean. By erasing this position or this member, it would lead to the fact that the bank does not have to provide information, that it should not provide information to depositors on the level of secured deposits. For me, it's unacceptable for the simple reason that any one saves when it enters the bank, it needs to know what it's being guaranteed by the bank, which is guaranteed by the state, which is being guaranteed by the agency and not given such information would be another crime against our population, and I don't think that something like that should be allowed if MPs consider this to be a serious representative home, a legislative body that needs to ensure the safety of our savings, not uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21765	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21766	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the amendment to Article 19 in the text be rejected - deleted. Despite my full agreement with the RS government's explanation, with an explanation that does not accept this amendment, I felt the need to report and I would like to read the RS government's explanation. The amendment shall not be accepted, given that the reasons given in the text of the amendment are not given in the explanation. I think this explanation speaks for everything and says a lot about the proponent's motives to write these amendments. Let me tell you, I'm not against obstruction. I think it's something that's already been seen several times. I think it's something that's legitimate, but it's the easiest thing to do. Mr. Chairman, the easiest way to write hundreds and hundreds of amendments in the text is to delete both the people's MPs and the citizens of Serbia, which is the most important, but it does not require any particular expertise or mind. Anyone can do that. Come on, Mr. Pavicevic, once you've made a mistake and write down some amendment that will contribute to something that will do something good for both financial stability and fiscal consolidation and economic recovery for anything. Come on, one of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21767	On behalf of Chapter V and Article 20 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21768	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenović, the Honored Mrs Udovic and the Honored Guests of our National Assembly, Mrs Shuput, Mr Milikic and Mr Kokotovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to both Article 20 and the title above Article 20. As was the order in previous cases, even now I will not, the Honored Chairman, remind the MPs of what our basic argument was. My initial assumption is that all MPs have read that argument. So we mean that it already exists. I just want to add here an argument that, I think, can affect the mood and attitude of the MPs on this amendment and the possibility of its adoption. Here, and just before we heard that there is one doubt here that the quality proposals of our amendments are and it is riverlike – so let's finally suggest something, and there is some text that is not – is deleted. I must tell the MPs here that in this assembly of the National Assembly so far, not counting these seven draft laws, we have been accepted, honored gentlemen, 19 amendments. The five amendments concerned exactly the area for which Mrs. Udovici was responsible. When she was a guest here, when we devoted ourselves to discussing several draft laws that she was defending here, five of our amendments were adopted. Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic adopted seven of our amendments when we changed the Law on Planning and Construction. Mrs. Tabakovic has now adopted two, distinguished gentlemen. This, therefore, is called a good action by the opposition in the Assembly, but also by deconstructing a very bad executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21769	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21770	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of article 106. - The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I warn you to warn the People's MP in the future, when it comes to this amendment, to explain why he wants to delete, say, the title - the Agency's report, since its amendment - is deleted. I'd like him to professionally explain to us why we should delete something that is in favor of these citizens, for the benefit of the state at all, and not to listen to a lecture, and that we are really harassing citizens and everyone who is watching this transmission. If he refuses to explain why something should be deleted, I ask you to apply article 109 and give him a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21771	Mr. Djukanovic, every time there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I think about how well it's based, how real it is. You do not see that through your discussion, however, you are challenging Mr. Risticevic to step away from the topic. If you'd strictly stick to it, as individuals, and I'm monitoring the exposure of anyone who's attached to the amendment and only talks about it, then I don't have the moral right to allow another MP to do it. But as soon as someone steps down and starts talking past the amendment, then I get all the arguments out of my hands that I'm acting like one. Therefore, make sure that it depends mainly on you whether I can get Mr Pavicevic in line. In that sense, I think you're partly right, and even I thought I'd throw it back up and tell him – go back to the agenda, but given what was said before, then, to put it that way, I looked right through his fingers. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and it's your right if you want us to come forward on Voting Day? No, I don't. I will now ask Mr Pavicevic, when he explains the future amendments, to explain them so that he convinces the MPs why he suggested it and why we should accept them, because there is a lot more dispute whether you were right or not. I think that you have the right to do so and no one should question whether he is valid or not, that's what the MPs will say. If you respect my suggestion and recommendation, then we will work much easier, painless and more efficiently. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21772	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, how much I have been able to read the text of the amendment, the report of the Deposit Insurance Agency, if we adopt this amendment, would read this (the MP shows empty paper). It's almost impossible to read. I might have accepted it if I could read it, but the deposit insurance agency's report, if we had adopted the amendments of our fellow MPs, would have read it this way (the MP shows empty paper). It is simply unacceptable for me, and I believe for most MPs, and I think we will refuse this amendment. He did not need any great skill, calling, and knowledge, and the cry that is more and more heard from me does not prevent me from expressing my position. As soon as someone starts yelling a lot, the stronger the screams, the narrower his arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21773	Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovicu, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honored Guests, Mrs Shuput, Mr Milekic and Mr Kokotovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment and, as I have done throughout the day, I will, of course, use these two minutes, honourable Mr Arsenovic, to try to convince the MPs to accept our amendment to Article 21. Since I understand that the MPs of the SNS want to read a little bit and hear what is written in the articles, here is for Article 21, gentlemen, who has not been able to read, I will read what is written in Article 21. It says: “If the bank fails to meet the obligations prescribed by this law or by the Act of the Agency under this law, the Agency shall inform the National Bank of Serbia thereof, which shall take appropriate measures in accordance with the law. “ What is my additional argument, gentlemen, compared to the one we handed over in writing to all the MPs, and regarding Article 21? Exactly what might be possible is for us to agree on the content of much of the members of this bill, only that we had time and that we MPs here agreed, to give ourselves time to read, interpret and understand what it says. As for the loudness, the respected chairman of Arsenovic, two things. I consulted Professor Milisavljevic, he deals with hearing pathology, he says – everything is fine. The other thing, the only man who screams inappropriately when he comes to the assembly is Mr. Wolf, so I'm asking you to tell him when he gets here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21775	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. Please, Mr. Pavicevic, do not engage in contradiction. If you haven't read it, and if you don't know how to give the second amendment, I'm sorry, you've said about it, then it's not right to defend your amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21776	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, on the proposal of my esteemed colleagues, reads this (the MP shows empty paper). This is very hard to write. This amendment text had to be written by two, one couldn't possibly write. For this reason, if they had accepted such an amendment, Article 21 would have read as follows (the MP shows empty paper), meaning that the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia would not have taken measures from its jurisdiction to implement this law, to carry out measures at the request of the Agency if banks started to mess with savings, deposits, etc. It's unacceptable for me. For me, savings and citizens are sacred, and above all, those with very low deposits, with very little savings. We have to protect them at all costs so they don't experience what they used to experience. So, no matter how much he yells, whoever interprets it as pathology, I can interpret it in another way. It doesn't have to be a hearing pathology when someone from the amendment to the amendment that reads like this, which is completely empty, when someone with lack of text in the amendment compensates it by shouting, I can call it another pathology, which is what my colleagues, Rancic and Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, are responsible for. They should assess the lack of arguments and the amount of that noise and screaming that follows due to the lack of arguments in the amendments that have been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21777	Please, Mr. Ristichevich. Mr. Risticevic, please, so while you've explained the amendment I have nothing, but don't do pathology or psychology, let's leave it elsewhere. It's not correct, it's not okay, please. Let's have one level of dignity. As much as you disagree with someone, it's your right and you can disagree in one dignified way, so I ask you not to use any more words in the future. The word is Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21778	Your Honor, President, you have injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says - that the session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the People's Parliament, the other People's MP, to use offensive expressions, or to present facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. So, the speaker who last spoke was talking for two minutes or more, you didn't warn him or interrupt him. He was talking about a previous MP who needed to see a psychiatrist, to be treated for not the first time. You have thus harshly violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it seems by the majority to the MPs of the opposition. That's why we're warning, and that's why the entire international community knows there's a dictatorship to the opposition here. This is outrageous.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21779	Mr. Veselinović, you have advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure to which I have responded. You know well that according to the Rules of Procedure it says well – if the chairman warns the speaker and he no longer does so, it is thought that, let me say, the error has been removed. So I think I've done my job. I'll follow into the future. I'm not here to be a gendarme and watch whoever, right now, uh, stepped over the wrong path to punish him, but rather, to communicate well with you. In that sense, I'm acting like one, and I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt, and you can look for it in the voting day. Shall we make a statement? Yeah. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21780	I'm advertising a violation of the 107th rude violation of Parliament's dignity, but we heard just now from an esteemed colleague that he is managing by something that is said between the people's community, which, of course, turns the whole story. I think we, the Honorable Chairman, are the sovereign state that has its own parliament and I guess we make our own decisions here. I personally, and everyone insults that someone from the international community is supposed to suggest and manage us here by parliament, because I think that we are enough of an independent state and that there is simply no need for such a thing and to call for such a thing, and of course twist something that nobody in the international community has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21781	I have to say, I didn't realize it that way, and that's why I don't think he did, and even if he did, I can't tell him not to say "free opinion" here, and I don't see a reason why the Rules of Procedure got hurt. You can vote in the day for the National Assembly to plead. No, okay. The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Do you want the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21782	The Honorable Chairman, who is being held here by the dictatorship in this House, we can discuss it. We have repeatedly accepted meaningful amendments from opposition colleagues, and we have no problem continuing with such practice. However, the problem arises when individual opposition colleagues only to obstruct the work of this parliament and the adoption of the proposed laws, all they know, is to propose - is deleted. He intends to be obstructive and the fact that the senseless result, after all, only with a revolt and a mockery of citizens who wonder what kind of amendments are being submitted by individual colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21783	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21784	By amendment. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you are witnesses that I have spoken almost 80% of the amendment and now I am speaking according to the amendment. If banks fail to meet their obligations, the National Bank of Serbia shall take appropriate measures on a proposal from the Agency to notify the National Bank of irregularities encountered. I was about to interpret that it is unserious to delete such a provision in such a situation as our savings would come into a very unpleasant position so that they would no longer be guaranteed their savings. I think I'm one of the few people who talked about the amendments, but, Mr. Chairman, you have to protect me from the screams of these doctors. They shout more and more, they need to teach me something, not to make a fuss of hope, to do some kind of training that I'm not used to. They can use some of their knowledge to teach me something and I don't mind. If he continues with this noise, I will have to seek protection from the Protector of the Citizens, given that he deals with politics, I will seek protection from the peasants' protectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21785	You haven't advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I only have one sentence to say. I don't have a decibal measure here, and I can't. The nature of each of us is that someone speaks louder, someone quieter. The intonations are different. Please, anything within the limits of me saying normal or understandable, to tolerate, let's not be so sensitive. Please, in that sense, we don't make that kind of speech. Thank you for understanding. As for your protection, I think I was correct in that regard when advertising is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and we move on. On behalf of Chapter VI and Article 2 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21786	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honorable Guests of our National Assembly today, Mrs Shuput, Mr Milekic and Mr Kokotovic, MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted the amendment to Article 22, and I will be the Honored Chairman as always to focus on the interpretation of our amendment. First of all, I have three things to say here, and here I go in a row. First of all, our co-workers Ivana Negojevic here now appear citizens, simply because Mrs Mrdakovic has some dilemmas, which support the amendment of Article 22, as we have proposed to Mr Arsenovic, and I suggest we just continue at this pace. The second thing, dear Mr Arsenovicu, is that we are freely elected representatives of citizens here and of course it is okay for citizens to report to our associate Ivana Negojevic, this Article 22 should be deleted because of the arguments you have been presenting here all day. Then there's nothing left for me, Mr. Arsenovic and the honourable gentlemen of the People's Parliament to follow the will of the citizens who have chosen us here in the free elections. Isn't that right, Mr. Arsenovic? Third thing, I must say, there is one question here about this amendment to Article 22, one question about meaning, and then I offer an argument to Mr Arsenovic. Well, if it makes sense for Mrs Tabakovic to adopt two of our amendments – it is deleted on one of the two draft laws she defends here, I think it is appropriate to adopt Mr Arsenovic and our amendment – is deleted to Article 22 of this proposal. Well, if Mrs. Widowsky doesn't accept, the MPs will accept. I'd be pleased, and I'd be a citizen of respected gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21787	Mr Pavicevic, but please explain in the next amendment how you explained this amendment with the elections, with no idea what you said, but you didn't say anything about the amendment. Please don't, and you promised to only talk about the amendment, and you didn't say the amendment and you didn't convince me personally, come on, I'm not the one who has to understand all this, but that this amendment needs to be accepted. Thank you. Again, I insist on talking about the agenda. What you were saying wasn't the agenda. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21788	The Honorable Chairman here will agree with a distinguished colleague, I am convinced that someone has knocked on his door either from bankers or from tycoons, because what he proposes to delete can only be answered by them. I really believe that some tycoon came and knocked on their doors and told them – every honor that you want to wipe out, or maybe one of these bankers, because this particular member regulates the penalties for banks if they don't respect these legal provisions, even though you're asking for this to be erased, then every honor, I'm glad that someone stepped in to protect those who have robbed citizens all these years, that the people simply see it, but we simply have to show the citizens what it is about and I really believe that maybe some Miskovic or someone knocked on the door and certainly commended this amendment by a respected colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21789	The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21790	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Djukanovic almost said what I wanted to say. If someone doesn't want to punish the banks, then he's pushing the bank into violation. So, then, the bank can uninterruptedly rob savings, as was the case so far, especially in Vojvodina, Vojvodina Development Bank, then Agrobank, and New Agrobank. So, he can rob without distractions, because she's not subject to punishment. I don't think it's acceptable for the Assembly to stand in favor of a millionaire, and for the benefit of millions of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21791	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has a People's Messenger, Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21792	Thank you. Our amendment refers to Article 22, which defines the amount of fines for the responsible person in the bank and the maximum amount. In the bill there are 500,000 dinars, we propose for 200,000 dinars less, but this amendment is a good reason to remove the confusion that may arise through our discussion, because the amendment is proof that this bill is withdrawn from the procedure, that all amendments by colleagues Vladimir Pavicevic and Zoran Zivkovic would remain in force. That area's been arranged. The government wants in a different way to settle the area and I've been against the idea since the beginning, meaning since the change of the Ministry Act, so through this Deposit Insurance Act. The government's intention is to go through all seven laws. What did the government say in its explanation, why didn't it accept an amendment that changed the amount of fines above? I would ask all of us, including government representatives, that when we take the right to comment on the content of someone's reasoning or amendment, to remember that we write our own arguments, and according to the good old one - who lives in a glass house should not be thrown stone, anywhere, which is a common thing here. Therefore, the Government explains to me the refusal of amendments in the following way – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that by increasing the above level of fines for a responsible person in the bank to 500,000 dinars, the level of responsibility for handling in accordance with the law that regulates deposit insurance and enables its consistent implementation, especially in conditions where the time of payment of amounts, secured deposits, as well as the security of financial discipline, is reduced, and all in order to successfully consolidate the Deposit Insurance Fund. Like the old one - the more startled the crowd, the more the explanation makes me laugh. This is a constant manner, not only of this government, all governments, that the reasons for the refusal of amendments are written without any connection to the amendment, and as I have read to you, it is available to all without internal meaning in the line of sentences to which the MPs Boris Stefanovic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ciric, Dragan Sutanovac and me are explained why 500,000 and not 300,000 are explained. If I hadn't connected with the other laws that are claimed here to be related to the Deposit Insurance Act, right now to stop the debate and to withdraw from the procedure, the area would have been arranged differently, but it would have been. It is incorrect to bring confusion only to the joy of removing any member of this law from being an unsettled area, but, well. I don't think the government should accept the argument we gave or agree to our proposal to be 300,000 instead of 500,000. But I think anyone who has the intention of writing to an MP who submits an amendment to comment on disqualification, whether the person of the MP or the content of the amendment, should make sure that he himself wrote something that is inadmissible and that is not even legible, let alone explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21793	On behalf of Chapter 7 and Article 23 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovici Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21794	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honored Mrs. Udovici, honored guests in our National Assembly and respected chairman and vice-president of the National Assembly, Mr. Arsenović, since you have told me several times that you have doubted whether these arguments are directed towards the content of the amendment, I would like to give Mr. Arsenovic a special explanation here why we have submitted the amendment to Article 23, which reads - is deleted. Here, I'm speaking directly to you, Mr. Arsenovic. So, what happened, Mr. Arsenovic? On January 28th, the government sent to the Assembly, or we received these proposals by emergency procedure. I have read Article 154 of our Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly in which it writes – the bill prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session within no less than 15 days of its submission. The government wanted us to put this on the agenda within two days, to discuss, to prepare the amendments, to improve by calculating that we could spend a day and night more than we could devote to, and it wasn't theoretically possible, Mr Arsenovic and I thought and Mr Zoran Zivkovic felt that we should use today's session here to warn the government that it was an inappropriate relationship with the National Assembly and that is why, Mr Arsenović, we have submitted 186 amendments to the vote "expect", and also to Article 23 of this bill. We believe that the appropriate way to act is to warn the Government and to say - not so, gentlemen. Mr. Arsenović, I hope you understand our argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21795	Sit down, I'll tell you. So you don't stand for the amendment because you don't agree with the law, but because it didn't come in time and you couldn't study it. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: That's right. But that's not enough reason to accept that amendment. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: I think it is. Thank you, I get it. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić and Dragan Sutanovac. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21796	Thank you. The amendment is the second consequence, as I announced, following the first subsequent and first amendment, which instead of paying the regular premium talks about three months, because Article 10 introduces the notion of a regular premium. Article 12 explains that a regular premium is the one to be paid three months. Our amendment isn't just linguistic. The explanation that we have received is in line with the European directives I can accept as one of the explanations - let's let it not matter, because there is really no such weight as I have amendments to the Agency for Insurance that have weight, but this amendment is once again proof whether it remains regular, if this member is deleted, whether the Government withdraws until the end of the debate in particular the whole text of the proposal, the area of deposit insurance remains regulated. Our amendments went towards repairs, somewhere completely cosmetic or linguistic, somewhere essential, precisely because I disagree with the idea that this law wants the area to be arranged after the entry into force, so that the explanation I received agrees with the arguments and the amendments where the proposal appears to replace the word "regularly" with the word "three-monthly". We don't have any dispute. It is the right of the government to choose an expression, but it is also the government's obligation to explain to all those MPs who are deluded that by withdrawing this bill from the procedure of the areas, because the government has an obligation to inform citizens in good time and in good time, so when it notices that false information is spreading that there is no regulation of the area by the law, then it is the government's obligation to inform the citizens of Serbia that there are actually things, not how anyone would want it to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21797	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21798	Thank you, Madam President. I thank you for understanding why a new term proposed by the legislator should be adopted, and I also remind you that we have all shared good reasons for the adoption of all these laws together already in the day of the debate in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21799	Thank you. Members of the 24th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21800	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Widow and Honored Guests, Mrs Shuput, Mr Milikic and Mr Kokotovic, Member of the 24th, who we propose to delete is the best proof that, if we accept our amendments, nothing special will happen, gentlemen, that we will not remain clean. Let me read to you what it says in Article 24 and Mrs Vlahovic, and Mr Orlic, and Mrs Mrdavkovic, and Mr Babic and Mrs Tomic. Article 24 says: "On the day of the application of this law, the Deposit Insurance Act ceases to apply," respected gentlemen. So, there's already a Deposit Insurance Act. If it were to be accepted to delete this member and all the previous members and the next Article 25, we would not be left here in disarray in that field, but we would have the Deposit Insurance Act that is now being applied, which already exists. What do I conclude, dear gentlemen? I conclude, here, at the end of the debate on amendments to this bill, that it was really worth it here today to read a member by member, to explain the amendments to "be deleted" for each of the 25 members, because it is obvious that there are people's MPs here who will vote for this law, without even knowing that there is a law that regulates this field, and then they say -- well, we have to adopt this, because if we don't adopt it there won't be anything. Well, they won't, gentlemen. We have the law, it will continue to exist, and in the regular procedure here to discuss amendments or a brand-new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21801	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21802	I'm reporting for the amendment. Madam President, Madam Minister, six hours of debate today, with one break, and we will work, I believe, in these evening and night hours ahead. The deposit insurance law, the 25 amendments "is deleted", without even one reply, if deleted, is a solution that may be better. It is the right of every MP to propose an amendment and I have no problem when that right is consumed and used. Almost all parliamentary groups have submitted amendments, we will talk about them and look for the best solution, but what I believe is that they also ask a colleague who works at the National Assembly for Mr Pavicevic, except for all the support he receives, is also a question that comes into the SNS parliamentary group – how much does it cost to perform independent MPs, who don't give any idea, except that they give a large number of pointless amendments "is deleted"? I asked the Department of the National Assembly, because probably because of this large number of amendments, and of 260, 180 and something is "expunge", all the other amendments that are worth talking about are. Due to 180 and several amendments, we will probably work tomorrow and tomorrow will not go to the expense of Mr Pavicevic's soul, but will go to the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am obliged to inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how much it costs to experience some of the MPs -- 1.500,000 dinars. A million and 500 thousand dinars cost Mr. Pavicevic's performance, Mr. Pavicevic's advert to talk about everything, not only about amendments, because of banking, and I respect everything he knows, he is a doctor of science and I respect everyone's knowledge, but at least for what's been said, there is really not one single argument, but there is a price, which, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you will pay, which will be paid by businessmen, which they will pay from the budget, because these valuable and responsible people in the National Assembly have to work both today and tomorrow overtime, because MPs have to come to the National Assembly today and tomorrow for travel expenses. The performance and experience of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by Mr Pavicevic cost 1.500,000 dinars. Is it worth the support? It would be worth it if solutions were given, if it were proposed better, if it was discussed better and I had no problem, but if not one single position was said, and one million and a half dinars are spent. What do you think ended up with this million and a half dinars in the children's care fund suffering from rare diseases? What do you think he went for pregnant women? What do you think he went for kindergartens, schools, possibly educational workers, health workers, to heal our public finances? No, Mr. Pavicevic "wipes" the amendments, "wipes", "wipes" was deleted today by 1.500,000 dinars. Madam President, is it worth the party of a national MP of 1.500,000 dinars of citizens of the Republic of Serbia? I agree with my colleague Markovic – shame. The shame its finals will have tomorrow, when the vote is due, is a shame that they will probably be in one of the capital's cafes and collect all the impressions that came through a colleague who collected all the support she receives for the blatant spending of a million and a half dinars of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He won't be at the polls. The vote will include the assembly majority, SNS and respected coalition counterparts, and in some good cases by some opposition counterparts. Why not tell what's true? Never, when the amendments were to be "expunged" were to be voted on, were there. They had a lot of work to do, because they ended their mission – they spent, they burned, they threw out 1.500,000 dinars because of their advertising, without any solution, without any other response, the answer for which would make people in Serbia live better. Because of Mr Pavicevic's engagement, Mr Zivkovic, these pointless amendments make Serbian citizens poorer today by 1.500,000 dinars. He had to pay so much more in taxes somewhere. The economy had to separate more. People in Serbia had to give up. Some children in Serbia have lost their protection because of Mr Pavicevic and his advertising in the National Assembly. Once again, I'm undermining, so there's no confusion, teaching amendments is legitimate, legal work. We have done and we will do it, all the MPs, and there is no problem when someone offers a different solution, believing that this solution is better and we will debate, we will adopt and we will reject these amendments. I'm not talking about 70 and some amendments to how many other parliamentary groups have handed over. I'm talking about pointless amendments, it's getting wiped out. Is it possible that 1.5 million dinars cost Mr. Pavicevic to read the law? One million and a half dinars had to be set aside for Mr Pavicevic, who admitted to us today, at the beginning of the debate in particular, if he hadn't read the law, but this way, reading a member, on the cost of Serbian citizens, over the salary, over everything he receives, for 1.5 million will read these six laws. Too expensive. As the party's representative in a responsible manner towards public finances in Serbia, nine SNS members are members of the Finance Committee, I will ask Mr. Arsic, the chairman of the board, to hold a short course in the area of finance and banking to Mr. Pavic. You don't have to pay for anything. We don't have to burn those 1.5 million dinars. We could have sat on the board earlier and explained to Mr Pavicevic why these legal solutions are good and why it should not burn 1.5 million dinars in order to perform performance, to have fun today, at some point in time, so there have been countless times so far, and to go, not thinking that maybe the million and 500 thousand dinars could and had to do in a different, host, quality way to spend and to expect people from the National Assembly to expect solutions, not tires, to expect answers and a better life, not performance.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21803	The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21804	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovici, the Honored Guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milikiæ and Kokotovic, for the work of our National Assembly, I could never use the following terms: advertising, entertainment, or performance. In my work, in this National Assembly, I am constantly trying, and I also remind the MPs that in our constitutional system, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly is a central political institution. We repeat here, the sanctuary of political life. It is inappropriate and inappropriate to ask the question – how much it costs one day of the National Assembly meeting because behind this proposal, behind these questions, respected gentlemen, there is one other thing, the question – whether we need the Assembly, respected gentlemen, whether we need parliamentaryism here, whether we should cultivate a legal order here, or whether we should declare a sultanate here, so that there is no dialogue, so that there is no discussion, so that the citizens have no right, no opportunity to ask, nor propose, but that, according to the accelerated procedure, as the Sultan says, everything can pass in one day, in a few hours. Dear gentlemen, the central political institution, every word is measured here, every word enters the stenogram, and then there is the question of the responsibility of every MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21805	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21806	You know, when something doesn't want to be understood, then words will twist. I repeat, I respect every amendment that has been submitted, which offers another solution. I just imagined it over the periodical, three months ago, because somehow periodically and three months ago, it's kind of three months more exact, but when I'm offered a solution -- it's erased, erased, erased, then it's nothing else, but depravation of the sanctuary of democracy, such as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You don't need a harem or a sultan here. There is a need for dialogue here, but in order to conduct a dialogue, on the other hand, it is necessary to propose a solution, but to propose a solution that looks like performance, and also to say, there is no need to ask how much it costs. I can only say openly – yes, Mr. Pavicevic, I will not ask how much it costs, if you and your Mr. Zivkovic, of all that, from those vineyards and Beopetrol, which you have ruined, bring and pay at the register of the National Assembly 1.5 million dinars, then I will not ask how much it costs. Take it out of your pocket, bring it from what you put away for the dark days, so make your performances and don't ask what it costs, but if it's about the cost of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I'll ask every moment how much it costs, what it's gonna be paid for and what it's spent for, and for these performances it doesn't have to and can't be spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21807	The word is made by MP Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21808	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovici, the Honorable Guests, Mrs. Shuput and Mr. Milikic and Kokotovic, I would like to say three things in this replica. First, 25 amendments to this bill are part of the fight between the two of us, and I think more MPs for the values of constitutional democracy in our republic, gentlemen. Our amendments are part of a struggle to preserve the remains of parliamentaryism in our country, gentlemen. I think that instead of such sermons, you should appreciate these kinds of actions. Another thing, gentlemen, here are several MPs, and Mr Babic has now announced some instructions concerning Mr Zoran Zivkovic, one of the MPs. Dear gentlemen, wait for Mr. Zoran Zivkovic to return to this large hall, wait for him to sit here, and in his face to tell him what you have, not to tell Mr. Zivkovic in absentia what you have to say to him. The third thing, there was one way, respected gentlemen and respected presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, to shorten this debate today, to last somewhat shorter, although I am always interested in the debate. That is how he meant, gentlemen of honor, Mr Babic, first of all here, to report for the word, to stand up and say – gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was wrong to accept the inappropriate attitude of the executive authority towards us Members of the People's Parliament and the National Assembly. Today was a chance to correct that mistake, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21809	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21810	Now we've seen, I can't say I'm glad, I'm not looking at someone else's yard, that Mr Pavicevic is being fenced by another member of the New Party, by Mr Zivkovic. I see it as a divide in the New Party. Splits, splits from two in half, because I'm the third member of the New Party and I haven't heard, they say the rarity is in Serbia. He who finds a third member goes to his reward, his musical desire, whatever. But here I see that Mr. Pavicevic is not ready to defend all the indefensible things that Mr. Zivkovic has done in the past, and to me, it's just like a total break-up in the New Party. Whether the new one will be just new or new or super new or I don't know which one, but I see it as a total breakup in the New Party. On the other hand, in one thing we agree, the National Assembly is a sanctuary of democracy, a place where 250 MPs are elected by the electoral will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are the owners of their mandate, who have the right to think and to stand, are entitled to propose both laws and amendments and all that is provided for by the Constitution, the laws and the Rules of Procedure. But none of us have the right to make his promotion, for the sake of our performance, to make congregation bills without innkeepers, and then to use it as a bad argument, so they can't even matter how much it costs. I ask Mr Pavicevic if he is ready to pull out a million and a half dinars from his or his pocket every time he makes these performances and harasses and defiles the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21811	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Widow and Honored Guests, Mrs Shuput, Mr Milikic and Mr Kokotovic, are two things I wish to now declare to the respected gentlemen, above all to Mr Babic, but also to the other gentlemen, ladies of the People's Parliaments, gentlemen. First of all, I am very sorry that the New Party today could not fully participate in the debate on these amendments, gentlemen. If we were in full composition, this would be an even better debate. Perhaps Mrs. Tabakovic would accept another amendment, perhaps Mrs. Udovici would accept another amendment, dear gentlemen. As you know, at the beginning of every session of our assembly I struggle here to work in full composition but it is not possible in this assembly with this majority unfortunately. The second thing, following this presentation by Mr Babic, is that I am fully aware that here in this assembly majority, the values of constitutional democracy are not understood. If, for example, The head of the advanced majority here does not know that one respected law professor, Professor Vesna Rakić Vednelic, who has been fighting for the values of constitutional democracy, President of the New Party Council, and that is one of our most important bodies, then I understand that in his actions in this Assembly Mr Babic does not show any commitment to these values to constitutional democracy. I'm sorry it's like that and you've seen it around here today. If that's what you've seen and if so, let's change it, Mr. Babic, to introduce these elements to the respected president of the National Assembly to be a true parliamentary democracy, not a vision of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21813	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21814	I use the parliamentary group's time to explain the support for the amendment submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, which refers to Article 24. The amendment is to be deleted. The explanation will be an illustration that it is easier to discuss amendments when the amendment is read. It is not mandatory, but it can be easier, because a member of the bill requiring erasure reads - the date of application of this law ceases to apply the Deposit Insurance Act, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No 61/05, 116/08 and 91/10. I think this whole law is bad, and if there is an amendment that some colleagues have submitted, including colleagues Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, which I would vote for, then it is this amendment, because I want it to remain in force by the law that is currently in force. Any other could be an amendment that deletes a member, unless the overall idea of not wanting such a law in the legal system in Serbia is understood for discussion. But it's not too bad to read about what kind of member it is before we get carried away by all the oratoric skills that we don't really want to talk about at all about an amendment that requires the removal of a member who determines the termination of the Deposit Insurance Act. Without doubting that the Bill on Deposit Insurance will pass with the members as proposed, it is our obligation to remind ourselves that the argument we have given against the amendments and addition of the Ministry Act and against this, and especially against the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, is not an argument that we will remind you in a few months with words – did we not tell you, as we are not doing for a completely wrong, even more aggressive defense of the abolition of the Environmental Protection Fund, which we will return to the legal system according to the action plan. I don't want to say - this law should have stayed. The idea is not good, it is one time, but my goal is to help the MPs who feel that they can, without reading the bill and the article to which the amendment applies, without reading the amendments, act convincingly, do not act. They seem offensive, but a man's style. Anyone who talks about themselves is talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21815	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21816	The professional and human qualities of someone who is not here with us in the National Assembly are not fair, nor gentlemanly talk, so I do not want to and cannot talk about Mrs. Vodnelic, because I am not that kind of profession that I can talk about professional capacities and qualities. In any case, about every man in Serbia whether he's a political or a member of a party, I think they speak the highest and best results when he's entrusted with a job to do, not because of party flags that we don't love or that we have any other feelings for those who don't wear colors or don't like or support the colors of our club. Anyway, I wanted to say two things. Since the vice president of the New Party informed us with great effort on the third party, but the fourth, fifth, sixth, the seventh will be Tantalus's torment, I do not want to expose him to Tantal's torments, but since he told the third member of the New Party I am ready to take Mr Pavićev to lunch here at the assembly restaurant on my expense, because he met and told the third member of the party. I will also not mention it at lunch, but I will mention it every time this number of amendments are removed – it is proposed to the National Assembly and thus desecrate the sanctuary of democracy, to ask him if he is ready tomorrow because of the performance he has exposed us to, is he ready to extract from the funds of those three members of the New Party a million and five hundred thousand dinars and bring them up to compensate for the costs that Serbia's budget and citizens are exposed to because of its performance?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21817	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21818	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this case I would be against this amendment, because I believe that the previous solution is in the case of this Serbian government not very well. By this law, this proposal seeks to increase the independence of the Agency itself and the law itself, in accordance with the agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank, to bring it into line with this, but in the case of a proposal by Mr Pavicevic, which is deleted and in the case of all other members, it would mean that the law remains in force. This would not be in line with the opinion of all relevant factors that Vucic's government has great confidence, i.e., it is almost certain that neither citizens nor world creditors trust the government of the Republic of Serbia and what it does. The proof of this is the state of our economy, the state of our finances, which can no longer be justified by some former governments from three and more years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21819	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I will ask you to ask Mr. Martinovic if he would adopt this amendment, which is roughly like this -- this requires special training, special academic skills, this is not easy to write -- so the text of the amendment reads like this, but if we adopt it and delete Article 24, Madam Chairman, to ask Mr. Martinovic, would there be two laws in that case? Here is the argument, and I ask Mr. Martinovic to listen, so that by adopting this member, he will remain in force of the old law. However, it literally states: “On the day of the start of application of this law, which is April 1st, the Deposit Insurance Act ceases to apply. ” If we were to adopt this amendment, this would mean that this would be deleted, and on April 1st, the law would be old and new. I'm not a doctor, I'm not that academically decent to become one, but I'm asking Mr. Martinovic to remove this legal dilemma. If we adopt this amendment, in my opinion, there would be two laws in force on April 1st. Because if we had adopted Article 25 and this law in full, and the day of the application of this law ceases to apply the Deposit Insurance Act, before, two laws would be applied in such a situation and I don't know what kind of law enforcement would be, since I'm not a doctor, if I wasn't academically honest. That's why I think it's okay for fellow Martinovic to explain this legal dilemma to us if such a smart and meaningful amendment was adopted in this sanctuary, to whom he should be treated as a sanctuary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21821	The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21822	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and Honored Guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milikic and Mr Kokotovic, is a member of the 25th Amendment of the Law, I think the strong evidence that Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I were right when we submitted 25 amendments to the vote - is deleted, on 25 members of this bill. Here is what it says, gentlemen, "This law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", and it has been applied since 1 April 2015. So it'll be another two months to start applying the provisions of this law. “ On the day of the start of application of this law, ” says the article, “the old law ceases to apply. ” So on April 1st, the old law will cease to apply. If all this starts to apply on April 1, 2015, gentlemen, then why did we have to take urgent action here today to discuss it? Could we have given to the MPs, to ourselves here, for another 10 days to read carefully, to offer some serious changes to the contents of this bill and all the other six draft laws, so that we can be safe here, gentlemen, that these are the most qualitative laws? Watch out, article 25 on the logic of things, I think, every MP here who's been in a dilemma about whether to accept these amendments or not in the voting day, I think he should avoid these dilemmas and surely we're here, to say the least, to accept these ones, because this doesn't make any sense, April 1st, and the National Bank even since 1st of July, honored gentlemen. What's the emergency procedure for, Mr. Granny? Regular procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21823	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the third item of the agenda – the proposal for a FACILITY AND LIQUIDATION OF BANKS AND CERTIFICATES. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The names Glava 1 and Article 1 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21824	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovic and the Honored Guests, Mrs. Shuput, Mr. Milikic and Mr. Kokotovic, where I stood in the wake of the previous bill in our debate, here I have to be committed to the amendment debate on the draft law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. In Article 1, gentlemen, here is what says: “This law regulates the terms and procedures of bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, insurance companies and financial leasers. ” So in this article we have one reference to what this law does. It's obviously important matter. Since article 37 of this law, which is the final member of this law, writes that it too begins to apply on 1 April 2015, honourable gentlemen, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I felt it is our duty to react here with the amendment – is deleted, above all, at the request of the Government, and to accept the assembly majority here, that something which, as a law, will be applied from 1 April 2015, here in the National Assembly, we must adopt in two or three days an emergency procedure. Following an emergency procedure, a law governing issues and dealings can be passed following circumstances that could not be foreseen. This isn't the case. "And the passing of laws by emergency procedure could cause adverse effects on the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of organs and organisations" – this is not the case here. Further: "As well as to fulfil international obligations and compliance with EU law" – this is not the case. Gentlemen, we have no parliamentary assumptions that we are doing this. I ask you to imagine once again, that we reject these laws and force the government to send this here by regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21825	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the esteemed president of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, I am now a little laughy by the MPs of the SNS, I must say here, which is fine with me, we must bring some and humor here, we cannot just listen to some other kind of speech, but, with a measure, and respected Mrs Udovic and respected guests, Mrs Šput, Mr Milikiæ and Mr Kokotovic, Zoran Zivkovic and I suggest that the contents of Article 2 of this Bill be deleted. I noticed that amongst the MPs there are those who have already thought a little bit about my argument for – it is deleted, for Article 1. Here, I look at the MPs now, and I notice a kind of approval, not just with the MPs, but, above all, with the citizens of our Republic. And we have to here to all the MPs, who may still be a little bit pictured about whether these are strong arguments, which may have fear, woe, whether to oppose the Government, whether we can do this here as MPs, I have to offer here an additional argument concerning, respected gentlemen, certain principles and certain principles that we should adhere to here. Here, gentlemen, Chapters 3, 4, 5 and 6. Chapter 2. The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, everything envisaged by our Rules of Procedure, gentlemen, is foreseen. We don't have to write new rules. It's just enough to stick to the existing one, so we have one reading in the Assembly, in the regular procedure, Mr. Babic, so the conclusions on the committees and on the first reading, and the second reading, and the second reading, and the third reading, and the conclusions, gentlemen, and to make sure that by 1 April, when this law begins, we really get the best possible law, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21827	Thank you. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21828	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President, Mrs Gojkovic, the esteemed Mrs Udovic and the esteemed guests, Mrs Shuput, Mr Kokotovic, may I change this order a little bit, and Mr Milikiæ, here, you see, here the people of the Government, our guests also receive occasional applause, which is fine, these are valuable people, are closely following the debate, and, as far as I am concerned, accept, even in themselves, some sort of argument or part of the argument that I am making here, unfortunately, because Mr Zoran Zivkovic was not allowed to enter the Great Hall of our National Assembly today. We agreed this morning and I noticed that here we have the agreement of all the MPs that it is good for citizens to have the opportunity to hear about the laws we are discussing and the ones we adopt here. That is why I will use these two minutes, honourable presidents, to read to the citizens what is foreseen by Article 3 and which will start to apply on 1 April 2015. So this year, dear gentlemen. He says, "The winding-up procedure against the bank and the insurance company is being initiated by the competent court on the initiation of the liquidation procedure, which is brought on the basis of a decision by the National Bank of Serbia on the fulfilment of the conditions for the initiation of the liquidation procedure against the bank, or the insurance company." Once again here to remind the People's MPs, we might not be able to discuss the amendments "is deleted", that the government, in the name of the Government, was first and foremost Mr Vujovic, and then Mrs Udovici, today, followed the regular procedures and respected the MPs and the National Assembly, respected Members of the People's Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21829	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21830	Madam President, Madam Minister, I see the amendment promoter is having a lot of fun. I am glad, but even if I were to entertain myself on my expense, not on the cost of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and if I were to save a million and a half dinar as a society and as a Assembly, and not spend a million and a half dinars, I would have fun, too, but we see people who are concerned, sitting in the National Assembly and only one who is having fun with it, being "expunged". Three readings are required, and the amendment promoter is not ready for either, and he is looking for three readings. However, unlike the promoter, I will talk about the amendment. It is good that the amendment promoter has managed to read Article 3 whose erasure requires, but I am taking this opportunity, Madam President, to ask you a question from the amendment's promoter. Since it predicts that the winding-up procedure against banks and insurance companies, as stated here in the Law, triggers a solution by the competent court and Mr Pavicevic requests the removal of that member, and who will launch the liquidation of banks and insurance companies? Who wants to start that liquidation? Will the liquidations be in the future? I wish there weren't, but there will be. Who's going to run if not the court? Is that what Mr. Pavicevic wants for a society that will be totalitarian, despotic? Yes, for example, Mr. Zivkovic, one-third of the New Party, brings a solution and assumes the role of the court? I don't see any alternative. I have strong faith in the independence of the judiciary. I believe in the reformed judiciary, which will be judged either by the grandmother or by the uncles, according to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I believe in the independent judiciary as an independent branch of the government, and I believe in the solution provided for in Article 3, that the process of liquidation of the bank and the insurance company is being initiated by the competent court to launch the liquidation procedure, not that such a role, which is important, takes over, say, the amendment promoter, Mr Pavicevic for Mr Zivkovic. Because if the liquidation doesn't trigger the court, and the amendment promoter didn't say who would run it, I guess he's taking that role for himself. Please, Madam President, ask the amendment promoter - does he have any idea and knowledge of what it is to liquidate banks, who it is to run, does he in this way an independent branch of government, such as the judiciary, hit hard, and that pillar of our society ensnars with such amendments and such proposals, without giving an alternative?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21831	Does Ambassador Pavicevic want to answer? (No) The word has a People's Messenger, Nejo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21832	I thank you, President. Dear Minister, respected ministry representatives, I have to rely solely legally on the presentation of my colleague Babic. Given that this amendment is legally unacceptable, I doubt that we have made a mistake on the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs. The mistake is that we did not accept the proposal of our colleague Petrovic, as chairman of the Committee on Justice and State Administration. A mistake in accepting this amendment is incurring a breach of the legal system. If it is affected by a breach of the legal system, then the procedural consequence is that the amendment is inadmissible or illegal. The obvious mistake of our board we'll never make again. Since the amendments went the way they did, we allowed today to experience terror, literally being hostages of amendments that are absolutely unauthorized. Does this mean, when I have already said that it is a violation of the legal system, that the adoption of this amendment directly eliminates the Law on the jurisdiction of courts and evicts the Court of Justice, which is the sole jurisdiction to conduct bankruptcy proceedings against banks? If that's true, and it is true, then we come to a big problem that all amendments, which relate especially to the provisions of the Bank's bankruptcy law and insurance companies, are absolutely unauthorized. Unfortunately, the price of our mistake is to endure the reasons for the amendments we should not suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21833	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21834	Dear President, I am reporting as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I'm at least surprised by the discussion of the previous speaker. He has now practically said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives voted in line with the Constitution and the legal system, some amendments that are not. We must have an urgent session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to clarify this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21835	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21836	Dear Presidents, honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, of course I am in favour of rejecting this amendment because it makes no sense, it is not meaningful and unwarranted to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, gentlemen of the MPs, by rejecting this amendment from all the laws of this set of laws, it does not contribute to the consolidation of the country's financial stability, and what can be negatively reflected, gentlemen, on economic growth, unless we really adopt these laws, as Mr Pavicevic and his colleagues suggest. What do we get? That's why we'll have cases of Agrobanks, Vojvodina Development Banks and other banks. You see, gentlemen, why Mr Pavicevic advocates that all members are deleted from the bill. Because that suits him and his party president, which in the old regime, in the former regime his party president damaged Serbia's budget in the first wave by only 530,000 euros, just because he took that money to germinate the vine on the grass and damage, respected Serbian citizens, your pockets. That's why, respected citizens, you deleted them very well, and I believe that in the next election you will wipe them out. Not only that, I call on certain authorities to process themselves and to return the money from Serbian citizens' pockets to the pockets of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21837	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21838	Madam President, the Honorable Representation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, since several times during the day my name has been mentioned regarding participation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives' work, I feel obliged to say two or three sentences, and I am pleased that my esteemed colleague, Neđo Jovanovic, realized after one 15 days that he was right with me about 10, 15 days ago. But the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has made the decision it has made and there it has decided by majority of the votes of the Committee members present and no one has the right to change the Committee's decisions now. In my opinion, that's how it is, and I then suggested at the session, given that if someone suggests that out of 100 members, all 100 members should be deleted, it is not an amendment to improve the text of the law. The amendment is a means of affecting the improvement of the text of the law. I thus understand the work of this National Assembly as a national MP chosen by a certain group of citizens who went to the elections and voted for it. If someone wants a law not to apply it simply in Article 1 where it is said, in every law that regulates it, they can say "wipe" that article. If the Assembly accepted that member, it was more illogically discussed about all the other members, because they were without the subject and could not be accepted. Therefore, I think that in the future we should consider all the amendments a little more seriously and see, because someone mentioned it then on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs and the Constitutional Court's assessment. Come on, let's make a decision, and let's wait two or three years, the Constitutional Court will make a decision on how to make it, and we certainly won't return retroactively, so we can reconsider these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21839	Thank you. At the title of Chapter 2, Section 1 and Article 4 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21840	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovic and the Honored Guests, Mrs. Shuput and Mr. Milekic and Kokotovic, I understand that now, and for the sake of our amendment to Article 4 of this bill, there is one suspicion that there would be a breach of the legal procedure to adopt this amendment, namely that one of the Assembly Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Legislativeity, which was spoken of by Nejko Jovanovic here earlier, could have been a serious mistake. Dear gentlemen, I do not understand this kind of reasoning now because the amendment -- it is deleted, there can be no breach of the legal system unless we disagree that in the time preceding the application of this law, there is a continuing breach of the legal system. If you're constantly respected gentlemen, there's a breach of the legal system, then that means that we live here in an unsettled state. If we live in an unsettled state, then it is indeed a question of dictating the remains of our parliamentaryism and the legal order, gentlemen, not the legal justification of an amendment to one of the draft laws. Then the confirmation of what I am saying is also found in Article 36 of this bill, which states that the day of the application of this law ceases to apply to the law on the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies. That means there's no harm to the legal procedure, gentlemen. There's no violation of the law. We return because of the government's error in what is the previous state, with the possibility that, in the ordinary procedure, by April 1st, we will once again discuss all the members of this bill and then, gentlemen, adopt the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21841	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21842	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we haven't heard anything about the amendment itself again, about the reasons why we should delete this member of the law. I propose that this amendment be rejected and at the same time I join the reasoning of the Serbian government which does not accept this amendment. But I would like to point out once again, Madam Chairman, and to repeat, even though we have said it several times, the SNS has no objection and it does not mind to accept meaningful amendments. Amendments that will produce some positive effect. Amendments that will serve to repair some laws. But this isn't the case, and we've found a good will several times and demonstrated in this conference. We cannot accept such an amendment that I personally consider to be playing with the law, playing with the Assembly, but also playing with the citizens of Serbia. Please, let us refuse this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21843	The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21844	Thank you. Very briefly, I would like to join the proposal that the amendment be rejected, and also since the amendment promoter has on several occasions raised a loud question about the dynamics of the adoption of this law, I would like to refer it to page 14, section 5 of the material that we have received from the promoter. In addition, if the same text is too substitutable to be sought up to page 14, it is in the Government’s reply to the amendment under regular number 1. That's where they are and all the answers to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21845	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honorable Guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milekic and Kokotovic, here is one MP from the Progressive Party who suggests that we skip the explanation of at least one amendment, but, gentlemen, I don't think that would be appropriate to what we agreed here today. And we agreed this morning at 10.00 a.m. when the debate began, and Mr. Neđo Jovanovic has also nodded his head, and I have seen the MPs from other parliamentary groups that it is okay for citizens to know what is written in all the members of each bill and that this debate today is an opportunity. What citizens need to know and I state as an additional argument for the basic argument that I have already offered and for this amendment to this article of the law is the following. I do not agree with Mr Petrovic when he says – here, most of them have decided. Dear gentlemen, democracy is not just the principle of the majority. Democracy implies that the majority is also limited by certain rules, regulations, procedures and rights. Well, there can't be a majority in any of the committees of our National Assembly, nor in this great hall to declare that the country is a flat plate and then let's say so, so most of us also said that we treat the country as a flat plate. It can't, gentlemen, long ago democracy has stopped being the will of the majority, only the will of the people, but it is called constitutional democracy, because those who rule, who have most have some kind of restriction here in the Rules of Procedure, in the Law on the National Assembly, above all respected gentlemen, in the Constitution of our Republic, which is clearly not respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21847	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21848	Respected presidents, respected government representatives, just so there is no confusion for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the scientific public, as the previous speaker said that democracy is not only the decision of the majority, I remind him, he is a young, still docent, and is seen by students and fellow professors. Democracy is a majority decision with respect to minority rights. It's a definition generally accepted throughout the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21849	Thank you. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21850	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovici, of course honored guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milikic and Mr Kokotovic, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 6 of this Bill, which we propose to delete the contents of this article, and here, above all, I must respond now and to Mr Atlagic's performance. It's not that, gentlemen, I mean, a sufficient definition of what constitutional democracy is and what we're supposed to fight for here. Constitutional democracy involves some decision-making of the majority, of course respect for minority rights and respect for certain general rights, but respected gentlemen, and respect for rules, regulations and procedures, and this in our particular case, in view of this bill, means that this bill should have been reached in accordance with Article 154 of the Law. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in which it writes - the draft law drawn up in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly's session within not less than 15 days from the date of its submission, and all of these, respected gentlemen, especially in the light of Article 37 of this Proposal of the Law, which provides that when the law is adopted, gentlemen, from 1 April 2015. Isn't it clear to everyone here that there was no basis for urgency, that we had time to further devote ourselves, that each individual here is making an effort to repair the contents of each member, so that we really discuss...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21851	Is there anything more specific about the amendment? We've learned this lesson.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21852	We didn't. I have to say here because...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21853	We have learned everything, if you can do anything about the solution to meeting the conditions for launching the bankruptcy procedure referred to in Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21854	It's about Article 154 of our Rules of Procedure. There is no dilemma for me and to admit it here, Mr. Babic, to accept that he was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21855	Thank you very much, we understand everything, if you can be specific about the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21856	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovici, and the Honored Guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milikic and Kokotovic, I will, of course, now respect this intervention of the President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, whom I understand in the following way. So, it is very important, and this is what we agreed on this morning, that our citizens who keep reporting and saying – we are interested in the content of these bill proposals, to hear what is foreseen by the members of this bill and what procedure it is adopted, and what procedure is discussed in the National Assembly. In Article 7 of this proposal, the law states - the competent court is obliged to set a deadline which cannot be shorter than 30 days or longer than 90 days from the date of publication of the notice of initiation of the bankruptcy procedure in the “Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia”, in which the trustee may report his secured and unsecured claims. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, we now see the content of article 7 of this bill, we have proposed to delete, for two reasons now here, one inappropriate approach, I think of the Serbian Government as regards the debate on this bill proposal, and then, watch out now, and here in this article writes - a certain deadline concerning the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings cannot be shorter than 30 days or longer than 90 days, and the Government is sending us seven draft laws, which concern such important matters, to discuss all this here in two days, with the risks of adopting something and which does not stand, gentlemen. I'm just asking to think about it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21857	Thank you. On behalf of Section 2 and Article 8 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21858	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovici, and the Honorable Guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milikic and Mr Kokotovic, we feel that Article 8 of this Bill should be amended and we have offered one of our basic arguments in the amendment to Article 1 why this member should be changed, and I now, the Honored Presidents, want to offer another argument that we have not sent in writing, and I think it may be important for the MPs, above all, to the Progressive Party. We have received, all the MPs here and one draft of a report, which will be discussed by the MEPs in March, the respected National Assembly presidents, who among other things, Mr Babic, also concern the procedures we serve in the National Assembly. Many amendments have been tabled to this draft, as far as I know, but apparently there will be one major objection to our work in that report. I take it as a criticism to myself, even though I did not participate in it, but I am part of this legislative body, that an inappropriately large number of draft laws are sent to this Assembly by inappropriate procedure in terms of the importance of these draft laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21859	I ask you, MP, to be understood by your citizens, as you address them, to explain to us the organs of the bankruptcy proceedings.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21860	I'm explaining it, and it's about the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21861	My neighbor's most interested in it. Believe me. She's just a citizen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21862	We have now come to Article 8. This article 8 is a little bit more extensive so that I can read to both neighbours and other citizens and citizens, but they are certainly interested in the European Parliament's assessment, just this. What now when the European Parliament adopts the report in March and says – here is how laws are adopted in the legislative body. Then what shall we say to these gentlemen, dear gentlemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21863	The word is Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21864	This is one of the amendments to the Serbian judicial system by Mr Pavicevic and the promoter of this amendment, to the administration of the judicial system because I would like to ask the Proposer or Madam President if you would ask him, as you have tried before, and I agree with your neighbour, whom Mr Pavicic is interested in the answer. If by eradicating the authorities and the bankruptcy proceedings aren't a bankruptcy judge, a bankruptcy manager and a trustee committee, who is it? In what way? What solution does Mr Pavicevic offer, not to tell us some things that have nothing to do with the amendment, rather than to tell us and give us solutions that are done by ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's People's Handling Serbia's Justice System, one of the pillars of our country? Unless we have confidence in the judiciary, unless we have confidence in bankruptcy judges, unless we trust them and they're given that job that both the Constitution and the law are supposed to give them, that means destroying this state, which is the amendment's proposal. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the adjudication of our state's judicial system, and I ask you to insist on your answer because I am sure that the amendment promoter does not have an answer, because it was neither a desire nor a heart to give answers, but rather to do so with Serbia's judicial system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21865	The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21866	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the esteemed Mrs Udovicski and the esteemed guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milikic and Kokotovic, are two things I now wish to say in this replica, the esteemed president, Mr Babic. First of all, I am a teacher in college who is often in a position to ask a question, but esteemed president, I have to say it here, I never ask a question with hope that the one to whom the question is asked will not know the answer to that question. I guess the idea of talking about it is to know the answers to the questions, that some students, students, and even in some conversation, to know what, to have some knowledge, not to ask the question as Mr Babic has now done with the desire not to know the answer to that question. I consider it an inappropriate approach, but we can discuss it. Second thing, here's to answering Mr. Babic. I think I have an answer to that question. I think I know what the answer is. If Mr Babic, on behalf of our amendment to Article 8, says that if the adoption is deleted, the contents of Article 8 shall be deleted. So, untiling the judicial branch of power in our country, then for me, the respected presidents would mean that this branch of government has already been docked, because in Article 36, it's fine that we have one law that regulates this area, that there are judicial restrictions dealing with this area, gentlemen. If we accept Mr Babic's argument, then we actually find out that there is no justice system here, because the amendment "is deleted" cannot remove what exists, which means we can't even get past the judicial branch of the government. If we accept Mr. Babic's argument, and if that's true, then let's really think about it further, there's no justice here, gentlemen. Is that true?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21867	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21868	Is it appropriate for me to perform where I expect answers from one who does not have answers and one answer is "to be deleted", I will leave for the right Mr. Pavicevic to think, but in any case only qualified the appropriate or inappropriate approach has taken us away from the answer we did not get from Mr. Pavicevic. If the authorities of the bankruptcy proceedings will not be a bankruptcy judge, the bankruptcy manager and trustee committee, Mr Pavicevic did not say who would be, he said that such a question is inappropriate on my part. I'll answer another question. I got the answer for which I knew what it would be like. I'll give you an answer to that dodging. If so, it is done by those people sitting in front of you by reforming the 2008 and 2009 judiciary, where the judges were dismissed, and the judges accepted by political membership, the birthline, the judicial reform organised by Snezana Malovic and colleagues from home and the former regime for which both the EU and the European Commission and whoever in the international public and the domestic public said and had a negative relationship with the reform of the judiciary. Why are you looking at SNS? Well, those people with whom you shared the same values, they've narrowed down the justice system of this country. It is up to us, as with public finances, and with the judiciary, and with all the other pillars of our society, to raise them from the ashes, from the ashes that you and people like you brought them to, who shared the values of the former regime. Why are you looking at us? We also have trouble with public finances that you are attacking with the return of a million and a half dinars each day with your performances "expunge". We're also suffering from a judicial system that you've completed and abolished a reformosis that no one has ever had a good word for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21869	Deputy Prime Minister Dr. Korri Udovici asked me to hold a very important meeting, which has been delayed all day, so we'll have a break from 17.15 to 1800 hours. We'll continue work at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21870	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. On behalf of Section 3, the name Subsection 3.1 and Article 9 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovic, and Vice President of the National Assembly, respected Mrs Udovic and the Honored Guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milekic and Kokotovic, have been talking here all day about three very important things, I think, the content of the bill coming into the National Assembly, the way these laws are adopted and the relationship between the government, the executive authority in our country to our National Assembly. I mean, honored Members of the People's Parliament, that there are now no MPs who are not absolutely clear that our amendment is being deleted, among other things, and this member of the bill is responding to the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which rests on the idea that the Assembly depends on the government. I think it's very good that during this debate today we have convinced ourselves, so we have all received it as a kind of knowledge, information, that the matter does not stand, but that the government depends on the will of the MPs in this assembly. So, the government depends on the Assembly and each representative, each meeting with any representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is an opportunity for us, gentlemen, to question them a little bit, to see how things are and to warn them if we notice that there is some approach and action that deserves criticism. Of course, the most important thing is Article 154 concerning the procedure for sending the bill to the Assembly, the talks on the bill, and finally the vote. We are asking here to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and to consider the adoption of amendments is deleted on Article 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21872	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under Subsection 3.2 and Article 10 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under Subsection 3.3 and Article 11 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The names of Subsection 3.4 and Article 12 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under Subsection 3.5 and Article 13 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21873	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenović, respected Mrs Udovici and, of course, honored guest, Mrs Shuput and guests, Mr Milekic and Kokotovic, Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted the amendment to Article 13 of this proposal of the law and, in relation to the basic explanation that we have made very fine in writing to Article 1 of this proposal, which we later call upon other amendments. Here I just want to add two arguments which, in my court, are very important to understand what we are discussing today in the Assembly. One thing concerns some standards of action in the legislative body. This morning, I have cited here the example of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, gentlemen, who rests on the fact that when a bill comes to the European Parliament that MPs approach first reading, then define conclusions, then second reading, then defining conclusions, then third reading, and defining conclusions, and finally, gentlemen, to adopting the final version of the text. While it is enough for us to have the Government refer to the Assembly, by emergency procedure, draft laws, here it is adopted without much thought and debate, and after two, three days, after the first reading we have passed laws. We believe that MPs should respond to this practice, so that not all of us, who are MPs in the National Assembly, suffer the relevant criticisms that follow us in the European Parliament's report, which will certainly be adopted in March of the month in Strasbourg, in the European Parliament, where they will resent the legislative body for this approach to the adoption of the law. We, MPs, should react to the inappropriate practice of the Serbian government, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21874	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Under Subsection 3.5 and Article 14 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21875	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, representatives of the ministry, I would like to ask you, after a longer debate, which did not have adequate arguments, to finally come up with an amendment that no doubt merits attention. It is our sincere, well-intentioned intention to improve the quality of the law, so the MP's SPS group, motivated by this goal, found it appropriate for the Deposit Insurance Agency, which is in accordance with the provisions of the law to be a bankruptcy body or a bankruptcy process, to give another additional authority. What's this about? It's about disprovement of legal affairs and the legal actions of a creditor, which are banks. When do legal acts and legal dealings get refuted? They must be full-time, no doubt, but they fight if they threaten the equality and evenness of the trustee's payment. Which means, if one of the trustees puts himself in a more favourable position than others, that's a basis for killing, uncontested. But we have responded with the amendment by thinking that there should not only be a reason for putting in a more favourable position, but also for cause and cause of harm. Given that we have experienced many cases in practice, we have had so many experiences with banks that have just caused their creditors to become very, very unfortunate and "Vojvodine Development Bank" and "Universal Bank", "Agrobank", who knows which bank yet. Here, in the light of the amendments, Madam Minister, if you would just allow me to explain, it states that there is sufficient proper application of the provisions of the Banks Act, but I will draw your attention only to Article 119. The bankruptcy law which speaks precisely of the situation that these reasons for disproving legal actions are both for damages and for actions and jobs taken prior to the opening of bankruptcy. So I ask you to put this reason for dissent into the law by accepting our amendment, because that way we will avoid unequal court practice, protect the creditors. Every citizen expects protection from us, and we have to give that citizen protection. It is an optimal protection by adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21876	Thank you. The word has a minister, Cory Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21877	As explained briefly in the reasoning that this amendment is being rejected, the government considers that the fundamental intention of this amendment is absolutely already respected by other provisions of the Banks Act. So that this type of attitude would actually be another repetition, and as soon as there's a repetition there's a risk for someone, so to say multiple or misunderstanding in the interpretation. Therefore, in any case, the intention is correct, and it is only about the legal means in which they are realised best.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21878	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Under the name of Subsections 3 and 7 and Article 15, the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Section 4 and Article 15, the amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is a folk messenger, Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Arsenovicu, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and, of course, honored guests, first guest Šput and guests, Mr Milikic and Kokotovic, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I feel that the contents of this article should also be deleted in relation to the basic argument, which I think is clear to every MP here, because we have not only read this explanation for our amendments "be deleted", but we have also discussed this argument for many hours today. I just want to add two things that can be significant for the further course of our debate. One thing is, the amendment "is deleted", can be a very meaningful amendment and today, gentlemen, it has shown itself in two ways. First, by reviewing a number of MPs about the content of the draft law sent to the Assembly by the Government, and by, for example, Ms Tabakovic, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, on behalf of the National Bank, accepted our two amendments, which read "is deleted". “ There comes then the other side of the argument of this amendment, gentlemen of ours. Be careful, when we agree here to delete one bad content or to erase the bad approaches and how to send it to the House of Law, then erasure is always a good mechanism respected gentlemen. Just to remind the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, there is no need to be afraid, we have submitted about 1,000 amendments so far to Zoran Zivkovic and I, of which 21 were adopted, and of these 186 we have submitted for these seven draft laws are adopted two. We can't say we're satisfied, but it's going a little forward, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21880	Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The names Section 5, Section 5.1 and Article 19 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1st of the amendment, National MPs Neđo Jovanovic submitted. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21881	I thank the chairman, Your Honor, for this amendment, we have tried to contribute to something that I find very important, and that is to protect the interests of the trustees, as well as to protect the bankruptcy. For what? Because of our amendment, we have predicted that the costs of Article 1 are actually paid monthly, but in line with the dynamics of the inflow of funds, which is, in any case, a significant role of the bankruptcy manager and making sure that the conduct of operations in the bankruptcy process is not compromised. Which are operations in bankruptcy proceedings, of course these are primarily business related to the accumulation of bankruptcy, i.e. defined bankruptcy mass, its protection, the management of bankruptcy and, of course, the security of trustees by cashing in the bankruptcy mass, i.e. the property of banks in the most efficient way possible. I will ask you, regardless of this explanation as it is given, once again to look at the meaning of this amendment, and especially given why I ask all the MPs in this Assembly when the explanation of the third final amendment of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, to pay particular attention to the situation where any of us MPs, or citizens, can be found. For now, I will leave this reason or explanation as it is, and with the third amendment, I will give a complete explanation which is related to the motivation of this amendment and supplement what is given in the written form of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21882	Thank you. On behalf of Subsection 5.2 and Article 20 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21883	Thank you. Dear Minister, honourable MPs, respected representatives of the ministry, dear fellow Members of mine, I would ask you to pay attention to our amendment, amendment of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, for one reason any of us, can find ourselves in a situation covered by this amendment. What's this about? The deposit insurance agency is the bankruptcy manager of bankruptcy in banks. Any one of us can get into a situation where he deposits cash in banks. Banks are required to secure our deposits no matter how much money we pay, little or much, there is always an obligation to secure our deposits. Secured sums of banks pay the Agency and that's not disputed. In case the bank where we deposited our money goes bankrupt in that situation, the Deposit Insurance Agency is obliged to pay us the cash. The reminders are worth 50,000 euros. But I don't see the problem. We will see the problem in another situation that comes after that, dear colleagues and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is about the fact that when the bank pays off an insurance sum of 50,000 euros, it becomes a trustee for whom it has paid 50,000 euros, which we rightly call a subrogation and has unfortunately, I will reiterate, unfortunately, a priority over other creditors to collect their claim. Priority to collect the claim along with the cost of bankruptcy. That priority, this advantage is in line with the provisions of the Bank Act, clashing with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because any one of us, Neđa, Goca, Mira, will be in a situation of imbalance. We're in an unequal position with the Agency then. The Agency can't charge more than we can and can't charge before us, because if it's charged, it'll be charged 100%. What's to be left for us as trustees? What are we going to collect our claims from? It's a dispute all the time. What is also important to point out is the fact that in this situation we have an injury and the objectives of bankruptcy proceedings and the principle of bankruptcy proceedings. The basic principle of bankruptcy is the equality and equality of the trustee. The deposit insurance agency is just a bankruptcy trustee and nothing more, like all of us together. Why would she have benefit? Why would she be given a favored role? Absolutely inadmissible, regardless of the ministry's comments, absolutely inadmissible. In addition, it is unacceptable to place two burdens on the burden of bankruptcy. What's the bank paying the cash for? For what? So the bank's assets would be paid first for the cash, and then the bank would pay for the Agency's claims. Well, then we're in an absurd situation. Fifty thousand euros, received by the trustee, will only get one share if the deposit is much more money. Those who have deposited funds in large amounts will be charged very little. Those who have deposited funds in small amounts will be charged a lot. It's kind of a total paradox to me. Secondly, Madam Minister, there is also a fund that is made out of paid cash, from the secured amounts paid by the bank forming just for use, which is why bankruptcy is burdened, not burdened by the fund. So another absurdity which makes this amendment appear as necessary. The Agency's claim shall be paid before the main division, together with the costs incurred by the Agency in the payment process of the secured amount of deposits. Be careful, before the main division. It is something that can be very, very bad for citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the financial sense of words, as well as for the owners of small, medium-sized enterprises of entrepreneurs. Furthermore, what should also be pointed out is that the Deposit Insurance Agency first collects the insurance premium in order to ensure that, after the opening of the bankruptcy and the bankruptcy of the business bank, it has a priority and that the priority is realised by charging the amount of the secured deposits paid at all costs of the bankruptcy procedure so that payment of the insurance premium no doubt reduces the bankruptcy mass. If this isn't true, I don't know what else could be a better reason to adopt such an amendment. Furthermore, what is very important is that we must bear in mind the fact that the Universal Bank at Agrobank, the Regional Development Bank, will have many creditors who will have this very status of discrimination. That's why I'm going to call Madam Minister to the provisions of the bankruptcy law and point out the principles that courts must respect. The first principle is the principle of protection of creditors. How's that coming true? Through collective and proportionate settlement of creditors in accordance with this law. How is this relatively calming here, and what kind of treatment do bankruptcy creditors have over the Agency? They have a completely inferior treatment, and if we don't fix it by this amendment and by adopting this amendment, and we don't put it in full equal with the Deposit Insurance Agency, then we've violated the provisions of the Banks Act. We've violated the basic principle of the bankruptcy law. We've injured the target of bankruptcy. The objective of bankruptcy has also been defined, and it is now pointing to the most favourable collective settlement of creditors. Collective stillness. I will only repeat one more question – why is it that the Deposit Insurance Agency is given an exclusive priority and gives a benefit in any way that does not deserve in relation to other creditors, and why is the Deposit Insurance Agency in any way more favourable than other creditors? I think it is absolutely inadmissible and an explanation that this is in line with the EU directive as it was given to us in the SPS parliamentary group absolutely does not stand. It should be pointed out that the EU directive which regulates these issues and which provides that the Deposit Insurance Agency has the right to subbrogation, therefore, comes to the place of the bank's trustee as a creditor for whom it has paid the sum, has the exact same rights and obligations as the persons in whose place it has entered. In this way, the Deposit Insurance Agency Directive puts us in a level playing field with other creditors, and if that fact is in mind, then we are on the way to harmonising our legislation with EU legislation, we are just in the way of what is meant by the precondition that the European Community accepts us and that in this direction we can, with full right, say that we have respected everything that implies the standards of EU legislation that we seek. Please, I am sorry that Minister Vujovic is not here, I am asking you to appreciate these reasons very carefully, very analytically, because they are in the interest of all the creditors, I will tell all the creditors. As a trustee, you can find any of us. I also know how well they react and the bankruptcy directors, I've been doing this business for over two decades and how well I know what the problems in bankruptcy are going to happen. The problems that can happen in this way will be multiplier if this amendment is not accepted, because it is obvious that the Constitutional Court, in addition to all the initiatives passed to the Constitutional Court for the examination of constitutionality and earlier existing provisions of this law, did not bear fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21884	The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21885	Mr Jovanovic, I will agree with you that I am sorry that Minister Vujovic is not here today, but believe me, in two minutes, as far as possible, I can give you a qualified answer to this question you are asking. It's a very fundamental set-up of any country's financial system. The main reason why the Deposit Insurance Agency is given such special status as the trustee in terms of bank bankruptcy is the same reason that the NB has such special status in any country compared to any other institution and independent was determined by the Constitution even of Yugoslavia which otherwise did not know other independent agencies. What's the matter? The thing is that banks have the resources of depositors that exist, which are citizens. They're a very different kind of trustees than any other trustee the bankruptcy law speaks of. When you're a trustee of a company, you've made a decision about wanting someone to borrow some money. The depositor, when a citizen puts money as a deposit in a bank, does not give it to the bank with this money irresponsibly dispose and end up in bankruptcy. Without believing that money will be well invested and that it is safe, there is no financial system of the country. Without the country's financial system, there is no beginning of the country's development, there is no way to transfer the surplus capital to where it can make the most of economic growth and investment. So citizens' trust is terribly important. But why do we have the Deposit Insurance Agency? If this trust were to be guaranteed 100% by us as a state, then we would also end the bank's motivation to take care of how these deposits are held. By providing only an amount of up to 50,000 deposits, we're pushing citizens to keep an eye on what bank they're putting money in because the Deposit Insurance Agency is going to pay them back. So she only secured the amount of 50 grand. It is very important that when and if, hopefully, this will no longer happen, but if it were to happen again, that the bank goes into bankruptcy, at the same time at a high rate entirely independent of anything else that follows in the liquidation of that bank or at the disposal of its bankruptcy, that trustee, ie. A citizen, a depositor of his 50 grand gets. Anything else can be a subject of bankruptcy, but that trust based on the stability of the financial system and our ability to transfer capital, savings, surplus, accumulation from those who have it where investment can give the biggest economic growth, based on this trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21886	Thank you. Nema, are you answering the amendment or is it a replica? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21887	I understand you very well, Madam Minister, but I am not sure if I am well understood, because this was also on behalf of the SPS Group the best possible intention to protect something that I think should be protected. I'm going to ask three simple questions now. First question, if we go by that logic, then why don't we change the provisions of the bankruptcy law first? We apply the provisions of the Bank's bankruptcy law accordingly to the Bank's bankruptcy and liquidation and insurance companies. In the law of bankruptcy, we have no exclusivity, we have principles that we must respect, that we respect the principle of equality, the principle of banning the discrimination of creditors, the principle of efficiency. So, in no case can those principles be outside this law. That's the first question. The second question to which no answer is given – what do we need the Deposit Insurance Fund because money is being pooled into that fund that is being charged out of a secure amount? Then why did we start the Fund, for what? The third question that is most logical – what will we do if the Deposit Insurance Agency collects the total value of the bankruptcy mass, and you and I are creditors of bankruptcy? What are we going to charge ourselves from? Such situations are not impossible, they are not only theoretical, they are in a practical sense and how we can also encounter them in future situations, perhaps even often, given the fates of banks that do not operate in the way you explain, which I fully support you in that position and there you have unreserved support for the SPS. But what do we do in a situation where the Agency eats money that represents bankruptcy, how do we charge?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21888	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21889	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed minister, Mr. Nejko Jovanovic has justified and competently explained this amendment. Our MP group also listens carefully to those who reason on proposals to delete a member and those who suggest that the amendment is to correct a member. We are convinced by Mr Neđo Jovanovic that we are voting in favour of this amendment on the day of the vote, but we have only one condition, which is that Mr Jovanovic, since he said he performs in front of the SPS parliamentary group, that his MP group in the vote vote for this amendment and that it is politically correct and that in the voting day it shows that it works in the citizens' interest, and that this is not just a political story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21890	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21891	The Honorable Chairman, above all, the SPS parliamentary group did not submit this amendment for politicisation. We don't want to politicize. If anyone thinks this amendment is good, he'll support it, if someone thinks it's not good, they won't support it. If anyone believes this amendment improves the quality of the law, he will be supported. Otherwise, they won't even get support. What is important is that the SPS parliamentary group supports a set of these laws and that, as is said in the principle debate, it will remain and in the voting day, we do not have the problem, but we ask that with understanding we accept something that is logical and based on the law. We are simply looking for something that citizens expect from the SNS and SPS coalition, which they expect from the government that we are unreservedly supporting in all its efforts to stabilise the state's economic, financial situation and move forward, move towards Europe, move towards the EU. That is why the very reason for the amendments that I have highlighted on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group is this and with this argument. If someone wants to act on us for political reasons, then they don't have to support us. We have presented our reasons, which we consider to be clear, factually justified, legally acceptable and, most importantly, in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21892	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21893	Mr. Nejko Jovanovic did not give us a clear answer whether the SPS in the voting day would vote for this amendment, he was now justifying the SNS for having submitted the amendment. I don't think any MP should be justified for submitting the amendment. So if his parliamentary group supports this amendment, it will mean that the amendment is good, that it stands behind it and we will vote together for this amendment and we hope that it will be voted on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21894	Thank you. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of Section 6 and Article 22 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Arsenovicu, the Honorable Mrs Udovici and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I will also explain this amendment to you, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, with great pleasure. This amendment to this article of the bill reads - is deleted. I would just like to remind the MPs here, in addition to our basic argument, that we MPs are freely elected here to represent the common interests of Serbian citizens first and foremost. Look, the common and general interests of Serbian citizens only come true if we are here today, I have been working all day to ensure that, to ensure respect for the Constitution, respect for the laws and respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not respect the Constitution, if the Government does not respect the laws, if it does not respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this government does not work for the general good and such a government, gentlemen, we should return it to the framework of the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's very important here, I think, to discuss these seven draft laws, and now to discuss the amendment to Article 22. The law we're talking about, to remember only the contents of Article 99. The constitution that stipulates that every time a representative of the Government, and today it is Mrs. Udovici, comes to the National Assembly, that this is an opportunity for us to also check the work of that minister and government in general. It seems to me that this government does not deserve a transitional assessment and that is why I am responding to such poor work by the Government to the amendments – it is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21896	Thank you. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of Glava 3rd and Article 24th of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21897	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovic, respected Mrs Udovici and, of course, respected guests from the Ministry, who knows which time I am reporting for a word today to explain one, respected Vice President Arsenovic, of the 186 amendments that Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to these seven draft laws of the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, and in this particular case the amendment to Article 27 of this Law. I thought, gentlemen, that today's amendment debate and this bill should be an opportunity, not only for me, but for every MP who sees his position, his role in one responsible way as an opportunity to recommend and propose to any minister who comes from the government, and today it is Mrs. Udovic, I would be glad that there is also Mr. Vujovic next to Mrs. Udovic, and also Mrs. Tabakovic, to be recommended to say here - we were wrong to be in the Assembly contrary to even Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly by emergency procedure send the 7th draft laws containing one set of solutions for certain areas. I thought that we had this situation that the Minister or the Minister said I was wrong, that the Governor said I was wrong, that we should say then, okay, gentlemen may sometimes be wrong, and now we approach the analysis of the contents of what the draft laws are. If there is no strength for this species and recognition that it has been wrong then it is necessary for a member to analyse and remind us of mistakes, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21898	Thank you. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly of Mr Arsenović, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, I felt it was important to react now and for the sake of our amendment to Article 32 of this bill because, honourable gentlemen and ladies of the People's Parliament, I believe that this debate, as well as the content of this bill, is one picture of the bad government and one I think of an inappropriate relationship, and even the humble relationship of the congregation's majority with the Serbian government. Dear gentlemen, what is being tolerated in this assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? It is tolerated that the draft laws in the assembly procedure are sent past the respect of the Rules of Procedure, the Law on the National Assembly and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is tolerated that when representatives of the Government come to this National Assembly usually treat MPs with the humiliation of the dignity of the MPs, and therefore the dignity of the National Assembly and tolerates that every time the Government or 90% of the cases when the Government sends its representatives here, it sends a message that this Assembly is not as prescribed by the Constitution by the most significant political institution in our constitutional system. Since it is my judgment that all these things must not be tolerated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia or by any member of that Government, I believe that when a representative of the Government comes here, it is always an opportunity to remind them that they are responding to us, that the Assembly is a central institution and that we often repeat the respected gentlemen here, the sanctuary of our political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21900	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Borislav Stefanovic and Balša Bozovic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić have submitted an amendment proposing that after Article 32, a new Chapter IV, the title of head and new member 33 be added. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21901	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia who follow this transfer, we have submitted an amendment saying that after Article 32, a new Chapter IV, which reads, is a responsibility in the bankruptcy or liquidation process and Article 33, which says that the NBS, Governor, Vice-Governmentals, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees, are responsible for the damage caused by negligence or rude negligence in the conduct of the NBS's affairs established by this law. We have given reason to believe that the bankruptcy procedure and the winding-up procedure of the banks and insurance companies is in motion by a decision of the competent court, and based on a solution of the NBS which determines the fulfilment of the conditions for the initiation of the procedure, we believe that it is necessary to enter into the law a provision on the liability of the NBS and the above-mentioned circle of the persons for those cases when their negligence or gross negligence results in damage. This is particularly important in those cases where insolvency proceedings or liquidation proceedings are initiated and that it is later found that this was not justified. The government and the assembly majority, most likely since the government refused this amendment, will not accept this amendment, so in the day of voting, we will abstain and vote against this law, because we think that the amendment that we have submitted is very important and is talking about the responsibility not only of the rights and that it should have been an integral part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21902	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21903	A colleague, Bradic, said the essence of this amendment, but regarding this amendment, it is generally what is characteristic of all laws relating to the NBS that they absorb the responsibility of governors and vice governors and responsible persons in the NBS. What's the word? There is no responsibility for the proceedings which the governor has done damage by making a decision to initiate the bankruptcy or liquidation of a bank. So the responsibility that existed has been thrown out, and in this way they are put aside and a serious question arises why they receive such wages if they are released of any responsibility. This law in this sense is at the expense of the citizens of Serbia because at the head of the NBS we have people, persons with almost no responsibility at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21904	The word is made by Minister Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21905	The head of the NBS are people who and how they are responsible for any damage caused by the conduct of their duties and that is laid down by the NBS Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21906	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21907	It's the NBS Act that the governor and the vice governor are absolved of responsibility, but we'll talk about it when we get to those laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21908	Thank you. Together, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the title of Article 33 of the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenović, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and Mrs Šput, Mr Milekic and Kokotovic, it is impossible for me to fail to explain the amendment to Article 37 of this bill because it is respected gentlemen, enough for any of us to read the contents of Article 37 and to make sure that the government has acted incorrectly here. Here, dear gentlemen, let's read together what it says in Article 37. – this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and is applicable from 1 April 2015. So, this law when we adopt it will begin to apply respected gentlemen, in two months' time and I think, any man who follows a certain logic could now be asked, so why was it necessary that after this proposal was adopted in the Assembly on January 28th, this bill was sent immediately after two days to the assembly procedure and by an urgent procedure to discuss it here and to adopt it. Look, gentlemen, we could've had another ten days to discuss here, read the same thing. For example, if we agree on the content to start applying on April 1st, if a sublegal act is required, nothing interferes with the government's preparation of a sublaw, gentlemen. That's why all of this, past the procedure, still directs me to certain doubts and to the quality of the law that is being proposed here. It is so important then that the citizens find out what is contained in these proposals which, apparently, will become laws, respected gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21910	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON AGENCY FOR OSIGURAL DEPOZITA You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Dragan Jovanovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Borislav Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Marko Đurić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karić, Dr. Blažje Bradić, Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Pavićić, as well as the Committee for Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On behalf of Glava I, the name of Article 1 and Article 1 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21911	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly and the Chairman of Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Mrs Udovic and the Honored Guests, I will, having moved to the debate on amendments to the Bill on the Deposit Insurance Agency, have singled out six amendments of the 31 amendments that MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted to this bill, to try to convince the MPs about these six amendments in force and the validity of our arguments. Here, for example. Article 1. Proposal for a law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. It says – this law regulates the position, organisation, authority and function of the Deposit Insurance Agency, established by the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. It is then said further – the Agency is an independent legal entity which performs the tasks established by this and other law and is functionally independent of any state body. There are two extra bets here, but the previous two bets were, well, respected gentlemen were enough for me when I read them once, and then the second time, so the third time as I did, for example. in the European Parliament, and unlike our practice here, it has been respected enough for me, gentlemen, to make sure of the importance of this law, its contents, and to automatically resent the motion that this bill has been referred to the assembly procedure by emergency procedure so that we do not have enough time to read, interpret, analyze and perhaps vote for. When I add to that Article 31, which is the last one in this bill, which also provides for everything to come into force on 1 April 2015, then I cannot possibly allow myself without reacting in this inappropriate way to our government's behaviour here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21912	The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branko Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic, Dr. Blaža Bradic. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21913	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we have given the amendment to Article 1 and Article 1 reads – This law regulates the position, organisation, authority and function of the Deposit Insurance Agency, in the follow-up of the Agency. We propose that the sentence – established by the Law on the Insurance of the Depositary of the Republic of Slovenia, number 61/05, 116/08 and 91/10 be deleted, because we believe that it is above the introduction provisions of the law to indicate which regulation was established by the Deposit Insurance Agency, especially when the provisions of that law to which it is referred cease to be in force by the law, so that we have proposed that the rest of the Member remain, that is – the Agency is an independent legal entity that performs the tasks established by this and other law and is functionally independent of any state body. The following position – The Agency has a legal personality and is registered in the Court Register of Legal Persons and Other Subjects and the Agency's headquarters is in Belgrade, it remains, but we asked that this part of the sentence be deleted, because we consider it without reason listed in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21914	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. JankoVeselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic, Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Blagoje Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21915	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, we have submitted an amendment to Article 4 where we are asking for Section 2 to be deleted. Article 4 speaks of the following, he says – rights, obligations and responsibilities from the employment relationship of employees in the Agency, general labour regulations apply, if this law is not otherwise defined and we agree. The next position we disagree with is said – the Agency is not considered to be a beneficiary of budget or public funds, in terms of the law governing public procurement in the case of the selection of a payer bank in a manner defined by a law governing deposit insurance, a law regulating the work of public agencies, rules limiting the number of public sector employees, as well as the rules governing the budget system, so I will return you to the law we talked about earlier when you said that basically the Agency respects the Public Procurement Act, here you rule out. We gave an explanation, so I'll read it. It says – in Article 4(2), the proposer fully exempts the Agency from the application of the Public Procurement Act, the rules governing the budgetary system, as rules governing the work of public agencies and regulations limiting the number of public sector employees, which I do not think should be the case. We believe that such exceptions are dangerous because the Agency thus acts as a private sector subject, which we find inadmissible in view of its competences and importance in banking and in a broader financial sense. In particular, it should be borne in mind that it is already a Article 9. The draft law proposed that if the Agency's resources to carry out certain tasks are not sufficient, the Government shall, at the request of the Emergency Procedure Agency, provide funds from the budget or be in debt in the country and abroad, and therefore, we consider it necessary to respect the basic principles of the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, we point out that Article 7 of the proposal found that one of the Agency's sources of revenue is the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that you should respect our amendment and that the Agency cannot be excluded from all of the above mentioned facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21916	Thank you. The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21917	The position of Article 4(2) shall not mean that the Agency shall receive the treatment of a private body. This is the Agency which is regulated as an independent body for which the Management Board in the composition is designated and clearly provided in this law. So it is clear in this board that there are representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the NBS, as well as representatives who are independent, which are determined through a system of decision-making within the public sector of Serbia and by protecting the public interest of the country. This package of laws very detailedly regulates the authority of the Agency and the procedure for the assistance it makes decisions. There's very little discretion in her decision-making. So, what needs to be protected is that these procedures remain, as we say, independent and full integrity of the legislator's intention and therefore it is necessary to ensure maximum independence, as well as the protection of professionalism in the organisation itself as regards these items concerning it as a beneficiary of public funds. When it comes to respecting public procurement procedures, it is respected in all cases under the Public Procurement Act, except in the case of election of a payer bank, for reasons which we have already explained and which is defined in the Deposit Insurance Act, which must take place within the time limits that are completely beyond the assumptions on which the Public Procurement Act is based. In accordance with European practice, it is seven days and it is not at all disputed that the agency will have to stick to an act that will ensure their transparency and equal role of all banks capable of conducting this business in the competition for the job, but it will have to be regulated by a special act, therefore it is not possible and simply not in the spirit of the Public Procurement Act, to regulate the procedure under such conditions. It's about the financial system, when sometimes speeds and efficiency are a superior criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21918	The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21919	I'll just do a few sentences. So I'm trying to understand what you're saying, but I don't agree at all. Because not respecting the public procurement procedure because the deadlines don't match, I didn't even talk about it. I was talking about the basic principles of public procurement. So, since there is a board of directors that will determine what these procedures look like and what these deadlines look like, it has to be in agreement with public procurement. By the way, if we don't compromise, the majority of the assembly and you as a representative of the government have the right to declare your policy, defend, vote and implement it the way you think it should be. It's our place to say there's another way of seeing politics. We think it's not good and it's our political position based on an analysis of your bill and the opinions of our professional people from our parties. I don't think this law is going to be good, and we're going to explain in the next amendments what we find as a flaw in this bill and why we don't think he's good and he's not going to perform all those functions that you say will be good. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21920	On behalf of Glava 2, the name Section 1 and Article 5 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovic, the Honorable Mrs. Udovici, the Honorable Mrs. Shuput and the Honorable Mr. Milikiæ and Kokotovic, is one of the six amendments that I have to explain here tonight, because it seems very important for our good debate in the National Assembly. When I read the contents of Article 5, gentlemen, of this bill, and I read the contents of Article 31 of this Bill, as well as the last members of the previous three draft laws, it seems to me that the Serbian Government has sent us to the Assembly, gentlemen, so I must now call them "aprilili" laws. All the laws, gentlemen, begin to apply on 1 April, and this law, by emergency procedure, are here. For example, Article 5 shows: “The security of the deposit. The Agency shall provide deposits to banks under conditions and in a manner established by law governing the provision of deposit insurance and the payment of amounts secured under that law.’; By reading the contents of the members of this law, I am now wondering, as well as the contents of all the other members of this law – so what was so spotty, that we have to talk amendmentally tonight, not wait another seven, eight, ten days, so maybe the law doesn't even come in on April 1st, but maybe for a quarter later, so that we don't now have a chance to call them so-called. "aprilili" laws? Dear gentlemen, it seems to me that we should have been given another ten days, to think about it, and not to respond to the amendments - is deleted. In this case, all 31, and as far as today's entire debates are concerned, all 186 members of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21922	Thank you. The 6th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic put together the title of Head of the 3rd and Article 7th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment together submitted the names of Glava 4 and the names of MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenović, respected Mrs Udovic and the Honored Guests, Mrs Šput and Mr Milikiæ and Kokotovic, is that these amendments are now particularly explained in our debate today so-called. Round, 5, 10, 15, etc. This amendment to Article 10 concerns a whole chapter in this Bill – Authority of the Agency. And now comes the whole chapter in this bill, which has served me here as a reason that not only the MPs in our National Assembly, but also our guests from the ministries, Mrs Udovici, but also Mr Vujovic, if he joins us, remind us here of an important principle of action in politics in every modern democracy. Since I believe that here every MP here believes that we should create conditions in our country for the functioning of a modern democracy, then it is important to know that one important principle in such a democratic order, respected gentlemen, is the principle of ethics, responsibility, respected gentlemen. The principle of ethics and accountability implies that politics is not only measured by numbers, not even by voices, but also by the results of a political person. For me, it contains this bill, the way that this bill was sent to the National Assembly, one signal that this government policy has no results, that these results are hidden, that they are sometimes fleeing from these results and therefore necessary, Mr Arsenovic, that, in view of our amendment to Article 10, I remind, above all, the MPs here on the principle of ethics of responsibility, gentlemen respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21924	Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and together by Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Academyman Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karić and Dr. Blaža Bradić. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21925	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed a amendment to article 10 in the sense that the ambiguity in the Government's proposal is eliminated. The government has proposed - I will read these two positions: "The Agency may have one director or three or more directors who make up the Board of Directors. The exact number of directors and working methods of the Board of Directors shall be governed by the Statute. If the statute is not otherwise prescribed, the Agency shall have one director. Unless otherwise specified by this law, all provisions concerning the Director of the Agency shall apply accordingly to the Directors who make up the Board of Directors, or to the Board of Directors of the Agency. “ Why was it a problem for the Serbian government to propose a final solution? Why is it left to the arbitration board that the Agency which otherwise reduces the level of its powers, i.e. by its proposals, the ministry law, will take over the part concerning bank management and insurance companies, why does it leave the board of directors to decide whether there will be three or more directors? The government keeps telling citizens that they need to save, to work, to make every effort to do as much for the state as possible. In doing so, it comes out with such suggestions where it tells citizens – it will save everyone but us. Why, so far, with a higher number of contributions, the Agency could have one director, and by passing a new law, which you have proposed in this way, the Agency is able to have three or more so-called. The board of directors? I think it is an unnecessary cost and is not in the spirit of reforms declared by the Serbian government. I think it's quite enough and acceptable that one director runs the Agency, especially since the opposition of creditors, who sought amendments to the law and independent experts, was not in the number of directors, but was an observation of the independence of this agency, which should be changed by the intensity of this law. It doesn't seem, of course, but that's why it seems to be the increasing number of officials again. We've already heard there's no law on the limited number of employees in this agency. I don't think there's much difference between the law so far. I'll explain that in explaining the amendments to Article 11, but that's why there is an increase in the administration, unnecessarily indeed. What is even more interesting is that it is not legally defining how many directors it will be, but rather leaving the arbitration of some board of directors, which is later seen in Article 11, essentially set up by the ruling majority or government. I don't think that's a step forward and that, as I said, it's not in the spirit of reform and of change proposed by the government. If it is to save citizens, it should also save the government and there can be no dilemma about whether one director or more directors. If so far the Agency with more ingenuity and more jobs has been able to function with one director, then there's no reason why it can't continue to function with only one director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21926	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21927	The reason why the possibility of being a director or board of directors is envisaged here is that in an effort to reorganise, i.e. the planned reorganisation of the Agency, efforts will be made to clearly separate insurance from management operations, restructuring. Therefore, there is a possibility that there may be two directors, who are separately taking care of these activities of the Agency, not the necessary need. It is simply another option, another degree of flexibility in determining the optimal way of separating potential conflicts of interest in decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21928	Mr. Jovanovic, by amendment? (Jovanovic, from the post: By amendment. Then you must wait for order. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21929	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, therefore, we have submitted an amendment to the same member. In order not to read, I can only comment, Madam Minister, you are wrong. You're talking about two possible directors, one sure thing, and here it says nice, and there are colleagues who can follow what I'm saying, the Agency can have one director or three or more directors, it can have seven. Therefore, what we have proposed is that paragraphs 2 and 3 are deleted, as Article 3 states: “Unless this law is different, all provisions concerning the Director of the Agency shall be applied accordingly to the Directors who make up the Board of Directors,” and these are not two directors, “or to the Board of Directors of the Agency”. I think it's a lot of authority that you give to the Agency, and there's a lot of authority to be resolved only when the Agency is formed and when the board of directors and boards are formed, as it says here. We think that such a thing is not in the spirit of stabilisation, not in the spirit of economic rational spending of funds. If we have in mind, fellow Members of Parliament, that these directors will certainly not have a salary as MPs, but will have, let's say, what we have as a salary will be a week's pay, and you deny me, when the first payroll comes to those directors. I think it's illogical to give these kind of powers for budget money. I repeat, again, your political decision is whether or not you will accept our amendments, and ours is to say that it can be different and that this is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21930	The word has a minister named Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21931	Let me get this straight. I wasn't talking. I may have mispronounced myself. About two directors, but three directors. Well, it could be more, but it's about – why anyone else? These are the two main areas that the Agency is dealing with. There was a possibility that it could be done differently, but I didn't think it was two, but it was at least three, the main and two more. To tell you the truth, I don't see the difference between that attitude and the amendment you're proposing. Once again, there's a possibility of being a larger number of directors. In the case of asset management, such as the funds of the Deposit Insurance Agency, the damage that can result from citizens of Serbia, poor governance or conflict of interest, is not compared to whether there is a salary of one, two, three directors or not. The most important thing is for the Agency to be well-organised and to define in the best possible way the responsibilities for its decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21932	Thank you. (Blagoje Bradić, from town: Replica. The amendment can do that. There's no basis for replication. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21933	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an example of an amendment that seeks to eliminate the harmfulness of this law. This law is damaging, first of all, by the citizens of Serbia, according to their budget, home budget, because these directors, which could be three, five, seven, 12, don't forget, dear gentlemen, that according to your local self-government, has a director with 12 advisors, and why wouldn't this agency have 12 directors? Why don't you, Mrs. Widowsky, if I know examples of public enterprises where the director has 12 advisors? So these directors will have a salary of 100, 200, 300 grand. You have reduced the Agency's powers, and you have allowed it to have three or more directors, so that means nothing, but you do not understand what situation Serbia is in. It is located in a situation where salaries, pensions are reduced, some coasters are purchased in the NBS, etc. So one senseless behavior and this is the best example possible. The agency will have three or more directors with salaries we don't know what they'll be, we don't know the number of directors, their assistants, etc. Please accept this amendment. If you've come, Mrs. Widowsky, here without any authority to accept any amendment, then your presence is truly irrelevant. I believe there should have been Minister Vujovic, who could have accepted such an amendment. I find this very harmful. You have three parliamentary groups who have proposed the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21934	Thank you. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21935	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think that the government, or most of them who spoke about having too many agencies, that we should abolish the agencies, is now coming with a proposal prepared in haste to the National Assembly and is proposing, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, that one agency has three or more directors. It's this reform policy, a successful savings policy where only citizens should be spared. Mrs. Udovicki, why does the Serbian Government send to the National Assembly a bill for which MPs do not have time to prepare themselves, but rather declare themselves, say at the meeting of the Finance Committee 15 minutes after they have received it, and then in the text of the law they see that you have no clear decision on whether there will be three or more directors? Why is it not written but it leaves the arbitration of the administration around the number of directors of the agency? That certainly increases the cost. You should know that if you are preparing for a payment class solution, it will be higher costs for the citizens of Serbia. As far as independence between individual sectors is concerned, the same can be arranged in the statutes. There is no reason for the director to have to manage a particular sector, it can be done through the statute and, in a completely different way, to define the responsibility of the manager and to be completely different in the organisation of the agency itself. This proposal clearly shows that the government does not care about any reforms or savings, except when it comes to Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21936	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic and Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 11th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21937	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have proposed that this Article 11 which provides for independent board members to be amended. What is the current proposal? The present proposal to the so-called so-called. Independent members of the board of directors shall be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance Affairs with the prior consent of the National Bank of Serbia. Does anyone in this hall, any of Serbia's citizens, think that this board of directors will have independent members? Those members will certainly be dependent on the executive and the ruling majority, and this cannot possibly be a solution that will in some way satisfy that need, the idea that this board of directors should be as independent as possible, given that the other two members are selected by the competent state authorities that are certainly dependent. In this regard, I have proposed that, on the proposal of the Committee responsible for Finance, the National Assembly chooses these three independent members of the Management Board, thinking that in this way at least the public will have a pretty clear insight into who is proposed by the Management Board of the Agency, so I believe that the solution for independent members of the Management Board will be quite independent, as is the case with the Governor of the National Bank and the other directors of public enterprises, institutions, which are also party-dependent and there is no dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21938	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21939	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short, far from having anything against the idea that the National Assembly has its place in a system like this. I note, however, that the government’s proposal does not automatically eliminate any right to independence. This independence is more detailed in this legislative proposal in the next article, Article 12(2). I think it contains answers to the independence issues of the criteria that mean it. What I point to is the answer we received from the government in a comment on this amendment. What discredits him to accept is legal dissension, because the amendment's proposing failed to intervene in attitude 5, so if we adopted it, we would come to a strange situation that the National Assembly is choosing, and the government solves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21940	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Blagoje Bradic, from the place: We have submitted the amendment to Article 11.) I don't have that amendment here, it must have been withdrawn. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Gradic together submitted to the 12th amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21941	Thank you. Article 12 states that a member of the Management Board may be appointed a person and then state the conditions to be met. It says – which meets the general conditions for establishing a working relationship, we have added – in state bodies. Then in point 2 of the word “eight ” is replaced by the word “nine. ” In point 3 after saying on an unconditional sentence of prison, the words "extended for more than six months" are added. We suggest that point 4 be deleted in point 5 of the word "or trade union" to delete, i.e. that membership is allowed in the union organisation. We also gave an explanation given the importance and position of the Deposit Insurance Agency. We believe that board members should meet the conditions for working in state bodies that are stricter than the general conditions for establishing a working relationship. In addition, we believe that it is more necessary for board members to have at least nine years of experience, not eight years, since nine years is the lowest standard in our right to set up when persons are elected or appointed as executive function. Furthermore, we believe that the condition of indemnity should be related to the height and duration of the prison sentence. We propose to delete point 4 which provides that a member of the Management Board cannot be the person whose employment relationship has ceased due to a breach of the labour obligation, we do not consider this important because a member of the Management Board does not form a working relationship with the Agency. We do not believe that engagement in a union organisation should be an obstacle to the appointment of a board of directors, because we do not see how a union organisation can adversely affect the independence of a board member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21942	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21943	Very briefly, I would suggest that we not adopt this amendment for one single reason. I certainly support all the measures and good proposals that will eventually have a better composition of the board of directors for the implications. However, in at least two parts of this solution I see something controversial. First of all, what allows it to be about a convicted person, as far as a certain amount of punishment is concerned. The second thing, I also note, is that if it is put as a condition that it should be a chosen person who has not yet violated his work obligations and in that sense had some negative details in his career, so it can only be good to bring such a person as a member of the board of directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21944	Thank you. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic and Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic and Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21945	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, the Honorable Mrs Widow and Honored Guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milikiæ and Kokotovic, it was necessary for me to use here now for two minutes to explain our amendment to Article 15, and I would like to say three things about this argument. I'm starting with the most important. This member of this bill, gentlemen, I think, is related to a principle that we have today established that the Serbian government is insensitive to this principle, but if it means anything, I know that it is insensitive and chaired, Mr. Becic, and that is the principle of rule of law. As Mr. Becic occasionally violates the rule of law by chairing a session of the National Assembly, in violation of the members of our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so the Government, in its action, respects gentlemen, refers to the National Assembly, and today is the session of the image and opportunity of such a relationship. Now, I understand the government, always trying to concentrate a little more power, to get out of the rules, but I don't understand the MPs, especially those who are chairman. I wonder then, gentlemen, and here I come to another thing that is important to me for this amendment. I wonder what kind of European government proposes this law in this way, if it acts unEuropeanly respected gentlemen? When I conclude that there is a collision in approach and formal orientation, I have to react with the amendment "expect", and especially given the observation of Mr. Veselinovic, who said that behind this speed there may be some damage to the content of some of the solutions contained in this bill, respected Members of the People's Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21946	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. With great respect, Dr Pavicevic, the MPs have not yet confirmed by their vote that the chairman is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic and Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted the 17th amendment. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21947	The chairman, this amendment concerns the previous amendment, where there are restrictions on someone being a member of the board of directors and we have no explanation, Minister, which is why a member of the union cannot be a member of the board of directors. So I'm asking a question -- some financial expert who's a member of some union can't be a board member? That's what it says here in this law. The same law says that the agency can have three or more directors, five, seven, fifteen. It is both harmful for Serbian citizens. Therefore, the possibility of a union organization is limited. The union organisation is not a political organisation, a union organization only protects the rights of professions, the rights of employees who have reduced salaries, who have less and less salaries. Why would being a member of a union, and an expert in some field, be a distraction for someone to be a board member? What's next you'll predict? That someone who's even a worker, who belongs to a working class, can't be anything? Why did you put a provision like this into this law? According to Mr Pavicevic, such provisions that are at the expense of Serbian citizens are being implemented because of urgency, to the detriment of their standard, but I would also say to the harm of their moral integrity. You're making it impossible for someone because they're a member of the union to exercise some of the rights that his profession may give him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21948	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21949	You've discussed the wrong amendment. (Janko Vesenovic, from the place: No, I said it in comparison to the previous one. ) Article 17, which we are now talking about, does not mention any union organization at all, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21950	Mr. Veselinovic, this amendment speaks of reasons for the resolution of board members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21951	That's right, Chairman, but I've referred to the previous member and asked the Minister why a member of the board of directors can't be someone who's a member of a union organization? I said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21953	Since you missed talking about it earlier, I'll give you an answer. Here, the essence of union work is political. The aim of this law is to define independent members as people who are truly above-work professional, who are not involved in the political work of one, second or third species and we believe that belonging to a union organisation is contrary to these characteristics.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21954	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21955	Thank you. I'll be very brief. So I suggest that this amendment is not adopted and I appreciate that there is likely to be some loss of concentration in the debate, since this is still taking a long time today. Amendment promoters have relied on this amendment to one of the previous ones, but it is precisely the one that has been withdrawn from the procedure, so there is certainly no longer any causal-consequential link and solution provided for by this member of the law in paragraph 2. Absolutely must remain part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21956	Thank you. Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21957	We pulled the previous member, but not this member. So, I've heard something now that I don't want to believe that you, Minister, say, that union organization is a political organization. That, Madam Minister, is neither by sociological definition nor by political definition. The union organization is not a political organisation, it is a union organization that is resulting from the class of fighting of that member for its rights as workers, professors, peasants, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21958	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word has Mrs. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21959	Let me get this straight. So I didn't say it was political, but in its essence, and it's essentially about you getting involved in realising someone's interests. In this case, it is a professional engagement, which is an independent member whose task is to interpret the law and to apply the rules in the ultimate line and the actuarial business, etc., which are extremely professional. Someone who has a moral obligation to advocate the interests of one or the other or third group or class, as you wish to say, is certainly a person worthy of respect, but such a commitment is contrary to a task that needs an independent member on the board to perform.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21960	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for an amendment to Article 18? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted the 18th amendment. The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Article 18(4), which states: “The Director may be appointed a person who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 12 of this Act for at least eight years of experience in state bodies, institutions entrusted with public authority, financial institutions and other companies,” we suggest that instead of saying “eight years” the words “nine years” and we say that it is necessary for the Director to have at least nine years of experience, not eight years of experience, since the lowest standard in our law is set when a person is elected or appointed for executive functions. I don't know what decided to be eight years. What's not seven? What's not ten? What's not six? At least here we have one number that's like a standard for naming some faces, so we can call it that it's decided to be nine years, because this eight-year-old doesn't understand whether we're drawing someone to be on this function, so he's got eight years of experience, or he's eight years old, or if it's fallen on someone's will to be eight years of experience. I think this amendment of ours is meaningful, at least to justify why we're asking for someone to have a working experience so long to put on certain functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21962	Thank you, Mr. Braddick. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, master of Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk messenger, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21963	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, the Honorable Mrs Udovici, the Honorable Guests, Mrs Shuput and Mr Milikic and Mr Kokotovic, I am very pleased that among the MPs still sitting in this room there is one terrible orientation towards amendments which we seek to correct the draft laws on the agenda. I only have one previous note here now to announce that it seems to me that our chairman, Mr. Becic, seems to have first seen the power of argument behind these amendments "is deleted", and MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have submitted 186 such amendments. Of course, this one observation I am now based on a practical experience where I see it, and this is one rare opportunity for Mr. Becic to either not turn off the microphone for me, or he doesn't warn me here at the end of the third, fourth sentences, and here I am now talking for a minute, gentlemen, without any interruption. So, I expect Mr. Becic will probably vote first for the adoption of all these amendments tomorrow. For me, it means, gentlemen, one more thing, that little by little, mic by mic, word by word, we all slowly see the importance and importance of a great concept for which I have been fighting here all day today, and that is the concept of the rule of law on which every democratic state, every democratic government, every assembly, especially when it has the same importance as our Assembly in our constitutional system, respected gentlemen. I have to say here, it's a great pleasure to notice these tiny little but good steps towards a good way, gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21964	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. I'm just thanking you for talking about the amendment. I have no reason to interrupt you as you will never be punished for a spoken word in parliament. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaže Bradic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21965	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished guests, MPs, citizens of Serbia, here is one member where we have tabled an amendment that has been rejected and which is why I will vote against this law, and hopefully, here is my colleague Orlic who almost supports one of my amendments, that this amendment will surely support it. Article 20 says – The Agency, staff of the Agency, members of the Management Board of the Agency, if and persons acting under the authority of the Agency are not responsible for the damage caused by the performance of those duties unless it is demonstrated that they have not acted in good faith in the performance of their work tasks, it is likely that this is in good interest if I can interpret it. So it goes on to say, - for the damage to the position of the 1st member, the person in that position cannot be held accountable even after the employment relationship has ceased in the Agency, i.e. the termination of the function. Furthermore, the Agency is obliged to compensate for the costs of representing employees of the Agency in judicial and administrative proceedings in respect of the duties that these employees perform under this law. These costs are due to the Agency to make up for the persons to whom the employment relationship in the Agency has ceased. Well, people, if it's a lot, it's a lot. We say so – The Agency, the Agency’s staff, the Director, members of the Management Board of the Agency, if and those who, under the authority of the Agency, perform the duties laid down by law, are responsible for the damage caused by their conduct to the general rules of responsibility for damages, i.e. The rules that all of us who do any damage by doing our job. I can't understand that someone who has such powers, who has such discretionary rights, who has the money of depositors, has the money of the Republic of Serbia's budget, is not responding with his own damage unless we show him our bad intentions. I don't know now, let's have a lot of more educated people in that area tell me what it means and how it proves bad intentions or someone did some damage, and we said that there are people who are rarely elected, they can't even be members of the union. It means it's the cream of that mind, and then if they do damage it means they're inextricable, and each of us, when he does his job, he makes up for it, and it's time for those who work at the Agency to do the same. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21966	Thank you, Mr. Bradich. The word is Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Before that, the word has Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21967	I would just like to emphasise the importance of this member and the introduction of this European practice into Serbia's legislation. The point is that we have to become able to find the difference between the damage that can occur in making decisions that are inevitably based on risks. Nothing, and especially when deciding on the financial system isn't 100 percent. Whoever makes the decisions, the moment he makes them, makes them on the basis of imperfect information. We don't know the future, and we don't know everything that can happen in the future, and in the end, even though the probability of that was low, because of the decision that we made today, which, looking at all the possibilities, was the best decision possible, eventually happens because a little likely event happened. Every day, anyone who makes decisions in a responsible place particularly related to financial resources, although it can be of course in the economy, can make the best possible assessment that when risks already take place that have just been assessed in advance only causes damage, because there is a risk that was less likely, but not impossible. We need to become able to distinguish between this type of damage and the damages that occur because someone was careless or simply had some intention that can often be proven, probably not always, but that is not the most important right now, because the most important thing is not to drive out responsible people, professional people, the best possible assessors, people who are aware that their decision cannot be perfect, that we do not drive them away as candidates for leading, taking over the most responsible functions and leading our institutions. If we threaten them that any wrong decision that, after a well-evaluated risk has yet been made as if it has caused damage because the risks have not happened as well as they could have been assessed, if we are driving these people away from us, then only from these functions will we get people with evil intentions who know how to hide this evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21968	The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21969	Very briefly, for the purpose of responding to a particular question, namely the confidence expressed by fellow amendment promoters. Could I support this solution? You heard the minister's reply, and it suggests we look at the written response to the amendment under regular number 38. As long as there's good counterarguments for both of us on your side, I don't rule out anything in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21970	The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21971	I don't agree with you, Madam Minister, and that's the difference in the political understanding of the responsibility that should be worn by people who all the time... We criticized the choice, the authority. You've defended it with people who need to be immaculate, who are the best in their field, who will solve very important things without any responsibility. You know what, I'd like to do my job without any responsibility. Come on, any of the doctors in this room would like to work without responsibility. We carry both human, moral, and material responsibility, and criminal responsibility for the damage done. It's something we meet every day. We live with it. We're working with that. I wish when I did, away from it, some damage and did something wrong, to say, well, I had good intentions, but what now, that was the assessment. You have to admit that it's much more uncertain to treat people than to make a financial decision. It is much more uncertain and hundreds, thousands of doctors who work specific areas of medicine that make such decisions every day, are responsible for their work. That's how it is in the building, that's how it is in the machinery, that's how it is in electronics, and that's how it wouldn't be in the Agency. I don't see what it is that abolizes them from it. He must have some responsibility for it, so these people are adequately paid, chosen and must bear responsibility for their actions. That's what I think and that's the fundamental difference between our political views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21972	Thank you. National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21973	I think you've used your doctor's example nicely, this is a completely parallel thing to it. The surgeon whose patient still dies will only answer if he has not followed protocol and is in this case as well. So, the damage can occur, but it has to be estimated what the assessment is, is it in that assessment that, after the decision and after the realisation of the risk, proved to be wrong, because there was damage, whether some of the protocols were broken, or if some of the reasonable ones couldn't be absolutely everything, especially in financials even less than in medicine, anything to define the protocol, and the protocol here is equivalent to the acts that are prescribed and adopted by the agency itself. So when you're evaluating, you have to bring expertise and put yourself in the position of risk assessment at the moment the decision is made. After all, I could only limit myself to saying that this practice is represented in the Member States of the European Union, it is a practice represented throughout the developed world, but we still have one too broad understanding of the official responsibility and it is time to reduce the arbitration of the assessment that we are doing after someone has been on official duty on his work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21974	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted the 20th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Please, Madam Minister, you have your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21975	So the government proposes an amendment to that in Article 20. The draft law, following Article 3, shall be added to paragraph 4 which reads – if the appropriate procedure finds that persons referred to in Article 1 of this Article have caused damage from that position deliberately or with extreme negligence, these persons shall be obliged to compensate the Agency for the costs of representation under Article 3, as well as the amount of damage paid in accordance with the law. The Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21976	Madam Minister, just to confirm that you accept this amendment to the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21977	The Government accepts the amendment, or the Committee's proposal, as an amendment to Article 20. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21978	Thank you. I find that this amendment has been accepted by a representative of the government. On behalf of Glava V and Article 21 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Glava VI and Article 25 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Here you go, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored Mrs. Udovici, honored guests in our National Assembly, Mrs. Shuput, Mr. Milikic and Kokotovic and the Honored Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Becic, I only have one previous note before I announce an additional argument for the adoption of this amendment. It seems to me that we have done one very important thing here today, to remind the MPs, by the power of the arguments of the respected gentlemen, we have agreed to the chairman of Becic to respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution, gentlemen. This is a great result I must say here, but insufficient because the rule of law, gentlemen, is one of the several important principles of our Constitution, and I now have to, for the sake of our amendment to Article 25 of this Bill, that both Mr Becic and Mr People's MPs are all of us here, reminding us of another principle that is important to us in our actions, especially when we are facing here with proposals sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the principle of disseminating power, respected gentlemen. Article 4 The constitution speaks of the principle of power-sharing and since I see that I now have the opportunity to remind all Members of the people to use this in arguments in discussions with the representatives of the Government. The legal order is unique, the regulation of authorities rests on the division of authorities in legislative, executive and judicial matters. The ratio of three branches of government is based on a balance of mutual control, gentlemen. Every time someone from the government comes here, we need to control them, question them, so if it's necessary, gentlemen, that we change their proposals to the amendments to "wipe." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21980	I thank Dr Pavicevic. It's an extraordinary pleasure. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Glava VII and Article 26 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The names Glava VIII and Article 27 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The names of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Miroslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradić. The word has a Messenger of the people, Dr. Blagoje Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, one sentence only, Madam Minister, you are wrong. Doctors are not judged by good intentions, but they are judged to respect good practice guides of clay, but they are exact, and this is broadly like the Danube when it pours into the Black Sea, which you suggest. Okay. Article 28 states that members of the Management Board will be appointed in accordance with this law, no later than 90 days from the date of entry into force. We have suggested that it be 45 days, because we propose that a 90-day reduction be made, from the date of the law's entry into force for appointed board members, we consider it necessary for them to be appointed earlier and before the law is applied. That's why we suggested 45 days. Furthermore, we propose amendments to point 2 where we have proposed that the word "independent" be deleted because we believe that such a way of choice is not independent members of the board of directors and we propose to delete attitude 3 that says: In the first appointment of board members in accordance with this law, the members proposed by the Ministry of Finance of the NBS are appointed to four years, two independent members to three and one to two years. We propose that this member be deleted because it is proposed that individual board members be appointed for a shorter period because such a solution is placed in an unequal position of members of the board of directors, depending on who their proposing is, where all board members have the same rights and duties in later work, so we do not see the reason for such discrimination, and the draft law did not explain why there should be a difference in the term of office of board members, especially when they come to the re-election, so it has the right to re-election for one year, and we believe that our amendment is meaningful and I propose that the National Assembly accept it in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21982	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21983	In short, just to answer that this is not about the different treatment of members, but about the first appointment of the cascade duration of the mandate so that not all of them are appointed by the same body composition of both the government and the NBS when their choice is determined to ensure greater independence. However, I prefer to answer, I think it is more important that I use the rest of the time, to underline that it is still parallelism with the responsibility of surgeons or doctors when making a decision fully stands. The bottom line is that in medicine and economics there are no regrets, I would like as an economist to have the same factor of uncertainty, or the same amount of unknown factors that you have to guess at and guess at very high risk of wronging when you work in medicine and when you work in the economy. There are clear protocols in medicine. The protocols are in the economy, to say the equivalent of these statutes and the rules adopted by the Agency. In medicine, like everything else in life, protocol can't determine everything. You always need an assessment of whether this is exactly the situation the protocol describes. That's why you in medicine have boards of doctors who after a warlock about whether the protocol is broken or not. If he were single, you wouldn't need skill. It's the same situation in the economy, with you right, the space to be estimated in the application of this protocol, i.e. The statute, simply, by the nature of matter, is broader and therefore even more important to have, of course, excellent evaluation and economic skill in assessing whether a decision was made at the time it was made on the basis of the information he had made the decision was made in good faith. I agree that there is only a job ahead of us in Serbia to develop a judicial system that does so properly, but somewhere we have to start and it is high time, because without it we are actually leaving arbitration to the question whether some decisions are being held accountable or not. Our economic reality is covered by obviously bad decisions, because otherwise we'd be doing better by now, but they may have been the best decisions, at least one part of them, which anyone in the place he was able to make the moment he made them. Unfortunately, the economy is not an exact science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21984	Thank you, Madam Minister. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Aleksandra Jerkov and Goran Ćirić submitted the 28th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21985	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Bečić, the Honorable Mrs. Udovic and the Honored Guests, Mrs. Shuput and Mr. Milikiæ and Kokotovic, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I have also submitted an amendment to the last member of this bill, which is Article 31, and here I have to intervene, because we seem to be introducing a new practice now in the National Assembly. We've had cases here that we've adopted even some unconstitutional laws. We've had cases where we've adopted some, we've called them legal rags, because we've changed one of these three times, and now, gentlemen, it seems like we're introducing a practice of adopting first-prime laws. So, "aprilili" law, and here's to try to justify this thesis, gentlemen. On January 28, the draft laws from the government arrived in our congregation, four proposals, or five. Four out of those five are expected to enter into force, i.e. they will start to apply only on April 1st 2015. So, on January 28th, they arrived, we begin the debate on January 30th, and it is predicted that on February 3rd, what will start on April 1st will be adopted. If I were a citizen of our Republic now who follows closely the actions of this executive authority, I would really, gentlemen, ask myself if this is some kind of joke that's already being prepared for April 1st, or if it's a serious government that's seriously preparing bill proposals, even treating our National Assembly. I think it's one serious question, and I suggest that all the MPs think once again about accepting all 186 of our amendments, not just two, which would now be the case at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21986	I thank you, Dr Pavicevic. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of Public Procurement You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Zoran Zivković, Vladimir Pavićevic, Ivan Jovanovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović, Dejan Nikolic, Boris Stefanović, Gordana Čomić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Marko Đurišić, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Dr. Blaže Bradić, Ivan Karić and Miodrag Nikolic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21987	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I, unlike the Government, who proposed a legal solution in public procurement procedures in the public sector that envisioned savings of around 1.5 billion dinars per year by reducing the advantage for domestic bidders, I suggested that it be done exactly the opposite, to increase the ability to earn a job for domestic bidders. I think the recession in which our economy is located in the previous year and the one foreseen for this year is sufficient reason not to prevent, or prevent domestic bidders from making a better offer, i.e. to get a job. Did the government, since it gave reason to believe that there would be a billion-dollar savings if our producers weren't the ones to deliver the goods, give an explanation for the damage to our economy if our bidders didn't get the job? Do we have that information on how much less jobs will be in Serbia and how much will it cost our economy? There is no such thing as never when it comes to passing laws that should support any citizen, any economy. The government was very loud when it came to saving, supporting the economy, and we see in this case a completely one proposal that is not in the interest of the Serbian economy and Serbian producers. What was a billion and a half dinars per billion euros, how many legislators of the Public Procurement Act said they would be saved when the law began to apply? The government better worked on applying the Public Procurement Act than it did on that minimum support in this law and the advantage of domestic bidders to reduce, explaining that it would bring some savings. Minister Vujovic here spoke at the session about the fact that domestic bidders are in a much better position than foreign bidders, because they directly have production here and here they have all the resources and are much easier to operate. I think it's far worse the position of our bidders who are in trouble and because of the inability to come up with cheap loans, to the funds, to the investment loans, to the craftsmen, and they're in a much worse position than foreign companies, and I don't think that's the case. On the other hand, the government could make a far greater savings through better application of the Law on Public Procurement and perhaps reach that figure that remains imaginary, from a billion-euro savings. Last week, the State Auditor spoke about the extent of irregularities in the application of the Public Procurement Act. It states that out of 135 controlled state administration entities, public enterprises, those subject to control, 45.81% of subjects had poor application of the Public Procurement Act, illegal procurement, and that is something that is a fact, and the fact is that the government itself does not adhere to the Public Procurement Act. Here we have the Office for Kosovo and Metohija in 2013 which does not adhere to the Public Procurement Act. We have the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, which also does not adhere to the Public Procurement Act. The Ministry of Transport also does not adhere to the Public Procurement Act. We also have a national lottery that also has drastic violations of the Law on Public Procurement and the Accounting and Audit Act. That's not where the government's trying to find the savings. There's no saving. There's nothing you can provide. When it comes to businessmen and citizens, there is always something to be taken away from them, withholds some right because, of course, they cannot be properly presented either in the Serbian Government or here in the National Assembly, because the minority, both in the government and in the republican parliament, who has a different opinion, cannot properly explain it and be overwhelming. I don't think the government has a proper solution to the crisis in which Serbia is located, no solution to the economy, no solution to raising the standard of living for citizens. The only thing he's resorting to is saving the citizens themselves, to the economy, and that won't get us out of recession, it won't help improve the standard of living in Serbia. I think that, I said, the Public Procurement Act was to be applied primarily in the state, in public enterprises. If we have a situation where the government of Serbia itself changes the director of a public company twice overnight, it is clear that in this way it is not possible to fully send out how the same company is implementing the Public Procurement Act, and the state auditor has unequivocally found that out of 135 controlled entities it is 16.5 billion dinars in the problem, when it comes to the Public Procurement Act. That 16.5 billion, which is below 1% of the total number of control subjects, we can then think of what the total sum is. That 1% is 16.5 billion, and you want our economy to be cut short for 1.5 billion. That's unacceptable. It is completely contrary to the interest of the Serbian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21988	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21989	I will respond to this amendment that proposes that the protection of the domestic economy remain greater than it is predicted now by these amendments and additions to the law, only once. And then there's going to be a series of the same, similar discussions that's going to be about what I'm going to say right now. The economy is not an exact science. You can have your own assessment of the achievements of the protection that has been applied so far. The government's assessment is that there were no major effects in terms of resuscitation and in terms of compensation for the fact that domestic economy often operates in difficult circumstances and that it would be much better to focus the funds saved in this way on strengthening the direct functioning of the Government to, firstly, create an environment that is safe, in which macroeconomic stabilisation is clear in which investors can therefore operate with much greater certainty, just by achieving fiscal consolidation better, and on the other hand, that they can also be used to directly affect the removal of less favourable business conditions. This measure creates a space for abuses equally or more because, of course, you said so yourself, the procurement process has shortcomings and it is quite possible and easy for domestic subjects to use this space to earn an undeserved portion of the cake, so to speak. In any case, the government's assessment is that at the moment when the country must first put an accent on savings, it's less damage than that these items, these percentages are reduced, than not to be reduced or increased.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21990	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21991	Dear Minister, I agree that these funds should be invested, if we go to this solution to invest in some of the measures that will support the domestic economy, but it is not seen in reality, it does not exist in reality. We have a reduction in investments directly affecting the downturn in our business, especially those in the area of construction. That data is completely accurate and clear. You have a downfall on the creditor list, which speaks of our economic ambience of all independent, almost, relevant agencies, and this does not contribute to your claim that these funds will be used in this way, because they are not used during the last budget either. I saw a bunch of amendments from the MPs who talked about the need to separate larger funds to support the economy, but none were accepted. if that is the case, what do you say, why have these amendments not been accepted and why has it not responded in this sense to increase those funds that are indeed supporting the economy? If we don't have it, then the government policy it's talking about is not seen, but only the desire to reduce the chances of our economy and, in some ways, make it impossible for the economy to come out of the problems it's in. It is clear that the government's economic policy, based solely on savings, on citizens and on domestic economic operators, does not produce results and that it cannot bring economic growth and an expected better life for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21992	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21993	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, we have submitted an amendment to this article with the idea of keeping, when it comes to preferences, in some respects, and to support the government's desire to reduce these preferences when it comes to domestic enterprises. Our amendment, mainly all amendments coming from Green Serbia, concerns the green economy, the circulatory economy and sustainable development. Health studies, economic studies, contemporary economic studies and sociological studies are increasingly showing that many costs are forgotten and that in the neoliberal concept of cost calculation we often forget these aspects of the economy in a broader sense. In this regard, in relation to this amendment, we have several proposals, when it comes to green public procurement that can help, on the one hand, the austerity measure, to be used more rationally. We from the Greens are not interested in the government not driving its cars and sitting in Belgrade, in the government building, but using cars and traveling through Serbia and helping the country get out of the crisis by saving up the installation of a hydrogen generator, produced in Serbia, as well as in the United States, the UK, 30% of the fuel and replacing it with work. To replace energy saving lamps in public buildings, in public lighting, in public lighting, with solar power or potentiometers that will reduce electricity consumption between two and six in the morning and thus make savings. We want to introduce biomass through public procurement and pellets and thus reduce the pollution of Užica. We want to introduce biomass to the EPS gaps and, in this way, use the time of the parliamentary group, greenen the production of electricity in Serbia. We want to introduce healthy food through public procurement to kindergartens and schools, so you can see in the next generations how there's going to be an echo in these austerity measures. You probably know better than I do that in Germany 40% of individual households are energy independent, that there are local energy cooperatives and local energy communities that are being helped through green public procurement. We need to think about how to change our economic policy and our public procurement policy, which we will only do if we look beyond neoliberal capitalism. It is truly surprising, given that the largest number of members of the government have completed colleges in the socialist era, free colleges, it is truly amazing that this obsession with neoliberal capitalism that is dead where it came from, and that is the United States. I am sorry that Mrs Angela Merkel's extra lessons helped Serbia, although her students today and ministers, were learning the social economy, to turn to neoliberal capitalism. Green Serbia has one proposal. We are the only parties in Serbia who have been in Greece and supported the victory of Sirize both in Thessaloniki and Athens. It might be good to see or help you see how problems are solved in Greece, how domestic companies are not sold, how gold is unexploded in Halkidiki, is invested in renewable energy sources. Finally with regard to all these amendments, it is clear that the concept of a neoliberal market is slowly dying, but surely, just so it's not too late to figure out as late as we realized that the Berlin Wall fell. Green Serbia is not for austerity measures and austerity measures cannot be an answer to the crisis. I hope my colleagues on the left agree with that. Greens across Europe oppose such austerity measures because there are solutions to the crisis. The burden of the crisis in Serbia needs first of all to be borne by extraprofits and tycoons, the burden of the crisis should be properly deployed but in that all those extraprofitters who have made extra profits in the 1990s, first of all to charge taxes, to reach the zero tolerances that we all seek together, zero tolerances to avoid paying taxes, only in the end to begin to reduce salaries for cleaning women and to reduce pensions to pension pensions to pensioners. I hope with a different economic policy that will not be neoliberal capitalist we can reach a degree of development and that we should turn around as soon as possible without being late as usual in new trends in environmental protection and start to deal with the green economy, the circulatory economy and sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21994	Thank you. The word has a Udovici minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21995	If I may briefly say that we agree entirely that we are not going and we should not go to the neoliberal American model. Serbia is integrated with the EU, which takes great care of environmental protection. This commitment is seen in Article 85 of the Law where environmental advantages and environmental protection as well as energy efficiency are included as criteria which they can, therefore, should be taken into account when deciding on public procurement. However, I must ask you for an explanation before I answer your amendment to the end. I see the contradictory 1st and 2nd position that you suggest, do you suggest here that domestic producers be more protected if they produce this type of product or that this kind of advantage is actually not given when foreign producers of these products are concerned? It's nothing controversial, just to understand what you want. Do you want to encourage domestic production of organic products or do you want to encourage, or exclude, domestic protection if these are goods of this kind? Which one is this? Do you want to protect our production of these goods or do you want to encourage the import of organic goods? If you answer me, I can finish. That's two opposite things. Anyway, it's no place for different industries to be treated unequally. Goals such as yours that you have outlined are solved by members such as Article 85. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21996	The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21997	Thank you. This is a replica. The Honorable Minister has asked for clarification. We are in favour of remaining preferences for a particular type of domestic industry, except in cases where we are talking about in our amendment provided that a foreign bidder offers domestic goods. Then he can be even with the domestic manufacturer. Otherwise, a domestic producer must have the advantage of producing products in Serbia, because it uses the workforce of citizens and citizens of Serbia and because it strengthens Serbia's economy. In this way, it pays taxes to the Republic of Serbia's budget and in any case, we want domestic products to remain in Serbia, to have domestic products subsidized and domestic products supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21998	Thank you. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Dr. Blaže Bradic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u21999	I thank Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, distinguished guests, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, I have listened to your explanation to a colleague who has submitted a similar amendment. I'm talking about preferences that you drastically reduced by the bill to all those positions where our producers of domestic goods, where our service providers had according to the law that you are now changing the advantage over the foreign bidders from 20% to 10%. The minister explained that it was on an annual level of savings of one and a half billion. So, since it's about a 10% drop in legal sector investments of around 15 billion dinars. I think we should respect the CEFTA Agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and all those standards that we've accepted by signing those two documents, but if you're well remembered for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement only at the end of September condition that we take down certain preferences for a certain percentage and I don't see why we're doing it right now. I'll explain. We're doing this if we adopt our domestic companies whether they're productive or if they're providing a service they've denied for 15 billion investment. We're talking about how regular contributions have to be paid, we're talking about having to work on white, nothing on black, and here we're reducing their competitiveness potential. Why are there preferences? Because our companies aren't capable of dealing with the West. That's why there are preferences. Is it our goal to even up the investment game with foreign firms so our companies don't have a chance? Is that the goal? Is that how we imagine the economic recovery of the country? Who we're going to develop if not our own companies, and we can only make preferences. With these preferences they have problems. It's not good, so it's not good, but it's ours and it's better. That is why we have made an amendment that, at least this year, for the goods produced in Serbia, the preference will be 15% now, and for the others, when the time comes, and that is 2018. Let's take a chance at home economy, we all advocate the development of our industry, our service activities, and give them a chance to stand up and mature so they can compete with Western companies, because in direct competition they don't have a chance. If we reduce their ability, and some of them will fail because they won't have a job, I don't know who will fill the budget and then who will fill and patch up the deficit in the budget that we've projected at two billion euros this year. Then he'll be bigger. Whether I'm right or not, we'll see in the first budget rebalancing or for six months' reckoning, as some firms say. I ask you to respect our amendment, first of all I appeal to the Minister if he has that power and if he has that authority to accept our amendment and to give our firms a chance as long as he allows the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement not to apply the reduction of preferences and to leave that chance to our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22000	Thank you, Dr. Bradic. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Vesna Martinovic, Dejan Nikolic and Borislav Stefanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 1st amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Miodrag Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Gordana Komic and Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and together with the folk MPs Gordana Komic and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović and Dr. Blaža Bradic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22001	I have very little time to present this important amendment to you, Minister. With this amendment, we asked that in cases of public procurement in which the subject of public procurement is medicinal products or medical equipment, the Commission acts as a priority. When he was visiting almost here the Minister of Health, Mr. Loncar, and he said that public procurement in that sphere is unacceptablely long and that they last long. Serbia's biggest fear is fear of disease, the biggest fear of disease, and that citizens will not be able to be treated. There are public procurements that last a year or two days for equipment that is very, very important for health care. We've asked this amendment for these public procurements to be resolved as a priority, so that citizens don't run out of drugs. I was the last time I discussed in principle alluding to clinical centres that had run out of drugs, which had no radiation apparatus. Madam Minister, it's really nothing funny, I'm talking about a very serious thing, I'm talking about citizens who can't be treated for problems with the administration, because of the Public Procurement Act, which we pointed out would be a problem in the field of health care. So, Mr. Loncar said last time that you had professional bidders reporting to tender just to tear down suppliers and not to make public procurement real. I don't know why the government doesn't have the will or Minister Loncar doesn't have the influence to do something about this plan to make these public procurements go beyond the Public Procurement Act, but to deal with them first and so people who are sick don't suffer for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22002	Thank you, Mr. Veselinović. The word is Dr. Kori Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22003	Mr. Veselinović, I am sure you know very well that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement does not belong to such an amendment. You can't change the subject of basic law, which is not at all a matter of the transitional provisions of the law on amendments and amendments to the basic law itself. The basic Public Procurement Act itself is subject to review and will be handled in accordance with the government's work plan. Therefore, a preliminary analysis of the effects of the application so far is needed. As we all know, the Public Procurement Act is extremely important and complex. Its changes must be made based on careful application analysis. It is not perfect, it is one of the areas that will be subject to promotion for a long time, because it is one of the areas in which, as a modern society approaching the EU, we have the most to learn how best to do. This is a law that has greatly improved the public procurement process. He's not perfect, he'll fix himself up according to the government's work plan, but it's not an object here and you know it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22004	Thank you, Madam Minister. The word has the mandated representative of the SNS parliamentary group, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been following what my fellow MPs are saying about the Public Procurement Act. Apparently, they're saying that all the law on public procurement is some kind of fantasy. Well, for nine months of implementation, from 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2013, the Republic Health Fund saved 30m euros in public procurement, only one state body. So by 2013, thanks to the old and bad Public Procurement Act, for which representatives, or MPs of the former regime, have put at least 30m euros in their pockets each year. Be careful, the law has been in place since 1 April 2013. This isn't a April joke. Many public procurement procedures have begun before the law enters into force, so its effects are much greater. When you attack the Public Procurement Act, I'd understand it if someone went with the arguments. We know the law isn't perfect, but you're criticizing what's not perfect. Suggest a better solution, we don't mind, but don't over some political demagogy put yourself as the most ordinary tycoon instruments that have robbed these citizens for more than a decade. So, only one state body saved 30m euros in just nine months. I would like everyone who attacks the Public Procurement Act to say -- yes, you saved 30m euros, but you're not okay with it, that and that. And now there's a big concern for the domestic industry, domestic economy. I ask the same question – why didn't you take care of it while you were in power? Well, everything's closed alive, all alive. Our retail construction companies no longer exist. You've been on the sidelines, from Austria, and now you're telling us how we're supposed to take care of things. About who? The unfortunate Miskovic privatized the toll companies and what did he do? By financial transactions he robbed these companies, destroyed their assets, and no one said a word about it while you were in power. I expect you to defend him. Let's see who does it. The law on public procurement has given the effects we expected of it. When the debate was here, when the law was passed, we said it ourselves – maybe the law is not perfect, when it comes into application, we will see its weaknesses. Don't worry about the law, his weaknesses will be removed, I expect in the first half of this year and there won't be any more complaint applicants on duty. Yes, but it will have to be paid and can also be disqualified if it is found that he has repeatedly filed complaints. When it comes to the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, you say it's covered. Yes, it is, in objects, for two reasons. The first is, as you said, from the complaint applicants on call. I also list those who were members of the old commission, who did not act in any appeal procedure from September to April 1st, so the new commission inherited the items, imagine, in seven months' time, so correct that, if it works within a period of 30 to 45 days. So, one reason is that the commission was buried with cases, and another reason is that those bidders who gave up the complaint in advance for the previous work of the commission have now gained confidence in the commission and are quite justifiably filing complaints if the procedure was not in line with the Public Procurement Act. This is evident from the fact that the number of bidders is constantly increasing and that the number of different job providers is constantly increasing. It seems to me that the old Public Procurement Act, for which someone is crying, has been written for a few to control all financial flows and all investments in the Republic of Serbia. There won't be any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22006	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Mr. Dejan Radenkovic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22007	I am reporting as an authorised representative of my Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, after you announced your colleague as the mandated representative of the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group. I listened very carefully to my colleagues, but as my dear colleague on the right would go – the respected chairman, respected colleagues, respected guests, I would like to repeat once more and to comment a little bit, I did not want to report on every amendment, to sum up what we are doing at the end. I think that, simply, as we all know in principle, our position that, given what has been imposed through the practice of applying the Law on Public Procurement, and what we all know is that there has been a need for certain amendments and additions, we just think that maybe we shouldn't have been in such a hurry, and that, since our colleague Veroljub Arsic also announces a quick approach to making amendments and additions to the Law, that we eliminate all these shortcomings, that our estimates last for three months. What we have to say once again is that the preference is due to the fact that you're giving a company a job at home. The company, simply registered in Serbia, has much more benefits than it because it pays taxes, employs workers, takes care of the development of its company. What we have to say, and we can't hide it, is the substitution of the domestic product, of course I'll be understood by the people who are from our brand. What is worst for all of us when every solution if it is not put in the right way it simply turns into a space for infinite distortion of criteria and it becomes the opposite of what we want and what the legislator wanted to prescribe. I have in front of me this rule on how to prove compliance with the conditions that good domestic origin has been offered in which it is clearly defined through four members very simply and simply to provide evidence of the domestic origin of the goods offered in the procurement process with the offer of the tenderers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Then what's going on here? And what I'd like to say and what's denying us all here and the colleagues who have submitted the amendments, we don't have a clear and precise statistic of what to get the answer, I'm saying, let's just see how much it has been used to prefer in practice. What we were able to notice in practice, which is not good for the domestic economy and for those who really do and who want and who are preparing tomorrow for new challenges in much larger markets, is that we have come to the conclusion that the certificate of domestic origin, as I said in principle, is that the frozen donkey of domestic origin. Then, on electricity, it confirms that fuel is of domestic origin. Of course, we have these quantities that are produced by us, but who can and can determine to what extent. This rule is very impertinent and I think that in perspective we should deal with it in order to really avoid all possibilities for such examples. What I would like to point out as another example of the abuse of certain criteria, the validation of these criteria is that it was happening that the public procurement process was involved by the producers of goods as well as by another bidder who offered the good of the same producer. Well, then, in his offer, that manufacturer delivers a certificate of domestic origin of goods, and that the same certificate will not deliver to this bidder offering its goods. I don't think it would be us if we didn't screw up in all sorts of ways, and I even have to say, and if someone didn't get me wrong, one fundamental and studioly processed amendment is the amendment of my colleague, Fremond. So he's nice on a nice approach to a good businessman trying to say that we should protect the domestic economy, but if I look at these parameters through this data that we have is what the effects are. Now, that's what we do for other effects. We're doing it precisely because we're cutting budget deficits, because it's completely inexplicable that in some situations when we use the preferences, we give the job to the domestic producer, and that domestic producer that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22008	Mr. Radenkovic, with all due respect, but please you must return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22009	I'm talking about the amendment right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22010	If you don't have the amendment, I'll read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22011	No, I have the text of the amendment, and here's the amendment, everybody in front of me, don't worry, but I didn't want to report all the amendments, so I wanted to make a summary, and if you don't give it to me, no problem, I'll listen to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22012	You've been an MP for a long time, as I do, and you know the Rules of Procedure very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22013	I know the Rules of Procedure well, and I think I'll bring my discussion to an end. He just gets a job to be the producer of that company that offered a lower price. It's just amazing that a foreign company can give a much less price than a domestic company. So, I just made this one summary and I think here, I'll listen and the chairman won't talk anymore. I also wanted to get involved in a debate with my colleagues, although you didn't warn him when he was talking, and he's not talking about the amendment, but it doesn't matter, I'll respect that, too. When it comes to those who are on duty who are writing complaints and writing complaints, it's where they take that space and it costs at least when someone complains to the commission. We simply have to come to this somehow there is a right to appeal to the customer for documentation and then to prevent further problems and reduce the pressure on the Commission and, of course, speed up the processes, public procurement procedures. I thank you once again on behalf of the SPS as I said in principle that we will support all the laws, and I thank you this time for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22014	I thank Mr Radenkovic, just to add that Mr. Arsic was entitled to a replica, so he took advantage of it through his address given by Mr. Janko Vesenovic, please. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22015	Thank you, Chairman. This is kind of a replica and Ms. Udovici and Mr. Arsic. Mr. Arsic said a 30m-euro savings in public procurement was made in nine months. Dear gentlemen, I didn't want to politicize this subject or politicize it, nor do I want to do it this time, but it's unfortunate what that savings has been achieved on. It's come true that the lady, of course, I won't tell her the name from Novi Sad for five months now, living in fear that she will pass on Hepatitis C to her granddaughter, especially because there is no PCR test for public procurement. Because there are no drugs and no sanity materials at the Nis Clinical Center for public procurement. Because there is no cure in Kruševec against the clotting of the blood of Sinkum 4, due to public procurement, etc., etc. Because children's hospitals don't have CTA machines and X-rays, and they can't be bought new because of everything the minister's been talking about. Although we have made this savings of 30m euros on our children's health, on the health of our citizens, that is a savings that is at the expense of citizens, to the detriment of our future. And that's why I insisted on this amendment. You say, Your Honor, this amendment is no place here. It's not up to you. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives said the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22016	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22017	I'm done. It is possible that this law should have been changed in more detail, as Mr. Arsic says, and I will agree with him there, but it should be done as soon as possible, as quickly as possible, so that these things do not happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22018	Thank you. According to the amendment, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22019	I just want to deny the Krusheve. There is a cure “farina, ” which is an adequate replacement, which is cheaper and which is in public procurement and acquired properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22020	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Before we move to the sixth item of the agenda, I'm ordering a two-minute break to be joined by the governor of the National Bank, Mrs. Jorgenka Tabakovic. I thank Minister Kori Udovici for his contribution to today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22021	You have received amendments submitted by MPs, as well as by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the committees responsible, as well as the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22022	I just wanted to thank the governor for accepting the amendment, as she promised in the principle debate. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22023	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic and joint MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22024	I wanted for this previous amendment that was accepted. I'll just be brief, I think it's good to keep that kind of reporting and control and thank you both for accepting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22025	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted the amendment to Article 19. Does the governor accept this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22027	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) I find that the amendment has been accepted by the Proposer. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, professor Dr Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr Blaže Bradic together submitted to the 22nd amendment. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22028	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Governor of the National Bank, distinguished guests, MPs, Article 22 speaks of responsibility and says in the first position – The National Bank of Serbia, Governor, Vice Governor, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees are not responsible for the damages incurred by the NBS, unless it is proved that they have not acted in good faith. The second position – For the damages of Article 1 of this Article, employees of that position may not be held responsible even after the employment relationship has ceased in the NBS, i.e. in the termination of the function. We have given the amendment, which reads in Article 22(1), changes and reads – National Bank of Serbia, Governor, Vice-Governmentals, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees respond to the general rules of responsibility for the damages resulting from their conduct in the conduct of the National Bank's affairs and we have proposed that Article 2 be deleted. In view of the importance and role of the NBS, we believe that both objective and subjective responsibility for the damage caused by the management of governors, vice governors, directors of the Supervisory Board and other employees should be established. The proposaler's solution excludes the objective responsibility of the NBS, which we find inadmissible given the importance of its powers in the banking sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22029	The word has the governor, Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22030	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I've listened to your reasons for similar solutions and for the laws proposed by the Ministry of Finance, or the Government, which are a package of these laws. I would like to repeat for public reasons why this amendment cannot be adopted. First of all, this is a solution that exists in our practice in the Law on the National Bank of Serbia since July 2010 and is a good practice in international institutions, is a practice in the EU, is an illustration for the sake of, the experience of Poland, Great Britain, Belgium and that kind of freedom that you will not respond unless you have done damage to extreme negligence and negligence does not exclude your responsibility that, if, if, by any functioner or one who performs a supervisory or control, the National Bank retains the right to prove that damage in the process and, if it is determined that it is done, with extreme negligence and negligence, which are the usual formulations, the National Bank reserves the right of that employee or functionary, even if it is no longer in a working relationship, to collect the damage it has done to some third party. So neither is this the right new to function as a National Bank or any employee now and this law introduces a law that has never existed before. On the contrary, a new obligation is introduced that if he was found to have worked in good faith, allegedly, and in fact had extreme negligence or negligence, that he should not answer for it, but also pay and compensate for that damage to the National Bank, and the National Bank certainly to third parties. Because of the public I want to say that this is not a new solution, but rather, the existing solution is complemented by a higher level of responsibility for very complex jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22031	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22032	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Governor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support the amendment of my colleague from the SDS. Simply, it seems to me that it is better defined, or better complemented by these two attitudes relating to responsibilities. If you look at the Law on Liabilities, maybe that previous solution was more acceptable than this one, and maybe this is a solution that colleagues suggest is even better prepared and defined, and in any case we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22033	Thank you. By amendment, MP Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22034	So, I absolutely support what you said, but what you said, Your Honor, it doesn't say. That's why it makes much more sense what we said, and that's what you said, what it says in our amendment. Thus, it is very wide “in good faith ” or“ in good will. ” I do not understand it, and since we are adopting laws here and we are deciding what law looks like and we are deciding how the Republic of Serbia works and what will be in this Republic, I consider and appeal to fellow MPs that our amendment is correct and I urge it to be supported, because it must be known clearly whether someone is responsible and when it is responsible. This "good will" is a very broad term and I have no doubt that you would give the correct information, but I think our solution is much better and I ask my colleagues to accept our amendment. Thank you. The word has a governor named Jorgenka Tabakovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22035	The term “in good faith” is a common termology in legal science and really does not mean a change of lower responsibility compared to the wording that you have said. I just want to say that it is the regressive right of the National Bank in relation to an employee who would do damage and has an obligation to make peace with the National Bank, or to a third party, in fact to apply the general rules of responsibility laid down by the Liaison Act. Be assured that the National Bank of Serbia will certainly act in the most responsible way, and the time before us will show. You can judge us in any way that allows legal procedures, but also the public of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22036	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22037	Thank you, President. I think that citizens who watch this transmission should know that, I'm sorry that my colleagues aren't here, one has no opportunity to attend, and the other has fled from the battlefield, as it is said, tired probably, neither do I, but it's not easy to talk all day about the amendments that read "expect", "expect", "expect", "expect". So from the first to the last amendment tabled by counterparts Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic "is deleted". Well, she's just doing the information, so the citizens of Serbia know how much they're fighting for citizens' rights, how much they're interested in the law. They simply look to make as many amendments as possible, so they can pick up some petty political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22038	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE BANKS You have received amendments submitted by the MPs, as well as by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the National Bank of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the governor, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22039	Since all day long, and in the absence of NBS representatives, there have been words that the NBS has accepted the amendment of Mr Zoran Zivkovic and his colleagues who were happy about it, I must explain to the public that the NBS has adopted an amendment to Article 1 which the Government has submitted and one such solution implies the ex-post erasure of a member who has also been filed by Mr Zivkovic and Mr Pavicevic, but that amendment has not been adopted for reasons which have been laid down in the tableded amendment by respected gentlemen, because their amendments are "delegated" and they have no explanation, but are already about the resulting amendment that the government has made, and the NBS has adopted, accepting the possibility that the legal technique systemises either through criminal provisions or that in the work where some supervisory penalties are provided for in that part of the law. I simply do not want to reduce his satisfaction, because they have submitted such an amendment, but I would like to inform the Serbian public that the amendment was not adopted because of their reasoning, but because it clearly coincided with the word "wipes" with the solutions that we have come up with in the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the text proposed by the NBS, which concerns criminal provisions. Just so there is no doubt that the gentleman mentioned has made a significant contribution to this law that is before you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22040	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dragan Jovanovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22041	One day later, she's back with the governor. As a matter of fact, we have talked today about the National Bank measures, the role of banks, the role of the Deposit Insurance Agency, and we have concluded that the same solutions are repeated everywhere that give too much authority to the National Bank, which give great privileges to people employed in the National Bank. We had just missed an amendment where it was said that in the National Assembly, the governor could change the vice governor and the director, I don't know which sector. Here in this amendment, i.e. in the article on which we submit the amendment, we propose that employees, who in some way have been delegated by the National Bank, who perform some of the functions in banks, control or others, have a certain degree of responsibility, because everywhere they avoid, or restricts the responsibility of governors and persons related to the work of the National Bank. This is a specific case and our proposal to avoid it. We believe that the National Bank and the banks have a social task, a social role, but that citizens must not be their hostages and have no protectors. The protector may be exclusively in the National Bank of RS, i.e. on behalf of and last name, that is, the Governor of the National Bank and Vice Governor. We think it was supposed to be implemented here, too. We don't think the control function of the National Bank has been sufficiently realised. By the way, Governor, you were a little off today. Did you solve this problem with savings in francs and savings that have euro...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22042	It's an amendment. We're not gonna spread the story. That's what you're gonna ask on Tuesday. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the post: Tomorrow are the issues of the Government? No, tomorrow's the vote. The word is Dr. Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22043	Something's going on with your laps, so I don't speak your language. You mean the problem of citizens who have loans in Swiss, and you're talking about savings that have savings in Swiss francs. I believe you've made a lapus. It's not a subject. In a competent place and at the right time, citizens will be informed. I have to let you know, too. There's no NBS too much authority. She has these powers to protect her from doing her job responsibly. Since 2010, almost identically defined. With these solutions, we introduce an additional measure of responsibility, and we've established that for a little while. To inform you, no director of the sector and the vice-governments, it is already the director of the Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions, which has been elected in this House as well as the Vice-Governors. On the contrary, there are original powers which are regulated by law unlike the vice governors who receive powers from the governor. I defend the legal solution by telling the truth about their responsibility, importance and need to be respected by this home to the extent that the law defines them. In no way does the responsibilities of the NBS employees fall, on the contrary, these legal solutions bring this responsibility to a higher level.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22044	Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. You do not have the right to reply, only if you wish for an amendment. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22045	Dear Governor, you have today's amendments to the National Bank Act allow yourself never to appear in this House of the National Assembly again. This is not correct toward the National Assembly, for the National Assembly has chosen you, and you are the most responsible person. So, you've made it possible, which didn't allow yourself any ministers to be...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22046	You're not talking about the amendment. You're replicating it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22047	On the other hand, which is why I mentioned the Swiss, because today you promised to give a solution today.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22048	There's no such thing in your amendment. (Janko Veselinovic, from the town: Ali has the citizens of Serbia. ) What about the citizens of Serbia and what they would say to you, so imagine what this session would look like. (Marco Djurisic, from place: wonderful.) It would look wonderful, I think. Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. We'd be very happy to discuss this in the College, but I'd like to ask the initiator of the College to list who's doing regular excesses here. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic together submitted the 20th amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22049	Dear Governor, we here, in one of these new members, which was proposed by this law, asked that the word "can be imposed", replace it with "it will be imposed". Generally, I have to admit that these members are completely confusingly written, that there is no clear procedure here under which conditions the National Bank reacts, which deadlines it gives. This position 5 of this Article 36v. It seems too high, for in the next position it says – if it is not possible to apply the position of the 5th member. I do not know what can not be applied in the position that is to say – if the Bank considers that the amended recovery plan did not remove the identified deficiencies, the NBS may impose, and we have asked for a "imposed" bank to, within a certain period of time, not longer than a month, change the recovery plan in a certain way and deliver such an amended plan. I don't understand, first of all, what can happen without this member being applied? It's completely superfluous, especially as it's written to be able to. In the next article he says – if something cannot be applied from this item 5, in which case the NBS will order a bank. We think that the word "impose" is more appropriate to this solution, and I generally think that this is the best proof of how rapid these changes and additions are. Why do we have to do this kind of emergency procedure at this time of day, night, when we've all been working all day? Why is he insisting on speed? Probably to hide something, because as described in this article, this recovery plan, how it is written, how it is being run, how the bank's behaviour is being controlled by this recovery plan, is simply not clear enough and I don't think it will contribute to the better work of the banking system and certainly will not contribute to the greater confidence of citizens in the banking system compared to what they have today, and they have it getting less and less, because NB is afraid of citizens' problems and the functioning of banks in the Republic of Serbia is silent.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22050	The word is Dr. Jorgenka Tabaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22051	You know what, first of all, I don't know if Mr. Vesenović knows anything about my future movement, behavior, health, astrology, what does he say, so I assure myself never to show up here again by leaving the possibility that people elected in the same procedure represent the views of the National Bank and the legal proposals as well as the governor. Don't worry, I feel really comfortable here, and I will be very happy to come to you to defend any solution that the NBS will never hide from you, especially in the legal text that was public, publicly available to the industry that it refers to in, not so long, but to a public debate on the National Bank site, delivered to the National Assembly. I really don't think it's right to say that something's trying to plant it. What's the problem? In interpreting the word "can order" or "impose"? Do you want to tell me that the word "can impose" excludes "a warrant"? No, it just gives a wider space, because no one knows in what circumstances this restructuring plan will take place, but always the reason for applying "can" or "impose" will be the best respect for public interest, the least cost and what is standard, will allow the bank that is in difficulty to perform its basic functions. Now, don't mind, I'm the governor, but I'm a living man. And I really want to ask how some of you woke up today as protectors of the citizens' interest? To what do we thank that change of attitude that you are now responding to the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22052	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22053	... People who do control, are no longer protected, or is the National Bank now not protecting interests, and has protected them before? That's what you need to explain to the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22054	Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blagoja Bradic put together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22055	I thank the esteemed president, the esteemed governor, respected colleagues and colleagues, in Article 21, we have proposed that attitude 2 be changed and read – the bank is obliged to apply international reporting standards from the day of their publication on the official website of the Ministry of Finance Affairs. I've seen the explanation. I would like to read our argument and that, perhaps once again, the governor gives an explanation why the amendment is not accepted, and according to the proposal, we can conclude that international standards are applied directly in a foreign language without official translation, and from the day the international body determines their application. For us from the SDS-ZZ-ZS parliamentary club, it is not disputed that the international body determines the application of standards, but it is also necessary to implement a certain internal procedure guaranteeing legal certainty. We would like it to be done properly and uniformly, and as the Accounting Act itself provides, the Ministry shall establish and publish an official translation of these standards. It seems to us that this would not affect the date of application set by the international body because the ministry should take care of it, and the establishment and publication of the official translation will be obtained by this date. We believe that the solution we propose to this amendment is better because it guarantees a higher level of legal certainty and guarantees uniformity in the application of standards, and thus better quality bank reporting, which, of course, we agree, finally leads to better control of their work, as shown in your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22056	Thank you. The word has the governor, Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22057	I will give you a brief explanation, that this member of the bank's law and their representatives had absolutely no objections, because it is also in their interest that an institution such as banks operating as daughters' banks on the market, which is without some borders of interstate interest as institutions of public interest as soon as possible to apply international accounting standards. It is particularly important that the report part in their business and absolutely did not have any objections because they are covered by the application of these accounting standards at the time of their adoption, precisely for the reason that there would be no discrepancies between what standards apply to banks in Serbia and what happens at international level. He was one of our proposals behind which we didn't intend to stand firm if it didn't suit them. On the contrary, the banks have declared that this suits them and that is the only reason why your amendment has been rejected. Please appreciate that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22058	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to Article 33. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 38 of the amendment, the MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Branka Karavidić, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Snezana Malović, Ivan Karic and Dr. Blaža Bradic together. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22059	I thank the esteemed chairman, the esteemed governor, the esteemed co-workers and colleagues, we have tabled this amended proposal with course a proposal to delete, but not in terms of how it has dominated the debate today. It seems to us that this amendment may introduce limited authority of the NBS and I am now looking at an explanation so that I can ask you for further clarifications or any further doubt, given that we are making, to say that I am making a partnership with some inspection services or with some other services that are overseeing, so it often happens that companies that need to carry out an inspection or some kind of surveillance are sending a car to the inspector, taking him to lunch afterwards, etc. Because of this intervention in this amendment, with a desire to avoid the fee that the NBS would pay, and I am prepared as a MP to support, better than budget, to keep the institution's independence, such as the NBS. Since it is said here that it is required to control the business of banks etc., I have another question that may be a little out of this topic, but how in one country with their currency banks issue loans in foreign currencies? I have one proposal, given what's going on in Hungary, that tomorrow you cancel all credits that are indexed in foreign currencies, and that we in our country are in debt for our money and that we return to our money loans. This, of course, is not your invention, but it was simply expected that in 2012, you would do so first, to remove all credits indexed in foreign currencies in a sovereign country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22060	Thank you. The word has a governor, Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22061	I will also talk about the amendment on this issue of yours – what does it mean to charge a supervisory commission in fact? I don't know how much you know, but I will tell you that such a practice exists in many countries in the environment, so, for example, in Hungary and Croatia, which you called for, but also in the National Bank of Serbia, there is a practice of charging the supervision of insurance companies. So far and nowhere has the problem of someone less professionally or beyond the limits of the law being in control. The independence of the central bank is guaranteed by law, not only on paper, we show it in practice, and I have to tell you that the independence and professionality of the one performing a certain control or a job depends primarily on how someone understands their job. Someone will, even without charging it or expecting some counterservice to do it, but these are exceptions in an under-quality way, but there are enough good control mechanisms in us, there are controls that not only one man does, they are done on the team. The Commission shall decide which parts of the control will be entered in the minutes. We have clearing meetings, like the State Auditing Institution, which on several occasions talks with those who are subject to control. Perhaps the National Bank should only work harder to bring this mechanism of control closer to the public, which would make the questions you are asking completely excessive. All the banks that had the chance to have insight into this had a bit of a joke -- is that an incestual fee for whoever's doing the control? They got an answer from me by asking questions - I'm sorry, but the audit is paid, but it has to be done in a quality and independent way. The internal audit in each company is paid, so it is required to work in a legally established way, so that these are arguments that, wanting to raise the supervisory system to one higher level and to transfer the practice from insurance control to banks, we have introduced one such provision, and it will certainly not come out of something that is suitable for compensation, which will not burden the users with anything, and will contribute to better control of the banking system. I don't want to open up a topic that's no place at this time and in here, but surely there's room to talk about what you mentioned, borrowing in dinars and dinarization as a process, but I don't want to go into the process of the futility of contracts and returns, giving a proportion of the possibility of doing it. There'll probably be more stories about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22062	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 48a be added after Article 48a. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a governor, Dr. Jorgenka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22063	This is the situation I explained at the beginning of the debate, that we only changed the place by the criminal provisions of the amendment to the government, which has produced great satisfaction with colleagues Pavicevic and his parliamentary group, where their amendment as "expunges" has been adopted, which I only wanted to explain that it is entirely accidental to enroll in the number of those whose amendments have been adopted, unlike colleagues who have really made a good contribution to improving this law, which I thank them for.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22064	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22065	Only for a very short time, with all due respect to the governor, that Serbian citizens do not wrongly understand that the mentioned gentlemen have a parliamentary group and do not have a parliamentary group, they are independent MPs. Just for the sake of explaining and informing the citizens who are following this transmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22066	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia and joint MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic submitted to the 56th amendment, in the same text. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 57th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 60th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Dr Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is Mr. Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22067	Thank you, Vice President. I must once again report that the citizens of Serbia know what amendments you are reading. So, from the first to the 62th, the amendment is written – deleted, deleted, deleted, deleted, deleted. Since Honorable counterpart Pavicevic often mentions Twitter, I also took pictures and put on Twitter these amendments, let those who follow him represent their interests here in parliament, in what way. I think this may be a legitimate and well-known way of fighting politically, but I don't think it's correct. We are MPs here, and we need to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This is the twisting of the Rules of Procedure. Deleted, deleted, it's just creating some space to eventually get Col. Pavicevic tired and had to retire. I feel sorry for him, I'd love to hear all these arguments that need to be erased. What kind of way is it to delete a member of the law? Then what does it come to? I simply took the opportunity to report that Serbian citizens know that they are being deceived, that they are not at all fighting for their rights in this way. Delete, delete, delete, delete, I don't think that's right, that it's not correct and that we're staying this long. It's not a problem, if it has to be, we'll stay this long, but let's talk about meaningful amendments, not the amendments that it says: delete, delete, delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22068	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22069	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that the injured member of Article 106(1) says – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. A co-worker keeps reporting and criticising the amendments, not their content, and what they wanted to achieve with that amendment. It is legitimate for every MP to propose an amendment, including an amendment, to be deleted. The legitimate right of the MPs of this Assembly is that the violence that the ruling majority here is committing against us, by passing laws in an urgent time after an emergency procedure, is answered by submitting an amendment to each member – it is deleted. A colleague, Pavicevic, spoke and participated actively in the debate today for almost 10 hours. If there's no more power, it's not right that now that he's gone, someone finds courage and starts calling him. He could have called when Pavicevic was there, so that every time on his amendment he would say something about it and the reasons why these amendments were submitted, not now that they were not there to take advantage of that opportunity and be brave. I ask you to respect this Rules of Procedure and Parliament's dignity and to end this debate in a manner appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22070	Thank you. Mr. Djurishic, I ask you to behave in accordance with Article 106. You did advertise the Rules of Procedure. I didn't do anything wrong, nothing that was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I could see in Mr. Radenkovic's presentation, because he quoted the amendment and I don't see anything wrong with it. Do you want to vote on the day of the vote to get the Assembly to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Radenkovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22071	It's a good thing that respected colleagues have lawyers and it's legitimate, just maybe, to see that authority. So I repeat once again that I think the amendments -- delete, delete, delete, I don't know what we'd be talking about? What kind of controversy would be about when someone submits an amendment to Article 1 to 62. - Deleted? What young people might understand is those who are informatively educated, that is, "kopi-paist", "kopi-paist". You don't need much effort here. Dear counterpart Pavicevic, I see that he follows closely the Assembly's meeting from wherever it follows him. I see he's following everything that's going on on Twitter, so I think he's entitled to comment on that social network. He may have defined himself in such a way as to address his constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22072	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Dr Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22073	They've been injured. 106th and 107th. The Rules of Procedure have been re-injured. You were obliged, the Honorable Chairman, to warn Mr Radenkovic because he did not speak on the subject of the agenda, but to speak again in the same way about the MP who defended the amendments here today for 10 hours in a legitimate manner, which were assessed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. It's his way of opposing these laws. We chose the other one. We chose to try to fix the law. He chose his own way and it is not correct, chairing, to allow anyone to be demeaned by any MP in a way that he could not stand to work 12 hours instead of 10 hours, and for 10 hours he spoke, and that is not little, that someone is saying who almost first reported to him today, to speak so badly of him. We're not their lawyers, lawyers broke up the strike the other day and started their very responsible work. We are not lawyers, but we are MPs, defending our parliamentary integrity and integrity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22074	Col. Veseinovic, several MPs spoke today about the way Mr. Zoran Zivkovic and Pavicevic are making amendments and you are now, after almost 12 hours of debate, advertising it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure? How else do I think it is, rather than representing or defending colleagues, Pavicevic? He did not leave this parliament to not return and will certainly have the opportunity to respond to Mr Radenkovic. So I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking if you'd like to vote in the day for the Assembly to come forward? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22075	Comrade Arsic, please, how much time is left for the MP's group?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22076	There's 31 minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22077	I think it'll be enough to cover this discussion. I don't think the amendments are just being defended verbally, they're defending themselves by voting. Since counterpart Pavicevic is not there, I will vote for his amendment, and since he hardly ever votes for his amendments, and he has proposed hundreds of these amendments, I am not reducing the quality of the proposings. But here, I may vote 11th time for his amendment, since he is not present here, but I will solidify and vote for his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-02-02-0.u22078	The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The National Bank of Serbia and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Chapo together submitted to the 62nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Tuesday, February 3, 2015, starting at 12:00, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Thank you.
