ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 140 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24313	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the presidency, I would like to introduce you to a problem that most of our country's parts are likely to have, but it is indeed the most prominent and prominent problem in Sandzak. In fact, I want to point out the problem of persons who really have a long-term and painful process are passing through in the process of exercising the right to get citizenship. It's really emphasized in my area and I almost every week have one call from people who exercise all rights and have all the conditions to make that practically a request for citizenship come true. I have officially asked the New Market Police Department to give me how many people in the last five years, or ten years, have requested this approval, and I have come to the conclusion that in the last five years about 5,200 people have asked for it, and that around 2,730 persons have received, in practice, confirmation and received a positive response to the request for citizenship. In the last ten years, about 7,000 people have submitted the request, and about 3,500 people have received it. So about 3,500 people in Novi Pazar and the surrounding area have not resolved their status and is absolutely in one waiting status and this wait can be up to five years. I must stress that this is a period during which these persons cannot exercise all rights, the right to work in state institutions, the right to complete health care, etc. It's a real big problem for them. Novi Pazar is the centre of economic, cultural, industrial, Bosniak practically the largest city in the Republic of Serbia and there is a truly large number of people from northern Kosovo, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, respectively. Of course, these are young people, and the largest number of these are practically requirements, at the request of marriage rights, and these are young people who founded their families in Novi Pazar, and they want to develop their business and their families. I can say it's about perspective, honorable people, mostly mothers of whom the community at the bar, and generally in the country itself has great really great good conditions and are really important for the development of our entire society. The other certainly group is people from Sandzak, living in Turkey, mostly successful businessmen, people who want to expand and expand their business and to our end, to our country. Of course, there are family ties and certainly love for their mother, and we certainly need to enable these people to get this right as quickly and as quickly as possible and in a better way. So I would like to ask the Ministry of Interior and Minister Stefanovic to strengthen the staff and in any way this service, that these people really do not wait this long if they have all the conditions, because I must stress that this is a place where there can be a lot of abuse and that narrow throat can be the source of various corruption. In order to avoid these insinuations completely, in order to make it practically as high as possible and as quickly as possible for these people to get their right to citizenship, I would ask the Ministry to strengthen this structure, because people are the main resource of every country, so that it should also implore to the state of Serbia that so many people are seeking citizenship and that so many people want to live and develop their business in this country, especially at a time when this country has a decline in population and this country has strong migration. I think these men of ours should accept both hands and give them this right that belongs to them as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24314	Thank you. The word has Dr Ljiljana Kosorić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24315	Thank you very much. I ask the question to Minister Verbić – what did the Ministry of Education of Science and Technological Development suggest when, based on the regional plan of enrolment in the Goldenobor County High School, the Technical School in Koserić proposed that instead of the current electrical direction, the interest of the computer’s electrician, otherwise four-year school, the competition for the new area in 2015 and 2016 – computer engineering and processing, three-year school? Have they taken into account the conditions already in place for the sustainability of the Technical School so far, i.e. The unsustainability of the newly opened Machine school? The fact is that such a plan for regional school enrolment in high school has not been supported by either local community or business organisations, nor students, nor parents. I must point out that immediately after receiving the memo and receiving the enrollment plan for the next school year, the Technical School Kosjerić announced and sent a letter to the Ministry stating that their collective does not agree with such an enrolment plan and simply advocates the survival of the electrical direction, thinking that its abolition would adversely affect the future of the school. They further point out - so we ask you to understand us and advocate our position on which not only depends on the survival of this only high school institution in the city, but also the perspective of young people in the municipality of Kosjerić. In addition to this letter from the Technical School collective, the opinion of the teaching council was forwarded to the Ministry, a positive opinion on the survival of the previous school, as well as the opinion of the student parliament and the opinion of business organisations. What's the facts here? First of all, the interest of young people who finish primary schools for enrolment in three-year-old schools for this profile is very small, as the survey showed, as well as students and parents, which was conducted in the municipality of Kosjerić. Furthermore, because of the fact, and I think that this fact is also most important, so, because of the fact that many companies where students would be doing practical work have been shut down, there are no conditions to carry out practical teaching in the directions offered and given by the Ministry's proposal. My opinion is if this decision by the Ministry to shut down a four-year school and to open a three-year final definition of the Ministry, then it would certainly take time for students to be motivated and to promote the enrollment of students in this kind of school to do a lot of work and especially for this particular educational profile, and since there are no conditions already proposed by the Ministry, and the school has worked with a certain staff so far, a certain equipment, why not define themselves for a three-year school as a "siensi" computer management operator or something like that, if it is so important for the ministry to shut down four-year-old schools and introduce three-year-old schools. Furthermore, it is not negligible that the technical school in Koserić owns a professional staff, on which she has worked, as well as the equipment of cabinets, more than 50 computers and where a lot of funds have been invested, both their personal and local communities, so that the opening of the machinery school would certainly require additional funding. The most basic thing is that students in recent years have achieved very good results in technical school, won republican competitions, and many of them have enrolled and completed colleges.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24316	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24317	I would really ask this question – what was the Ministry's conduct? I'd like to get a quick answer, i.e. within the legal deadline, and to seriously consider this appeal, both local communities and businesses and schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24318	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24319	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I would ask you, the Honorable Chairman, and Mrs. President to make sure that the institutions to which MPs deliver parliamentary questions respect deadlines and to provide their answers in time. We asked the Prime Minister to answer who allowed the coalition in Novi Pazar to renegotiate the city far above the allowed amount, which, according to our data, amounts to more than three budgets. Under the law of so much debt, the Government's approval is particularly necessary. I repeat the question now and ask for an urgent answer – who, on behalf of the Serbian government and on what grounds, has allowed the re-loaning of the city of Novi Pazar and to whom does it correspond to its further collapse? If no one from the government has allowed it, I ask again – what will the government do to punish those responsible for these illegalities? I have indicated that public enterprises are in a catastrophic state, especially those headed by ministers Ljajic, who have been destroying the entire city for eight years, as long as they are in power. Meanwhile, accounts of all New Pazar public enterprises run by Ljajic's personnel have been blocked, and the accounts of all schools in Novi Pazar have been blocked long before. According to NBS, so far, accounts of three of the six Novopazar public enterprises have been blocked at 131 million dinars. So far, it's 1.1m euros and not all claims. This should also be added to unpaid salaries to workers, who in some companies are 10, 12, and even 22 months late. Also, the contribution to the PIO has not been paid for up to three years. The human dignity of honest workers has been violated here, and they today, in addition to all these humiliations that suffer, cannot even exercise the basic right to compulsory health insurance, are forced to pay for all health services because they cannot verify their health books. We can start in a row, the City Construction Directorate's account has been blocked for nearly 103.8 million dinars since 25th of September 2012 and currently the amount of the blockade is 18.8 million dinars, and the NBS imposed a ban on all assets in all banks in the country in August 2014. Among the blocked companies is a public information company, i.e. the regional TV station Novi Pazar, which is used by the party Rasim Ljajic as his party bulletin, which is blocked by 8.5 million dinars. However, when it comes to regional television, this is not the only malfeasance about it. A few months ago, the sale of this 460,000-euro TV was announced, and the price includes the social programme, more specifically, compensation for the excess employees to be paid by a potential buyer of the television. The company "Vision" appeared as a buyer, otherwise owned by current director Denis Mavric, Kadr Rasim Ljajic. A few months ago, he phantomally transferred management rights to a friend, and after establishing the total price, and before selling regional television, the coalition in Novi Pazar is making a decision to lay off 51 workers of regional television, to whom severances will be paid out of the city budget of Novi Pazar, so what was the customer's obligation. This is an open robbery of the citizens of New Pazar. That is why I ask the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime to examine the role and connection of Minister of Telecommunications Rasim Ljajic, Mayor Meh Mahmutovic, TV director Denis Mavric and the company "Visija". I expect that the government will urgently address this problem as soon as possible and will stop the collapse of the New Market, because if this kind of collapse continues, the question is whether anyone will already be able to extract the city from this debt slavery that the current coalition has introduced it into the government for eight years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24320	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24321	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask a question on Beocin Municipality's initiative, and this is about the introduction of communal fees. In fact, most of the laws adopted by the Serbian Parliament in recent years have brought new powers to local self-government units, which is on the one hand for respect, as it could be subdued under the principle of decentralisation of government. In the course of the transaction, the resources necessary for the exercise of delegated powers were not taken into account. In most cases, unfortunately, we also have the fact that no sublegal acts have been passed, so that you can talk about a kind of paralysis of implementing legislation when it comes to local self-government, so it's very little in all areas. But in this case, I want to focus only on this area relating to municipal fees, because it is as one of the outstanding examples where the law abolishes one kind of income of local self-government, another law sets out new income and, unfortunately, the non-legislative acts prevents local self-government from fulfilling its legal obligations. I would like to remind you that the Law on Community Works has defined 14 activities as a communal obligation of local self-government and, when looking at the list, it is clear that these are the activities of the highest importance for the achievement of the needs of the population. I also want to read them, so that both citizens and MPs know what these obligations are about. First of all, there's drinking water supply. Second, purification and disposal of atmospheric and waste water. Then, production and distribution of heat. Fourth, municipal waste management, Serbian cancer, unfortunately. Fifth, city and suburban passenger transport. Sixth, cemetery management and funeral services. Seven, public parking control. Eight, public lighting. Ninth, market management. Tenth, maintenance of the streets and traveling to the level of municipalities. Then, maintaining cleanliness on the surfaces of public purposes. Next, maintenance of public green areas. Further, chimney services and zoo hygiene. It's not a waste of reminding me of these obligations. In other words, the local self-government unit is obliged to create conditions and ensure quality, scope, availability and continuity in providing all of these services that I have stated. The question of sustainability of all municipal systems in the local environment is raised, precisely because they do not have provision of compensation, i.e. funds. As regards compensation, what has been used so far under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Planning and Construction, it was prescribed that: ‘The compensation for the use of construction land is paid in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction’, ‘The Official Messenger’ of 2006, while the said fee is not integrated into property tax and no later than 13. 12. 2013 As a substitute for this income, units of local self-government or as a way to provide funds for the development of municipal infrastructure and to carry out activities of general interest, Article 45. The Law on Community Works is given the possibility, since a municipal fee is prescribed as one of the revenues of local self-government, this law stipulates that the next day will be charged from the day of the termination of the fee for the use of construction land in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction. In other words, by abolishing one fee, a new fee is imposed as a communal fee and no later than 1. 1. 2014 In 2015, we are this sublegal act, which was supposed to regulate these municipal fees, I apologize to the chairman but I am almost not hearing myself, the question is when will this replacement occur, i.e. the introduction of a communal fee, i.e. the adoption of these regulations and the normal sustainability of the municipal system in local self-government? I'm glad the Minister's here. We are asking for an answer from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance, and I think it would be good for the Ministry of Local Self-Government to be also one of those who will respond, when an act will be adopted in accordance with Article 27. The Law on Community Works, which should prescribe who are bonds of municipal compensation, the basis for the calculation of these fees, the criteria for the accounting of municipal fees, the most amounts for these municipal fees, who will be exempt from their payment and simply determine the amounts that will allow local self-governments to charge these fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24322	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24323	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions and I would like answers and explanations from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or from the Secretary-General of the Government. My first question concerns, unfortunately, these difficult weather conditions or the troubles we have at the beginning of this calendar year 2015, when more than 20 towns and municipalities in Serbia introduced an emergency on the part of their territory or entirely on the territory of their cities and municipalities, unfortunately due to massive rainfall. There are great damages, both on infrastructure and on agricultural holdings, households, etc. My question to the Secretary-General of the Government – did the Commission for Fundamental Accidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia provide financial assistance to cities and municipalities most affected by these elemental disasters as of 1 January 2015 and if not, when will it meet and when will the requirements of local self-government that are calling for help be made known? My second question is for the country's rebuilding office. Do the office and its president have a clear resolution program? When we talk about rinks, the most common thing is the big slides that hit the infrastructure on the state roads, first and second, first and foremost. But first of all, I am asking a question about the rinks that are in the municipalities and cities of Serbia, which are in private households of Serbian citizens and where, due to the new Public Procurement Act, to resuscitate those rinks, it takes a very complicated procedure that these citizens most often cannot wait for. What exactly is this about? It's just that it happens that during the night, the country goes and threatens households, housing houses, auxiliary buildings, buildings, especially in the rural area, and then we come into a situation where citizens come to municipalities, to the local municipal departments and beg for help, and we have no way and precise mechanisms to help these people. That's why I'm asking and asking, first of all, the Office for the Reconstruction of the Land, which has this part in its work, to find a clear mechanism in which we can help these people. Another issue related to the government, i.e. for the Minister of Agriculture and Water Affairs, and this is – is the current 2015 "Serbia" work plan adopted? Why is this an important question? Here, we already have in this 2015, unfortunately, that some citizens who are next to first-class waterways, not to mention now rivers from Morava, Kolubara, Jasenica and all other rivers in Serbia are flooded for the third time in the same year. I really don't see what's supposed to happen anymore that the "Serbians" are starting with serious work on these water streams that are clearly under the law in their jurisdiction, that no more transfers of balls between local self-government and the Republic Water Directorate and the JP "Serbia", but that in a clear way it knows whether this plan has been adopted and how much work on first-class waterways is foreseen for the calendar year 2015. My last question is for the resolution minister of transport, construction and infrastructure, and it concerns the work of the JP "Post of Serbia". We welcome the success of the work of this public company, but I have a question that is also about the work of all, above all, public enterprises at the local level, and that is -- when will the "Post-Serbia" monopoly be abolished to hand over shipments to 100 grams? This is very important, because municipal companies and local tax administrations send bills, and these accounts, for example, to carry out garbage or water in certain rural areas, range from 120 to 150 dinars, and the shipment itself is fixed at 20 dinars. Then, when you have a monopoly like this, it's extremely easy for you to manage such a public enterprise. On the other hand, the additional problem is that in the rural area, mailers don't deliver the shipment directly to consumers, they leave it to local stores, so citizens need to manage themselves and go to those accounts. Of course, then we have problems with the charge, and then we're saying, what my colleagues were saying, that we have a problem with the functioning of public enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24324	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The questions I will raise today are referred to the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, which are related to the application of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance adopted in the National Assembly on 30 May of last year. The law stipulates that an employer, a legal person, or an entrepreneur who employs a new person, has the right to recover part of paid contributions to compulsory social security on the basis of earnings for a new employee. It is predicted that a relief in this regard can be achieved by the employer if the establishment of a working relationship with a newly employed person increases the number of employees in the employer compared to the number of employees on 31 March 2014. Article 2 paragraph 9 also provides that the refund of paid contributions made in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure and the tax administration must be made within 15 days of the date of submission of the request for reimbursement to the competent tax authority. Also on July 5th, as the law applies from July 1st last year, the Tax Administration has published a user manual on how to restore part of paid taxes and contributions after deduction for newly employed workers as of July 5th. However, according to complaints received by the Tax Administration, that law does not apply at all, so I ask the following questions. How many requirements for the refund of part of the tax paid and the deductions for newly employed workers have the economic operators in Serbia submitted to the tax administration? How many newly employed persons are covered by these requirements and how much money is needed for vomiting? My question is directed so that the data is shown by months from July 2014 until March 2015. Furthermore, how many of these requirements have been processed and for how much has the refund been made, of course in accordance with the law? Also, I ask that the data also contain concrete amounts that have been paid for months. The final question to the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration – why the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance adopted by the National Assembly on 30 May 2014, particularly Article 2 of Article 9 of that Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24326	The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24327	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask the Ministry of Economy, Mr Sertic. I believe there is not a single colleague and colleagues in this room who are indifferent to the fate that took place "Belgrade Film" in 2007 when Belgrade lost all 14 cinemas by criminal privatisation. As many of you approached me and supported me for continuing to deal with this topic, trying to get at least a few movies back in Belgrade. This is why I believe that you will be interested in selling "Avala Film" announced for April 22nd. This sale reminds many of the "Belgrade Film" criminal sales. As "Belkan" also sells "Balkan" cinemas, the oldest cinema in the Balkans opened in 1912, the movie "Star" by the oldest photography studio, both cinemas in buildings of cultural importance and under the protection of the state. So now, with the property "Avala Film" once the largest studio in the Balkans is sold over 200 films representing the country's cultural heritage. I've been working on this subject for years. Last April, I asked the government of the Republic of Serbia a parliamentary question regarding the fate of "Avala Film". I deliberately bypassed the Ministry of Culture because of their tendency to declare my questions about important cultural topics including "Belgrade film" to be incompetent. I got the answer in August from the Ministry of Culture. You're guessing, the answer was that they weren't in charge. But not to enter the domain of Kafka's literature or the theatre of absurd Beket June reminding myself of a citizen who goes from the counter to the counter looking for who's in charge now I'm asking Mr. Sertic and the Ministry of Industry in the desire that by April 22nd, when the sale was advertised, I will be able to reach the right counter. So, what is sold in the bankruptcy table of the Avala Film for about ninem euros. In addition to 200 films, they sell downed studies, robbed funds, set-ups, costumes, a lab that doesn't work. Why would anyone buy all that? The answer is the same as in the case of "Belgrade Film". "Belgrade film" the buyer did not see as cinemas, culturally good, but squares of business space estimated at over 50m euros. Here the future buyer sees no film study as cultural heritage but 37 ha of building land at one of the most attractive locations in Belgrade. The real value of this land is between 80m and 100m euros. So ten times the offered price. What tycoon is this incredibly profitable job for? Is it possible she didn't learn any lessons from the sale of "Belgrade Film"? I will remind it of a sale that ended in scandals, prisons and that left Belgrade's citizens without cultural institutions. There is nothing left for me but to be persistent and raise my voice against the new, per Serbian citizens, even more harmful sales. I have nothing left to do but repeat my proposal that would allow all Serbian citizens to benefit from "Avala Film". I suggest we stop this sale, immediately, before the bidding on April 22nd. I suggest that a film fund belonging to the Avala film be nationalised. This has been done by many Eastern European countries in the case of their state studies and films produced by these studies. The debt to creditors caused by "Avala Film" went bankrupt, and creditors are under threem euros in public enterprises. I suggest that the state make up for that debt, that the state in co-operation with the city converts land and then sell 37 ha of Avala film in a fair tender. This money could restore Serbia's entire cultural infrastructure, open and digitise dozens of cinemas, restore the network of cultural homes, build an opera, a modern gallery and many other things that all citizens would benefit from. We live in a society where more than half of the inhabited places have no bookstore in their midst, 70% have no theater and no cinema. I keep saying that culture doesn't have enough money and that there are other priorities. At the same time, we are ready to hand over tens of millions of euros to make culture more accessible to everyone in the hands of a tycoon so that it becomes even richer. The issue of "Avala Film" exceeds the question of culture. It raises the question of social justice, morals and ethics. It raises the question of the interest of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24328	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24329	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I have a few questions for the Serbian government in the hope that they will finally start answering parliamentary questions this time. The first question is the addition of my colleague Gordana Comic's questions regarding the report on helicopter crash and the tragic death of seven Serbian citizens. So I'm only interested in the addition, so two new questions to the defence minister and the Prime Minister. How does Kruševac get to Belgrade in 30 minutes? Question for Minister Gasic. Since, taking into account the government's statement of Minister Gasic's stay in Krusevec, and his later arrival at the scene, we calculated that he needed 30 minutes, record-breaking from Krusevic to Belgrade. So the question, how did he do it? What means of transport? And might Minister Gasic have used some new helicopter to come looking for people after this tragic accident? The second question is for the Prime Minister - when, in what way and within what time will he be able to persuade Minister Vulin to do his job, not to open new wars, verbal in the region, and to deal with social and martial arts, since it appears that Minister Vulin has taken over the foreign affairs minister's authority which has silenced and caused and corresponded to the Croatian prime minister's statement additionally warmed the otherwise hot atmosphere in relations between Croatia and Serbia, which he has shown, and what particularly concerns us as Serbian MPs and citizens, I quote Prime Minister Vukic - that Minister Vulin is smarter than Prime Minister Vukic? That's what we're really worried about. We ask the prime minister -- is it possible that Minister Vulin is smarter than Prime Minister Vukic? If true, then why not replace them, since it seems to you that Minister Vulin is speaking according to someone else's instructions about what he is saying and disrupting relations, causing and causing a huge problem in the region, regardless of the incorrect elements and statements and Croatian Prime Minister, and especially the answers of Croatian counterparts to Minister Vulin? The third question, please, if you can keep it quiet, I think it's useful for you, since I know you agree. The next question is for the energy minister, and it concerns a problematic tender for ousting water from Tamnava, which has won the company "South Baka". How is it possible, Minister Antića, to get an extension of the 120-day window of water, when she received in the tender that she would do so in 90 days, thus beating the others who gave up their participation in this tender? Why did you extend them to 120 days and how much? Question, Minister Antic, which firm, with how many employees and who owns this company all this time while a spear was flooded in Tamnava is importing coal for our thermal power plant? Please answer me. As far as we're concerned, the question for the Minister of Trade Ljajic and the President of the Chamber of Commerce, which has not had a day of experience in the economy, which company, who owns the company and the first five companies that export apples to the Russian Federation market in the last two months, that the deliveries that they own, who owns them, how many employees and what revenue have they made, because we suspect that it is an apple re-export on the Russian market from the EU? I am also interested in whether it is true for the Minister of Health, Loncar and the Director of RFZO, that pregnant women in Serbia do not receive compensation for pregnancy, even though you announced on March 10th that they will be resolved? The next question, Kostolac, Minister Antića, is another question for you – when and how will four EPS companies return to the EPS workers who blocked Kostolac for several days and with whom you have at least had so much decency and strength to go out and talk? Inform the National Assembly when you will return them to the EPS, under which conditions and with clear deadlines, since, not personally, you are Minister Antića, but it has been promised several times. Finally, a question for Minister Sertic, what will he do with "The First Five-year-old", "14. by October, "Zupom" and "Tralalam", because their workers expect to solve their existential problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24330	Time. The word has been issued by MP Aleksandar Markovic, an authorised representative of the SNS, to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24331	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want to waste my time and my citizens' money, so that in the time foreseen for the parliamentary issues I deal with and refer to the irresponsible and untrue statements of the predecessors, but simply, I have to give him some advice, which is to deal with the fact that Serbian citizens have already given him a nickname and that nickname is Borko Prada, probably referring to the fact that he wears expensive suits, expensive watches, expensive shoes, we just don't know of which money. I'm just going to give a kind piece of advice, which is to try to get his party president, Bojan Pajtic, to finally start doing his job, for which he was paid by the citizens of Vojvodina. A man is never at work. But I don't want to waste my time and my citizens' money. I would like to ask a parliamentary question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. My parliamentary question concerns the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. I'd like to express my satisfaction that Mrs. Udovici, the resolute minister, is here today. I question the Ministry of State Administration for reasons why the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government performs the tasks of state administration relating to the system of local self-government and territorial autonomy, guidance and support to local self-government units in ensuring the legality and efficiency of work. That's why I ask them. Namely, what the ministry will do about writing in the Belgrade press, in particular, a Belgrade newspaper published an article a few days ago entitled that Vracar's first man was honoring his mother's fund with municipal money. Under the heading of the text, the resignation of the first man of Vrachar is proposed. The anthropy of the article mentioned mentions that Vračar Municipality President Branimir Kuzmanovic financed from municipal budget the work of the Foundation for talent, whose manager is none other than his mother. It's interesting that this is an assessment of the Anti-Corruption Agency, so it's not a flat-rate assessment, it's not an individual's attitude. This was assessed by the Anti-Corruption Agency and concluded that Branimir Kuzmanovic is in conflict of interest for this reason, and therefore recommended a public-function resolution measure. The Agency's solution states that Kuzmanovic violated the Agency's Law and that, as the president of the municipality, made decisions on the selection of projects of the Vračar Municipality's Vračar Foundation, whose head, Verica Brancic, was his mother. I quote this article now. It is three projects in three years, totaling 550,000 dinars, financed from the municipal budget. It is also said that Kuzmanovic made decisions on the basis of which a three-time aid was paid to the Trust Fund on three occasions, meaning, from 2010 to 2012, totalling 130,000 dinars. The Agency's solution also said that Kuzmanovic had had a conflict of interest in these situations in writing to inform both So Vračar and the Anti-Corruption Agency, but he said he did not. Also, the Foundation, compared to other NGOs, went to the most convincing of all money. The truth is Branimir Kuzmanovic came forward, trying to say he was not familiar with the Agency's solution, but announced he would deal with the Agency's recommendations. Unfortunately, most Vrakar citizens, the municipality still has DS in power, and this example is an excellent indicator of the essence of their government. This also shows their relationship with the state and with the property and with the budget. This shows their relationship with the municipality they govern. It shows what their understanding of politics and politics is like. I firmly believe that such nepotistic examples exist in some other municipalities where it is in the power of the DS. I firmly believe that such a nepotistic example exists in others, in fact, in the Dukean administration, so-called. The Duke's Government, where Bojan Pajtic is in power with an unfulfilled 6% of the population of Vojvodina. I'm looking forward to one thing, which is that the citizens of Vrachar have organized themselves. A letter came to me in the mailbox this morning with a question – do we need a president like this? I join the citizens of Vračar and ask the question – do we need a president like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24332	Time. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Dear People's MPs, before we continue our work, please pay our respects to Velimir Rakic, the MP of the Serb List in the Kosovo Assembly, who tragically died in a car accident. Praise him. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. You were presented the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Since most of the people's MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the record. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Issues has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, held 3, 4, 5, 6 and 10 March 2015. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 39 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the agenda of the emergency proceedings, on proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and on a proposal for the examination to be carried out immediately following the principled review of the draft law. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the motion for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time at the judge's office, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 March 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 185 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Legislatives of the National Assembly has proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 13(3), point 5. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 72/09/52/11 and 55/13, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 March 2015 (point 3 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 41 of the 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradic suggested that the draft law amending the health insurance law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 178 of the total of 190 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic, based on Articles 92, 2nd and 4th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2014. Do MPs Zoran Zivkovic or Vladimir Pavicevic want a word? The word is Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24333	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Udovici, honored guests and guests from the Ministry, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Bečić, we consider, the submissions of this proposal to the Law on Higher Education, that it is high time that as one point of the agenda of a National Assembly also a point of discussion on the proposal for the completion of the Law on Higher Education. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you now for some attention, since this proposal complements the debate on an important principle that should be one of the basic principles of our higher education system, gentlemen, and that is the principle of academic honesty. We suggest that the principle of academic integrity become one of the basic principles of our higher education system, and in one special member we define the meaning of the principle of academic integrity that no one in our country nor in the National Assembly would live in ignorance of what academic integrity means. Academic congratulation, gentlemen, is based on the independent work of writing and strict respect for other people's copyrights. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I don't understand why any of us in this assembly of the National Assembly would, for example, be opposed to us discussing this proposal to supplement the Law on Higher Education. Dear gentlemen, I believe that part of the debate on our proposal for a law on the completion of the Law on Higher Education should also be directed to see whether the principle of the public of what is contained in the doctoral dissertation is respected now, but not only of the content of the doctoral dissertations, but to see what is contained in the public must have and when we talk about elections to the public, so that we can also discuss whether, for example, for the choice in calling regular professors at different universities, different universities, indeed, all the criteria are met and that here, the Honored Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr Becic, and ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have a reasoned debate on the state of the system of higher education in our country. It is my expectation that we will all vote for this proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24334	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – three, abstention – one, 162 of the 186 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the session on the agenda – the Bill on Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which a group of 12 MPs from the Boris Tadic-SDS, submitted to the National Assembly in Serbia, on 25 February 2015. Does the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? Dr. Janko Veselinović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24335	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our SDS MP group, Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, has submitted a proposal for three laws that should have been corrected, we could say the unexplainable position of citizens who have loans indexed in Swiss francs, but also citizens who have loans indexed in euro. Due to the fluctuation in the course of the Swiss franc in recent months, these citizens have been brought into a situation that they have no way out of and without a responsible state relationship, we will continue to be forced to leave the country by citizens such as famous actors, scientists, etc. These are the people who took the loans seven, eight years ago, worth, say, 50,000 euros, paid off for 10 years and now have a 70,000-euro loan. So the longer they pay them off, the bigger the loans. The National Bank of Serbia has done nothing to resolve the issue and this shows the protest of the Efficient Association, thousands of citizens who have gathered before the National Bank of Serbia last Saturday, and they are not happy that on Saturday, instead of their home peace, they must seek justice in front of the National Bank of Serbia and the Government of Serbia, etc, because their roof is threatened and because they will very soon remain without it unless the National Bank of Serbia, but above all, the Serbian government does nothing. We have proposed three laws, amendments to the National Bank Act, amendments to the Consumers Act, i.e. users of financial services, and in particular laws that would regulate the situation of savings in Swiss francs, meaning whose loans are indexed in Swiss francs. When it comes to the National Bank, we have proposed a law that would allow the National Bank to have greater powers in the control of banks which are irresponsible to loan users and which practically do what is in the interest of banks, which is entirely against the interest of credit users, which also shows that their credits are growing and that banks are taking a growing profit. That is why we have proposed to the National Bank and the Government of Serbia that the National Bank Act be corrected. The answer from the People's Bank, we didn't get it I asked for a conversation with the governor of the National Bank, but it didn't come to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24336	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – one, abstention – no one voted 166 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, which a group of 12 MPs from the Boris Tadic parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, submitted to the National Assembly on 25 February 2015. Does the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Prof. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24337	The ruling coalition MPs may not be interested in enough situations of citizens, and they are somewhere around 100,000 who are threatened by the fact that banks have high profits and that these profits will not give up without the state wanting to take control of the financial oligarchy that leaves the apartment daily, the roof over the head, an increasing number of citizens. The well-known actor Nebojsa Dugalic and his five children and wife must leave Serbia seems to be interested in no one in this National Assembly, but Nebojsa Dugalic is a celebrity and his fate was heard. Who heard about the fates of the people who took loans from Novi Sad, and in the meantime lost their jobs or their spouses were out of a job? Who has heard of numerous Belgrade citizens who have lost their salaries, their salaries have been reduced, and their loans have been increased. That is why we have proposed, our parliamentary group, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. This law does not apply only to users of loans in Swiss francs, as they are not in a much better position or users of credit in euro or indexed in other foreign currencies. Why? Because banks have and have such a position as to prescribe through general terms such obligations for credit users to change even their interest rates, not to mention all the accompanying costs that follow credit. All financial services users know how banks behave. In this draft law, we have proposed that the general conditions of business cannot be contrary, nor to produce greater obligations than the basic contract, that all obligations for the parties must be defined in the basic contract, and that in general conditions these provisions can only be developed. We also predicted that credit repayment wars should not exceed 50% of the bank's clients' payments that took the loan, not only at the time of the conclusion of the loan contract, but also at the time of the loan's payment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24338	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 171 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović on the basis of Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on special terms and conditions and the method of reconciliation of the obligations of residents of residential loans with the currency clause in the Swiss francs, which a group of 12 MPs submitted by the parliamentary group Boris Tadic SDS, jointly for Serbia, the Green Serbia National Assembly on 25 February 2015. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24339	The third law we have proposed refers directly to the protection of credit users who indexed their loans in Swiss francs. These days, the banks got memos that don't actually get anything. The National Bank of Serbia said it would solve this problem, it did not solve it. Unfortunately, thousands of loan users protested last Saturday, but unfortunately MPs of the ruling parties are not interested in their fate, apparently because they do not want the Assembly to take over the role of protectors of these troubled citizens who want nothing but to return their loans fairly, but do not want to repay two or three times as much credit as those who took the moment to conclude the contract. As a result, we suggested that these loans be re-indicated on the day of the conclusion of the contract and that the account be made afterwards and that it should be seen whether they should pay or have already paid off their loan. Another possibility is that loans for those citizens who are at the end of the credit payment are re-indicated on the day before the labour law enters into force and all laws that reduce salaries and pensions for employees in Serbia, as they have been brought into a difficult position in the meantime. The third option that, believe it or not, the users themselves are looking for is to return these apartments to the bank. So, to hand over their apartments just to get the bank to write off their remaining liabilities. Imagine the position these people are in, that the apartment they've been paying off for ten years, they're willing to give the bank, just so they don't pay those huge interest and that extra profit to the banks anymore. The fourth option is that these credit users retain the right of a privileged landlord in these banks and wait for a better time, probably when this government will no longer be a government, when some new government will come, when wages will grow rather than fall, to maybe pay off those loans. That's why we suggest this time that both SNS, SPS, etc....
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24340	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24341	... support the users of credits that are in a non-extinguishing position and not to be on the side of financial oligarchy... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24342	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 167 out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana HasanovicKorac, based on Articles 92, 2 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014. Does MP Biljana Hasanovickorac want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Biljana Hasanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24343	I thank the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in agreement with colleagues from my parliamentary group Boris Tadic, the Social Democratic Party – Together for Serbia and Green Serbia, I have again proposed to put on the agenda a bill to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, which would extend the jurisdiction of local self-government by providing them with the ability to edit, provide scholarships of students and students. Last time I explained the situation in this matter and the situation in education that is catastrophic, because the strikes take a very long time, and the government and the competent ministry are not taking adequate measures. At the time, I did not come to understand that this bill was put on the agenda. With all due respect to most members of the ruling coalition, and them as individuals, and their education, I must conclude that among them, and especially in important places, there are those who are very quick and in a very questionable way and have reached a diploma and a doctorate. Probably why they have no sense of scholarship to good students and students who are in a difficult material condition. Local self-government is in direct contact with citizens and their problems, and therefore they are more sensitive to this issue and they are trying and trying to solve this problem. Most local self-government single out at least part of the funds, although it is a crisis, to help good students and students who are in a difficult material condition. Until two, three years ago, it was given as a scholarship. However, auditors have characterised this way of helping students and students as a violation, as there is no legal basis for local self-government to do so. Now local self - administrations have come forward, so they have made decisions to help students and students and have made some criteria on the basis of which they share the money. By adopting the proposed law, local self-government would get the legal basis that in a legal way, using established criteria, help good students and students who are poor material conditions. We now propose to pass this law so that local self-governments have enough time to prepare sublegal acts and criteria on which grants will be granted and to allocate funds in the budget for the People's Year. This would have a multiple positive effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24344	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24345	Can I just finish the sentence?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24346	Yeah, yeah, just finish it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24347	Thank you. It would help to materially help good students and students achieve better results. The company would be provided by experts who would have a moral obligation both to the country of Serbia and to the place they come from, to stay here, not to leave as soon as they finish schooling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24348	I thank Mrs. Hasanovic Korac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 164 of the 181 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) and in accordance with Article 157(7). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that the examination of the details of the proposal for a law establishing public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project be carried out immediately following the completion of the principled examination of the bill. Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – three abstentions – no, 50 of the 180 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure, on proposals for complementarity from the proposed agenda and on a proposal for the examination to be carried out immediately after the initial search, pursuant to Article 93(3). I put the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to vote on the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted 49 out of the 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. 2.Proposal of a law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of projects for the construction of “Belgrade on Water”; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges first elected in a judicial capacity; 4. Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 13(3) of point 5) of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia’), No. 72/09/52/11 and 55/13). We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on today's session to be attended by Dr. Kori Udovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Milos Popovic, Head of the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Vidosava Djagic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Natalija Pavlovic, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Tatjana Zeljković Babić, Head of the Standards Sector at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Jelena Parezović, Public Relations Advisor for Deputy Prime Minister, Irena Otaševic, Assistant at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. We are moving to the First Point of the Agenda - Proposal for a law on inspection supervision. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does the proposing representative, Dr Kori Udovicki, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24349	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the debate in principle allow me to make some preliminary remarks on the proposal for a law on inspection supervision. First of all, I would like to stress that the law that is before you will essentially change the way all inspection services in Serbia are working. Since inspections rely on the work of all levels of government in as many as 12 cabinets of management organisations, this law will, in fact, greatly change the work of the entire state administration. The changes made by this law concern all the most important aspects of the work of the administration that we want and that we need to change. The relationship between inspections, i.e. Administrations and businesses and citizens, changing the way the inspection cooperates with each other, improving the planning of their work and coordination, and improving the quality of knowledge and information on which their work is based. The implementation of this law will require a serious improvement of the organisation of work and training and quality of inspection officers and will require two full years. But the results will be worth the effort and the cost. It will radically reduce corruption space, radically reduce space for both the gray economy and significantly reduce the burden on the economy by the cost of supervision. Before I present this paper, let me say something about the adoption of this law. We are passing this law because it was wanted by the businessmen and citizens of Serbia. In addition to costing this law and system to the economy, as the current system costs the economy, as I mentioned earlier, businessmen and citizens of Serbia recognized that the fundamental problem we are facing today, which this law will be accounted for, is that today the unreformed system is such that it leads to the unpredictability of the business environment, and the unpredictability of the business environment is one of the biggest brakes for investment, development and growth of jobs, or employment in Serbia. The not reformed system was last edited in 1992, when the provisions that regulate inspection supervision today were established and the rest are still valid so far in the Law on State Administration. Since then, an unregulated regulatory mass has grown from about a thousand special laws and sublegal acts. No wonder the businessmen can't figure it out, or predict what they're going to do and when and what inspector to say and do when they're being watched. Businesses and citizens sought the adoption of a comprehensive system law, which in a unique way would regulate the methodology of conduct in inspection, authority and obligation of inspection control participants to regulate the coordination of the work of inspections, as well as better use of the resources of inspections, and thus their resources of businessmen. The changes in the inspection surveillance system you are considering today are foreseen in the public administration reform strategy in the Republic of Serbia, adopted in February 2014, as well as in the institutes and solutions set out in the proposal for this law largely stem from the way they were prepared, and have been prepared since June 2011, when it was launched with a detailed analysis of the situation in the area of inspection supervision, as well as systematic dialogue with representatives of stakeholders, inspections and business entities with great support of USAID for better business. The dialogue was led by representatives of stakeholders, both from the public and private sectors, and was led through continuous consultations with domestic and international experts. Good international and comparative legal practices have been adopted, as well as the standards some inspections have already introduced or started to introduce during this period. Finally, this regulatory process was positively assessed by the NGO "Transparency of Serbia", which followed its compliance with the recommendations of the study, which I am sure you know about improving the legislative process in the Republic of Serbia, which was prepared by the German International Co-operation Organisation GIZ. I'm moving on to what this law is about. The most important thing that this law adopts is to change the relationship between the inspection and the supervised entity, which means to change the relationship between the state and the economy and the citizens. On the new principles of governance and economy, they become partners in building a healthier, more advanced society. It leaves the concept of administration as an exclusive regulator and operators and citizens. It leaves the legacy to which the top task of the administration is to protect society from businessmen, especially if these businessmen are private. The emphasis is now placed on preventive measures, instead of the inspection overfishing the mistake and punishing it, it is actually becoming a policy implementation instrument, it is becoming an instrument for greater compliance of business with the law. Of course, one who disobeys the law will be held accountable, but now that responsibility will have to be proportionate and precise, and then when it is large and when it is small. Such access to inspection costs less, and gives better results when it comes to harmonising the work of the economy with the law. More importantly, such an approach changes the entire economic environment and promotes entrepreneurship, investment and job creation. The fact is that, as a rule, business entities meet first with the state system that is depicted in the inspector. The purpose of this law is to encourage the economy and enable it to operate permanently and successfully. This change in the relationship between the subject and the inspectors brings this law through a series of institutes. First of all, regular inspection surveillance will be planned from now on with all inspections, and not so far with only half of them, and these surveillance plans as reports on the implementation of the plans will be published, and regular inspections will be announced to surveillance entities. The planning of inspection surveillance will be based on a risk assessment, and the risk assessment will be based on facts. This will lead to savings both to the state and to the economy, as it will reduce the unnecessary control of those who have already brought their business into line with the regulations, which have already been seen to settle all their obligations towards the state regularly, and who have sometimes been subject to inspections just because they have been known to be easier to meet inspection standards. In this way, it significantly reduces the likelihood of abuse and willlessness, and reduces the scope for corruption, introduces control lists in the process of supervision that are publicly available and which ensure greater predictability of the business environment. Both the supervisory entity and the inspector will have the same rules under which they operate, they will know which areas are subject to supervision and what exactly is expected to be the extent of control. Standardisation of the procedure, type and form of inspection supervision, as well as standardisation of the obligations and responsibilities of inspectors and supervised entities, is introduced, and the standardisation of inspection measures is introduced, the rule that inspection measures should be, I mentioned earlier, proportionate to the estimated risk of illegality and the proportionate economic strength of the entity. We can't destroy a small businessman with a measure or punishment that's measured for a much larger company. Uniting inspection practices is one of the most important elements of the law. Another major change adopted by this law is that it requires full coordination between inspection services in the planning, implementation and monitoring of inspection work. The establishment of a co-ordination committee to be educated by the Government, whose work will be to coordinate the control plans of different inspections, guide the conduct of inspections and improve the effectiveness, efficiency, quality of inspection control, including the uniforming of inspection practice and raising the level of inspector's expertise. In this way, the gaps of uncertainty and overlaps in the work of inspections that have unnecessarily burdened the economics so far will be removed. On the one hand, it will end up for the citizens a crazy practice of transferring responsibility from one authority to another, playing ping-pong with jurisdiction, as we call it. On the other hand, overlapping and overlapping inspections in the conduct of inspection controls will be removed, often requiring the same supervised entity to deliver or to provide the same documents, the same data, documents and objects with multiple different inspections. There will be a reduction in the space for unequal or contradictory interpretation of the rules, again between different inspections. However, the most important crack that closes this law is that it foresees clear powers of inspection for the supervision of unregistered, unreported entities, so-called those in the gray economy. This will fill the legal gaps that led to the inspection being supervised by the legally notified entity and passing next to the illegal activity that carries out the same activity in a much more risky manner. The third major change adopted by this law is that the requirement for planning, based on risk analysis and coordination between bodies, will also require significant improvements in the analytical basis in the work of inspection services. The Commission's work will be supported by the creation of a single information system, the so-called E-Inspector, which will ensure full data exchange and electronic documents in the planning and implementation of inspection surveillance. The Ministry of State Administration and local self-government will provide professional and analytical support for this integrated planning, and the planning obligation will now apply to those 54% inspections that do not do so today, and the quality of planning for all will be improved. Dear Members, the adoption of this law is only the first step in reforming the inspection system, which should be followed by other legislative, regulatory and institutional changes, as well as new quality management and quality control practices in inspection bodies. We've got two years of big business ahead of us. The law shall enter into force eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger. The Co-ordination Commission, at the level of the Government, must be established three months later, and on the basis of the Economic Cocus initiative, if the amendment is adopted, it will have to take effect in three months and the jurisdiction of inspections to control unregistered operators in its own activity, in five months it will have to take effect the jurisdiction of inspections for unregistered entities in other activities, and in six months it will have to form and publish control lists for all inspections. The application of the law in general begins 12 months after the day of publication, and two years after the day of publication, all the special laws of inspection services that exist today will have to be brought into line with it. At the end of this opening presentation, allow me to thank you first of all for the attention we have seen and in the constructive proposals for the amendments that are coming to us, and to express the expectation that after the debate in the principles and particulars of the proposed law will be passed, thus ensuring that the public administration achieves better results in protecting the public interest and improving the competitiveness of Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24350	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24351	The Honorable Vice President, the Presidency, the Honorable Madam Ministers, Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SVM Group supports the adoption of a new system law on inspection supervision which, as we heard in the opening presentation of the honourable minister, actually regulates the entire inspection control methodology, as well as the obligations and powers of all participants in inspection supervision, but since it is comprehensive and this is its essence, it also regulates all other issues concerning this area. Unfortunately, at present, this matter is still in an extremely large number of laws and sublegal acts and they are not in line with each other, and therefore the aim of adopting a new law is to avoid these collegiations, i.e. inconsistencies of legal norms, as well as very different practices, the situation to be handled differently in very similar or similar situations on the ground. One of the basic newspapers is what I would like to stress most, and that is exactly the coordination of the work of different inspections and better use of the resources of the same. As you have heard, we are likely to repeat today, the basic reason for this law, which is actually about planning and carrying out inspection, is the need for a basic system law to really regulate the situation in this extremely complex area. The lack of coordination in the prudent organisation of inspection surveillance unfortunately still reduces the efficiency of the same and leads to an extremely high burden on the economy, supervised entities with regard to the frequency of controls, meaning that some very often come from various inspectors, but also, as we have heard, the identity of the subject of inspection supervision from different inspections. It is generally known that the biggest burden of administrative and financial burdens, pressures are carried precisely by micro and small business entities that have only a few employees. Inspectorate supervision is either an obligation or a task of the state administration. One of the objectives of adopting this inspection control law is to significantly change the economic environment, which is essential for us in the functioning of the public administration, to make it more efficient, and to bring the entire area of inspection surveillance into line in an effective and effective way, as regards a large number of ministries. One of the biggest problems in our economy is the carrying out of activity by unregistered or unregistered entities, so-called. The gray economy. This actually leads to unfair competition among economic operators. One of the basic tasks of this law is that it is precisely preventing the emergence and expansion of the grey economy, to remove the adverse consequences of the gray economy, and to a significant extent to the extent that the area of corruption is being teary. When we talk about these reported economic operators, this law should guarantee greater transparency of supervised entities in their business, conduct, operation and prevent the performance and exercise of activities by unregistered, unregistered entities. By combating the activity of unregistered entities, unregistered ones would be promoted by a free competition and would be protected by loyal competition from the so-called so-called competition. The gray economy, which unfortunately wasn't the case in the past. It is therefore extremely important and necessary that inspectors identify these undeclared entities which carry out fully illegal business and take the necessary measures and actions to comply first with the law and regulations, which, of course, includes sanctioning, or penalties. Right now, we have two illogicalities. On the one hand, there is an extremely high administrative burden on entities that legitimately operate, and on the other hand, there is a lack of control of those entities that are not registered in the relevant register and who, without a valid legal basis, hire persons to work with them. So there is insufficient control, or control of those who knowingly break the law and regulations, and some do so long and continuously. It is therefore extremely important that those who are legally operating when certain amendments to the legislation know exactly what their obligations are and what they need to do to comply with their business and to comply with the rules. The aim is to achieve the best possible notification that the inspector himself of the supervised entity and the subject of supervision, and on the other hand to reduce the administrative burden, the burden of the supervised entity itself, means economic operators. The authorities in the future will no longer be able to transfer responsibility to each other, or jurisdiction, because unfortunately all citizens, all of us who have had various problems in practice, see that very often, that various inspectorates say they are not responsible for a particular issue. This will not happen in the future because they will be networked, or coordinated, and will not be able to transfer responsibility especially in that question when we talk about unregistered or unregistered entities. From now on, all inspections will be responsible for inspection of unregistered entities, especially if they are in their area. However, if not within their jurisdiction, their areas will then have an obligation to report such suspicions, i.e. irregularities, to report those inspections in whose field of work this entity is. There will therefore be an explicit obligation for everyone, not just for some inspections to carry out inspection checks on unregistered entities. It is very important to put an end to this constant practice of transferring responsibility to one another, according to which everyone says that it is not responsible for certain issues and that normally, logically, citizens are extremely irritated. There won't be any more time for the inspector to go to someone or not to go because that's what they agreed with the economic operator. There will be a clear reason in the plan why, how often, with which regularity, it enters a regular inspection plan and it will be carried out with what regularity, why? No longer is the inspector to come to someone and stay there for longer than is planned to be there until he finds some irregularity to do such or such an interpretation in order at all costs to get a certain penalty from that economic operator or God forbid he just put something in his pocket. The inspection, at least regular inspection supervision, will be announced in the future will not be carried out on a raid, i.e. supervised entities will be informed in advance that they are expected to be monitored on a regular basis. Of course, the law provides in exceptional cases that inspection supervision does not have to be announced, so it can begin without notifying the supervised entity in those situations where there are reasons for urgent treatment or legitimate concern that this notification would in advance reduce the achievement of the inspection objective and where this requires the protection of public interest, i.e. removing various dangers. As for the coordination of inspection surveillance, we heard in the opening statement by the Minister that the law stipulates that the government forms within three months so-called. the coordination committee responsible for the coordination of work, the coordination body for more comprehensive and effective supervision, i.e. avoiding overlapping and unnecessary repetition of controls, to coordinate, to carry out inspection controls. The task of this co-ordination committee should actually be to ensure more effective and comprehensive supervision. Co-operation of competent inspections with other state administration authorities is also extremely important and will include both mutual information, data exchange, assistance and joint measures and actions of importance for inspection surveillance. The most significant newspapers of this law are actually preventive measures, control measures. The objective is to ensure the legality and transparency of business and the conduct of supervised entities by preventing and controlling measures, as well as to prevent and eliminate adverse consequences. The other objectives that are encouraged by this law are the elimination of inequality, as I was saying, self-will, corruption, unwarranted frequency of inspection surveillance in one and the absence of inspection supervision among those other operators that have not been reported, for example, as well as the reduction of the administrative burden of the economy. It is significant that this law recognises both regular and extraordinary, or control and supplementary inspection supervision. A few details that have not yet been mentioned, which are significant. So the most significant newspaper is this very prevention that inspection supervision is not only about punishment, but also about informing economic operators that they can bring their business into line with the law and regulations. The inspection is required to draw up checklists from its area of inspection and to publish them on its website and that the inspectors will from now on be bound by a actually contained warrant, i.e. the inspection control in question, so they won't be able to stay here for longer and to control everything and everything. This does not apply only to the situation of unregistered economic operators in these cases, inspection surveillance may be carried out without warrants and outside of a narrow case specified by this inspection warrant. What is also significant is that supervised entities have equal rights and obligations in inspection supervision, which includes the right to conduct inspections equally in the same and similar situations towards all supervised entities. To conclude, the most significant elements of the newspaper in this new system of inspection law are the preventive, corrective action of inspection, the suppression of the gray economy, as well as the harmonisation of inspection control practices. Special importance is the coordination of different inspections that carry out other inspections, each with the other, and all for efficiency, efficiency, economics of inspection supervision. We also support an increase in penalties for those who knowingly violate regulations and act unregistered or unregistered. In voting day, LSV MPs will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24352	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. The word has Dr Branko Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24353	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has been preparing as the honourable minister said, the preparation of this law began long ago in 2011 at the request of businessmen who practically did not come across understanding in legal regulations. We now have about 37 inspections at this point that have not been modified and located in 12 ministries. Not only is this horizontal at the state level, but we now practically have no reform on verticals of autonomous provinces and on the level of local self-government. This one system law was supposed to be incorporated into the State Administration Act of 2005, but unfortunately, this segment related to inspection surveillance was then amputated so that by today we use the 1992 Law on State Administration, which is neutral in all segments, but remains this segment related to inspection supervision. What is this system law and what is the relationship between this system law and other legal norms? We have three levels of law at the state administration level. First or general level, it is the Law on administrative procedure, the Law on State Administration and the Law on civil servants. Second level of law or so on. The middle level of the law is this inspection law. The third level is so-called. specific or sectoral laws defining certain substances as part of individual inspections. So, practically, we're talking about a law that's a middle level, but it's also a roof law for these special or sectoral laws. In her speech, the Honorable Minister explained the degree of dissatisfaction of economic operators, so that he practically culminated in the moment when the economy or certain economic operators, economic organisations, cried out for a change in these legislations. During public hearings and public analysis of all the regulations related to this area, we had unselfish assistance from USAID, a project for better operating conditions in all forms and stages. Also, she actively participated the NAED organisation, which is the National Alliance for Local Economic Control. In addition to these business associations, the entire system of law-making has been followed by representatives of the Transparency of Serbia, the NGO. Based on the 2012 Survey of a thousand businessmen, the current regulations regarding inspection supervision were in the fifth negative place as regards positive and healthy economic activities. A survey conducted in 2014, from May to July, showed that each other's economic operator has some objection to the rules so far relating to inspection supervision. It should also be noted here that five of the most frequent inspections cost our economy two and a half million euros in 2014. So, practically, so far, the rules that should remain a relic of the past have been used for punishment, so practically the economy has paid two and a half million euros just on behalf of the various penalties in terms of the most frequent five inspections. What also worries, the individual average penalty grew year after year. The average penalty per economic operator for 2014 was 2,012 euros and for the previous, 2013, it was 838 euros. So it's not practically the point that we punish our economic operators, the point is that we actively help them develop them. The large objection of operators was to non-transparentity, to one assessment of inspection based on certain quantifiers. Practically, the work of inspectors or inspectors within individual inspections was evaluated on the basis of the number of exits on the ground and on the basis of the number of penalties charged. All of this together has practically affected the creation of an atmosphere to turn everything around in a different way in this bill. What is fundamental in the proposal for this law is the unification, standardisation and modernisation of inspection supervision, where, under number one, the focus should be on a registered economic operator who needs to get conditions for a positive economic atmosphere. The next further crucial step in the proposal for this law is preventive action. This preventive action should be the start of a regular inspection procedure. This preventive start of a regular inspection procedure should be carried out through a law enforcement act, through official visits to certain economic operators and during these visits to point to certain risk factors to individual economic operators, that they themselves, in the further process of their work, change it and agree with the current legal rules. The third item that is extremely significant in the proposal for this law is that all these economic operators are not placed in one plane. We're practically now making inspection surveillance plans based on a risk assessment, so we have several entities regarding the risk. We have business entities that have a minor business risk, which have a low, medium, high and critical business risk. So, for all inspection surveillance plans, the deciding parameter in that planning will be the level of the business risk of an individual economic operator. The coordination body should be the body of the Government, which will be formed three months after the entry into force of this law and this coordination body should be the coordinator between individual inspection bodies, the body that will bring together individual inspections plans, which will allow and approve the control lists, which will give us predictability in the work of individual inspection bodies. When there was a debate to be called that body that should coordinate the work of all these inspection bodies, was it one dilemma whether it would be one more liberating, conditionally said, coordinating body, or be some more cohesion body in the form of a single inspectorate? We now have four countries in the world that do not have a virtually co-ordination body, but have one body that is extremely firm in this cohesion sense, where we have practically one general inspector who should, under quotes, know the problems of all other inspections. In practice, this is very difficult, so Croatia has recently given up on the concept of a single inspectorate. This coordination body, which should be formed three months after the entry into force of this law, should provide binding guidance and guidance to all inspection bodies. A month after the formation of the coordination body, it is also necessary to establish a protocol on the work of that body. At the same time, the proposal for this law gives us different forms of inspection supervision. We have regular, extraordinary, control and supplemental. When we talk about regular inspection, the rules are known, we have those nine stages. The first stage, done by the inspection body of a specific inspection, is an analysis of the business situation of a particular economic operator. The second stage is a risk assessment. The third stage is the creation of a plan that is related to this particular business entity and which is coordinated with other plans. Afterwards, a visit order shall be issued to a particular economic operator. The following stage, which is and what is significant, the economic operator shall be informed that then and then, at that time, a certain authority of a specific inspection comes. Following completion of the inspection surveillance process, a solution shall also be issued to that solution by a particular economic operator to be referred to an appeal which shall be settled by administrative dispute. The main characteristic of this law lies in one ruthless struggle against the gray economy. We now have a situation where individual inspection bodies cannot go peacefully past an unregistered entity and are tasked with such an irregular, unregistered entity, which is not registered in a commercial or another register or which does not have a valid engagement with employees, such inspection shall have a task when such an entity encounters to apply a strict registration procedure to the register and until it is entered into the register to cease its activity. This is something that is novelty, it is not only that the inspection should have an impact on unregistered entities in its definition material, but practically has an obligation to, if it sees an unregistered or registered unregistered entity that is from the domain of another inspection, immediately inform that other inspection. We place this law in one of the essential system laws that needs to improve the economic atmosphere in our country. The alignment of sectoral or specific laws with this roof law will have gradual stages which will last two years from the date of entry into force of this law. The harmonisation of sectoral laws with this roofed, system law will be based on a unique information system, so-called "the system". E or an electronic instructor. The budget funds are set for this implementation of the information system, so that we also have certain resources for 2015, 2016 and 2017. Only the introduction of a central information system has two phases. The first phase is the process phase to be completed by the end of 2015 when each inspection will carry out an analysis of its business processes. The next phase is so-called. The software phase, where public procurement for the implementation of certain software will be implemented, so we expect the implementation of this software system in four of the most frequent inspections during 2016. By the end of 2016, this information system should have a common base, and all inspections will be networked by the end of 2017. We absolutely support the amendment of the article of the 70th proposal of this law, which was proposed by the Economic Cocussus of our Assembly that this unfettered struggle against the gray economy begin before life begins, which is 12 months from the entry into force of this law, to begin this after the establishment of the co-ordination body. So, three months after the entry into force of this law, five months after the entry into force of this inspection law, which is to go after unregistered entities from the domain of some other inspections. During a public debate concerning the adoption of the proposal for this inspection control law, the Ministry of Agriculture made one remark and requested an exemption. It required that they have one exception in the sense that there is economic legislation where this should take precedence over our legislation. They proposed the establishment of a single food and veterinary administration that would combine four inspections – veterinary for food of animal origin, agricultural for food of plant origin, phytosanitary inspection and sanitary inspection. There will certainly be co-operation between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. They stated in their memo the case of Slovenia, and in Slovenia we have that food and veterinary administration is part of the system roof law, as is the proposal under this law. In further communication between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, a compromise can certainly be found and we absolutely support the Ministry of Agriculture as part of this system roof law. Finally, I can show satisfaction with the bill's proposal and the SDPS parliamentary groups will vote in favour of the bill in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24354	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24355	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed minister, the honourable MPs, is missing the MPs in the SNS benches, and I was surprised about that. This law is a very important law and we, Your Honor, have approached it very seriously. I would say that this is one of the most important laws that has come into the assembly procedure during the past three years, during this coalition. I don't know which law would have more importance than the law that should allow more law to be applied, and with us, we said, we all agree, that it's not a problem that we don't have laws or that we don't have adequate laws, that maybe some laws aren't up to the end of quality, but the basic problem is that these laws are not respected, they don't realize. This Inspectorate Control Act should ensure that the laws are enforced, because the inspections are the ones that control the application of the law. Except for the inspection, we have more police, communal police, and that's it. It's basically a state. The inspections include a state that should apply the force given to inspections through sanctions resulting from an inspection decision and, in that sense, I believe that this law is very, very important. We are not satisfied with the Social Democratic Party, Together with the quality of this law for Serbia and the Green MP Group party Boris Tadic. We'll do anything to fix this law to the 70 members that have this law, we've submitted 35 amendments. We'll also tell you what we analyzed when we considered the quality of this law. The law itself, following legal acts in this area, but we benefited greatly from USAID and NAED inspection analysis in the Republic of Serbia that was done last year. It is of great benefit, because we were able to see concrete information about inspections, about the number of people, about the problems they are facing, etc. This analysis was necessary to us, not that the state was working but the NGO sector, it is crucial for us to understand this problem. What you can clearly see from this analysis is that the situation in this area is not satisfactory. For the sake of the citizens, but also for MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I will read which inspections we have in the state. Believe it or not, I didn't hear it. I haven't heard, I haven't heard, and especially I don't know where their phone numbers are and what their responsibilities are, and what haven't I heard? I believe that most citizens in Serbia do not know, neither where they are, nor what their powers are. We have 37 inspections or inspectorates. In the Ministry of Finance, we have the IRS and the budgetary inspection. In the Ministry of Agriculture we have agricultural inspection, phytosanitary inspection, border phytosanitary inspection, veterinary inspection, border veterinary inspection, water inspection, forest and hunting inspection and environmental protection inspection. At the Ministry of Transport Infrastructure Building, which is well managed by Ms. Mihajlović, we have a construction inspection, urban inspection, republican municipal inspection, geodetic inspection, Republic-Geodetic institute as a special organisation, public road inspection, road and public road inspection, rail traffic inspection, internal navigation inspection, air inspection, civil aviation directorate. In the Ministry of Mining and Energy we have an electrical inspection, an inspection actually, under pressure from a mining-geological inspection. In the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications we have market inspection, tourist inspection, electronic telecommunications inspection, post office traffic inspection. In the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, Minister, if so, we have one inspection that is the administrative inspection, the administrative inspectorate, writes the organ in the paper. The interior ministry has a fire inspection, the defence ministry has a defence inspectorate, the body in place, it writes. At the Ministry of Health, we have a health inspection, a sanitary inspection, a drug and medical inspection, an inspection for intoxicating drugs and precursors. Then we have an inspection of the Biomedicine Authority, an organ in the system. In the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development we have an educational inspection, at the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs we have a labour inspectorate, at the Ministry of Youth and Sports we have a sports inspection. So 37 inspections. I read a little faster to save myself time, because I'd probably spend my 20 minutes reading all the inspections there are. Do any of the citizens of Serbia, to whom the largest part, i.e. the full activity of these inspections, or the application of the law, know where these inspections are located, which are telephone numbers, are they located at 37 locations or 370, given that they are dislocated in the cities of Serbia? Each one is located in some special offices, somewhere well-marked, somewhere poorly marked, but there is no unique website on which to know, even those with electronic communication. Of course we know that each of these inspections has its own task. Water inspection if she did her job, they wouldn't have buried canals, there wouldn't be a flood in some places, there wouldn't be a shot in the canals. It's supposed to be an environmental inspection, of course, isn't it, Minister, communal? If the Public Roads inspection didn't have so many holes on the roads, we wouldn't have so many car accidents because of unmarked roads. In order to carry out market inspection, no unmarked products would have been included, products which were specified by the deadline, food products, which are not known to the country of origin, whether they meet the health conditions, etc. Against fire inspection, we only talk about this topic when there's a big tragedy, young people get hurt, people get shot in the fire. Educational inspection, if we had an educational inspection, we wouldn't have thousands and thousands of people who graduated from college overnight, people who were mastered, doctored overnight. How many educational inspectors do we have, Minister? Do you know? The minister said a few, I think a dozen educational inspectors all over the country. What do you say in this analysis that's been done? The law does not respond to problems and challenges that are currently Serbia's problem, which is the lack of adequate inspection supervision. The analysis says: the degree of achievement of the purpose of punishment is also the responsibility of inspectors, both in the prosecution and in courts. At least 50% of the procedures go out of date, there is no criminal or criminal procedure at all because of the outdated cases in the inspector's drawers or in the prosecution drawers or in the court drawers. It shows – the unequal practice of giving inadequate sanctions also violates the purpose of inspection supervision. On the other hand, misdemeanor courts point out that inspectors' records are unquality, too large and unusable for them. The analysis shows that the jurisdiction of the inspection is overlapping. More than 50 analyses have pointed out that there is overlapping in their work, and what is worst is that a significant number of them have said that they know that there is no one's jurisdiction in certain areas. So, not only do they overlap, but there are areas that no one controls, to exclude these illegals that no one has ever controlled, or only one inspection in an inadequate way has controlled them. So, there are areas that no one is in charge of, and where they're intertwined, you think they work both ways, no, they don't work either. Everyone points to the other one. This is a horizontal overlap. There's a overlap at a vertical level, at the level of states, provinces, local self-government, and when it's all taken we unfortunately have laws that don't apply. I've been looking at an analysis of the number of inspectors in the area, so I'm a drastically different from the need for a video from a construction inspection. Of the 13 systematiced inspectors she's supposed to have, the building inspection has only seven. If there were 13 there wouldn't be a need for a minister in a helicopter to monitor whether the workers have a helmet or if they're working on a project. That's what a construction inspection would do. That's why we, the Honorable Minister, have submitted 35 amendments. I don't think these amendments can fix the law so we can vote for him. I think he's basically insufficient, that he should have taken five steps to know who you're talking to, what time he's responding, when he's making a decision, and what happens if the inspector doesn't carry out an inspection, if the prosecution doesn't respond, and if the judge doesn't respond, and if the citizen reports something to know why it isn't done. So, if we had written this bill from our parliamentary group, it would have been much, much more detailed and much more systematic and would have given greater authority to co-ordinate between inspections or create a new system. What we have shown in our amendments is that there must be a provision that would prevent corruption. So, our inspectors, except they can't make it, they're not exactly, how can I say, sanded not to be corrupt. So there's...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24356	Please, Mr. Veselinovic, don't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24357	I'm sorry. Maybe it wasn't an appropriate word. So they're not immune from corruption. That's what those who control and we don't have the mechanisms to remove that corruption in this law, we don't have the mechanisms. It's the inspector's salary, too. Your government has also reduced the inspector's salary. Of course, these people live off their salaries and don't justify being corrupt, which they have a lower salary, but there are no mechanisms to prevent it. So we're asking that provisions that have warned corruption be introduced in this part of it. We asked that the deadlines be cut to the state authorities who are required to respond to the inspection requirements from 15 to seven days. Wait, if the inspection requires information from the competent national authority, whose job it is to deal with this activity, it takes 15 days to respond to the inspector and that response may be incomplete. The inspector can ask for an extra one. It could take a month. We asked for that deadline to be reduced to seven months, and I ask you to consider that, and possibly, at the request of that authority, that deadline may be extended for another seven or eight days, it doesn't matter, if it's just such a problem that it can't be answered by the competent authority. We've been looking for serious changes when it comes to the provisions concerning this coordination body, the co-ordination committee. First of all, I think it's unacceptable that this co-ordination committee doesn't have its own president, nor vice presidents, or so on, it has to be governed by the law. It must be known who the president is, who the deputy is, that this commission has some secretary. How do you think this forest is co-ordinated by a body that has no body within the law intended for either the president, or the deputy, or the secretary? We have also provided greater responsibilities for this commission, above all, for it to collect data from competent inspections, analyse the application of the law in certain areas, and give binding instructions to inspections in order to apply the law, to form and publish on its official website united information on all inspections in the state, province, and at the level of local self-government, with their responsibilities, addresses, telephones and e-mail addresses, as their managers. We believe in the MP club that there must be a unique, united record of all inspections, firstly that citizens know what inspections there are, and secondly that they know who they should turn to. Please tell me, Minister, that I am a citizen and that you are an inspector in one of these inspections and if I were to ask you – who should I address for what products are on the low quality market or are not marked enough, etc. And you're a water inspector, would you know who to direct or you'd be simpler to say – you have all the inspections on that and that site, my dear citizen, and you can contact there, you can get that information. We ask that sanctions for those who make inspection oversight impossible be greater. He says -- now, as I understand it, I can't compare the law, 200 grand for someone who's making inspection surveillance impossible. Imagine someone who has a big business and who has 200 grand relatively little for this business and he tells the inspector – goodbye, see you at another time and you give him a fine of 200 grand and that's the end. We predicted that this punishment would be maximum, that it would be two million, and that it would necessarily be given a measure of banning the exercise of activity until inspection was allowed. How can someone carry out their duties without allowing inspection? I don't know what you're explaining. In that sense, we suggest you look at our amendments. We also ask that this commission submit a report once a year to the government, and that the Government submits to the Assembly on the work of inspection bodies, i.e. on the application of the law. Also, we believe that responsibility for the non-compliance of inspectors, the chief of inspection should be significantly more detailed and sanctioned. So it seems to me that there are no provisions in this law that would be punished by inspectors and inspectors unless they act in a particular case. I did not find such a provision, nor do they have adequate deadlines within which deadline they must act.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24358	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24359	I'm done. Therefore, the notification of the applicant may also be oral, but the citizen must be given an answer to whether in a particular case it has been acted and has not been acted on and therefore we ask you to consider our amendment in order to correct this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24360	Thank you, Professor. I'm glad to see you. The word is, Mrs. Udovicki, an advantage has a replica, Mr. Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24361	Mr. Becic, I believe Mr. Veseinovic's lapus or accidental mistake was when he said 37 inspections. There are 36 inspections in 12 ministries, but it's really less important than most of his exposure. All these inspections were formed at a time when Mr. Vesenovic and his party were in power. All these inspections worked and functioned in one non-transparent way without these phone numbers, without these addresses where and how they were, just at the time that Mr. Vesenović was a National MP and his party all and shined in this country. Just at a time when Mr. Veselinovic and his party cheered and dressed in the Republic of Serbia did these inspections only under the State Administration Act. They didn't even bother to do the Inspectorate Control Act, and I want to talk about the proposed law. I want to talk about the amendments. There's 100 of them and something. I personally suggested three. As part of my focus, I was a signer of some other amendments. I know the Ministry is willing to discuss it. We can't put everything on as if life started three years ago, as if life had started with the SNS and since 2012, and you've spent all your time in lulls and now you're bothered that the inspections are what they are, and you haven't even shown a grain of effort to do something like that when you've exercised power, or you're better off dealing with Agrobank, Development Bank, the Capital Investment Fund in Vojvodina, all those things you've devastated and destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24362	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24363	What do you need the inspections for, what do you need the inspections for? Of course, they should be somewhere in the seal and somewhere without legal regulations on how it's going to work. That's why, Mrs. Widowsky, go ahead, this is a good law and the SNS will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24364	Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24365	I just want to say, first of all, when it comes to the concrete objections that are being exposed, there is an answer for all of them. For example, mentioning some criminal provision for inspections or for supervised entities or in the appropriate amount is not envisaged, on the contrary, this law has a good number of members who carefully discuss responsibility and coordinate it, as we said at the outset, proportionate to the subject, which, with a breach, with no treatment, with the economic power of the entity, with responsibility and with the Law on Infringements. So, that remark does not stand, there is no objection to the co-ordination committee, of course that these things are governed by a sublegal act and will be detailed, but, most importantly, I am sorry to hear that you will not support the law, I was worried when I heard it, but I did not hear any concrete reason that I would talk about that really this law cannot and is not the answer that we need right now to the situation that we have in our inspections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24366	Thank you, Mrs. Widowsky. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, a replica of Mr. Babic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24367	Thank you, Chairman. If this analysis done by NAED, USAID on inspections in Serbia is incorrect, where 37 inspections say, is even sick and all 37 inspections are listed, then I was wrong, but I read the name of each of these 37 inspections. It is indeed the only source for me, possibly some inspection in the meantime, but this is a recent report. On the other hand, I didn't in any single word accuse this current government of the state of inspection, and I could. I could have said that in three years, nothing was done on that plan, but I'm not because I think this is a social problem, a disregard for the laws passed, which doesn't date back to today, yesterday, the day before, dates back to the existence of the state as an independent state, so the laws are not respected. I didn't in one single word accuse this government, and if I could say so, why hasn't something been done in the last three years? When it comes to the height of the sentence, Minister, I made it clear. So either they're not meant to be punished or they're mild. When I talked about the punishment for the economic operator, the legal person, the supervised entity that rejects control, returns, to be more picturesque, the inspector from the door and I tell him – you can't control, the penalty is from 100,000 to 800,000. We suggested that it be two million. What I've pointed out is that there is no security measure here to prohibit that person from performing his duties until it is ensured that he is in control. I haven't found those security measures anywhere. Tell me, Minister, would that be normal, if someone refused to have the inspection in place, to give him a measure?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24368	Time, Mr. Veselinovic. You spoke 20 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24369	I would no longer respond to these criticisms, and I don't have time, which came from the SNS, and I think the goal is to be a good law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24370	I thank Mr. Veselinovic. The word has an authorised representative, MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, the SPO and DHSS have long waited for one of these laws. Earlier, when you came to the NSRS, you could hear our assessment that every civil servant, in a particular case, was an inspector, the face and the appearance of a particular state. As civil servants behave, civil servants who, above all, receive from the budget their salary and support their families, are the best picture of the state of society and the mirror of the state. You have accepted a very significant task, and when we speak, as sworn anti-communists, with a thousand and one argument in every area that makes us anti-communist, here you face a severe mental heritage. This is an attempt to change the entire philosophy of inspection control, inspection actions in all areas of inspection control. The law is good, and what will be in practice, we will see, because the problems faced by all those who either carry out inspection or are subject to inspection supervision are enormous. I remember many things, I saw many things, I read many analyses, I am absolutely aware of the situation in Serbia. 30 and a few years ago, the usual behavior of an inspector was – first the husband enters the restaurant and screams "inspection", after which the husband enters, goes to booths, lunches or dinners, gets bribes and comes home. But that's why the next-door restaurant will shut down for some triviality, legally punishable. In such a one-party system, you couldn't complain to anyone because it was all networked. We've entered the multi-party system from the one-party, but philosophy has changed significantly. Because much depends on politics, and inspectors, as well as most civil servants, behave in line with politics. In what way? In my company, I worked in an insurance company, one local power plant sent an inspection that was in the insurance company for six months, no end. Do you know what six months of bullying means? Of course, we knew from our sources that the ultimate goal was to withdraw the work permit. What's the damage to business, what's a violation of business reputation, what's the relationship of clients when six months of coming into a company and six months of seeing a variety of inspections? In addition, we have passed the Alert Protection Act, I know that our citizens regularly inform all state institutions, which by official correspondence, which by anonymous correspondence, and I know that such a situation is in your ministry and that it is approximately known who works. So far, this philosophy needs to be changed, the success of the inspector's work has been valued through the number of penalties brought and through the filling of the Republic of Serbia's budget on the basis of the prescribed penalties. If such a philosophy hadn't changed much, he showed me the case from a few months ago, when I was going through a smaller town and he wanted me to buy something at the store. Several stores were closed to each other and several catering facilities, and the most common reason was because they did not issue a fiscal account. Do you know what it means in today's economic crisis and business to close someone's shop for not giving a fiscal bill, which is a dragon's punishment? What is the severity of the offense to be in order to prohibit someone from performing their duties and not have all the employees in that small company receive their salary for several months? That philosophy is trying to change this law, and normatively, it's totally acceptable for us. However, I tell you, we will see, if annual reports on the conduct of all inspection services are delivered, not only from the Republic, but from the regional and local level, what resistances will be in the application of this law. I know it's impossible for the ministry that has a wide range of its fact to absolutely follow, with all the work it's doing, and the work of the inspectors from your jurisdiction, but those rough, easy, simple assessments can be seen very easily. Inspections in developed countries, where the state with its officials, normative and overall performance promotes the development of the economy, have, above all, a cooperative and educational character. Inspectors are kind of like good company associates. They are the ones who will show small or medium-sized enterprises with several employees who can't follow the rules they have made in time to indicate what they should do in their business to adapt, will show flexibility if it isn't done within a certain time limit, and if they have to punish them will be appropriate to the economic power of entrepreneurs, it won't be draconian. The ultimate goal is for all economic operators to make progress, to make profits and to make tax, contribution and provision of services to the full budget of the state, not just by punishing it. I think they've been very lonely examples of the inspector's behavior so far. You and, in the light of the law, say what I otherwise intended to say, which is that inspectors are most often arrogant, that they are difficult to co-operate, that they are corrupt, that they are directly or indirectly seeking bribery, that they act like a state of state, like little gods. You can change that in a few ways. In addition to the education required by all inspectors, it is also necessary to punish the inspectors, and it is certainly necessary to file criminal charges and resign. I think that kind of purification would be the fruit of all these measures. That would be the first step anyone who controls the work of an inspector should take. It has rarely happened so far that one of the inspectors has been responsible for illegal activity, for seeking bribes, taking bribes, etc., and believe me that tariffs exist and that they are more or less public. Serbia is a small country, Serbia knows everything. Therefore, I think that this kind of softness and flexibility in the conduct of inspections, this lifestyle, this ultimate goal of not filling the budget with punishment, but by speeding up economic growth and development, that all analyses of relevant institutions suggest that most of our employers want to work in accordance with the law, but that simply the overall environment is often directed against employers and many who are in the gray zone are not in the gray zone of their own free will. Not all of them want to work in black, but are simply forced, not just because of the inspector, but because of the overall environment and the overall way of doing business. It seems to me that one of the important links in this positive approach to all economic operators is just inspection services. What do they show next? That the state at an annual level in the gray economy, which is also surprising to me, is losing around three billion euros. That's the amount that really was quite surprising to me. Now, not only is it a matter of inspection supervision, but also of the government's overall relationship, primarily towards small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses, how will a series of their own measures speed up leaving the gray zone, because it is in the interest of everyone? It is also in the interests of companies, in the interests of employees and in the interests of the state. I know it's a difficult process, a difficult task, but we simply live in the conditions in which we live and the government measures and measures of the state must go in line with life, and therefore everything about inspection supervision. What is good in these proposed solutions is that the accent will be placed on preventive and corrective measures, that it is likely that inspectors will continue to improve and train themselves professionally, because it is countless examples of inspectors who really do not know the basics of the business or the basics of the work they do, and the ultimate goal and only when you see it in person when it enters to carry out inspection is too late. Usually there's ignorance behind every arrogance. That's how it is with the inspector. All those who are more cooperative, who are more flexible, etc., show through the conversation that they have more knowledge. It's not something new that I've discovered, but it's a typical way of acting as an inspector. Believe me, among the hundred citizens on the street, by arrogance, you will immediately recognize what inspector he is. Then, a good measure is to ensure the legality and security of the work of inspectors, to take a series of corrective measures, not just forced, an attempt to make these formalistic, rigid interpretations of regulations fundamentally replace, that inspectors have a better overview and an analysis of the risk assessment where they should act preventively, where they should act repressively and where they are educationally. Such behavior will primarily help to develop the economy and all entities to operate in accordance with the regulation, as it is their desire. Then, coordination of the work of all inspection services is required. You know, when a citizen goes to some inspection, he gets one brief answer -- it's not our jurisdiction, it's our good-bye. Why doesn't the inspector say who's in charge? Why not write a brief memo from another inspection service? Well, how many injuries to the most severe by employers were obligations from working relationship to employees? I'm not familiar with the fact that labour inspectors once responded adequately or stood up to the protection of their employees. Then how does an employee experience his own state? Well, he looks at her through the face of an inspector and feels powerless. The state behind it does not stand when its rights and interests should be protected, but then with full right it says – but the state is there when it is necessary for citizens to collect all obligations to the state. Why does the state, through and through this form of its action, show that it does not only care about its interests but also about the interests of all citizens? Where citizens feel that kind of state behavior, they say with full pride – I live here and there, it's the real state. Where there is none, the citizens say – there is no state. I think with what you've now predicted and this kind of philosophy will change for the better, with all the accompanying problems. Then, it is a good thing that stronger powers of inspectors are prescribed to combat the exercise of activity in the gray economy and procedures, as well as that there will be better transparency of work and acts of inspection and equalisation of inspection practices, because you yourself, in your explanation, say that inspectors often act on their own interpretation, even beyond the interpretation of the official ministry that they represent on the ground. Imagine the inspector's behavior, which puts himself above the ministry, above the state, above all, which is "dominus at deus". Then, it is good that there will be electronic integration and exchange of information through a unique information system and standardisation of the concept and procedure of inspection supervision. Madam Minister, it is incomprehensible to us, which is why, since this area has been regulated into thousands of laws, regulations, sublaws, and some previous governments have not passed such a system-based inspection law, it is a good thing this government did. This is the first initial good step, I say, first of all, changing one whole philosophy. If what is the aim of the legislator is fully applied in practice, we will indeed have one completely different and better environment in that part, and I will be able, as an anti-communist, to say – here in this area we have freed ourselves from communism, but if it all ends up in the old one, then we have been in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24372	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go, Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24373	Thank you. The inspection law should be a law that we all agree on, regardless of whether we belong to support the ruling coalition, or we are an opposition, because it represents the arrangement of a sector that we do not have a dispute, that is of interest to us, to work smoothly, to prove that we are building a rule of law and to increase the security of citizens. Through that spectrum I will share with you and I hope to earn your attention in these 10-15 minutes, with a comment on how the law is presented. What we've heard about the law is that within a year of the day of entry into force, there's only a brief dyspression, he's in an emergency procedure, he'll come into law in eight days and he'll come into application... It's not an emergency procedure? Before long, the draft law is an emergency procedure along with an explanation. So here we need some inspection, to show when the government decides it's an emergency procedure, and when it decides it's not an emergency procedure, since it's an undecided government about it. In that year, in fact, I would like the minister and we MPs through committees, through various mechanisms in the Assembly itself, to follow the preparation for law enforcement, because that will be the biggest problem. The provisions themselves, except for a few provisions that I'm going to mention, may not be a problem, and to prove that I would care to have a clear dialogue on reality about this law, so I'm going to comment on what we've heard. So we have heard that this law will help reduce the grey economy, allow access to those who are not registered in the system, increase legal certainty, affect equality between entities that are subject to supervision, that the choice of inspections itself will be better arranged and that it will be in line with the less than possible way in which this sector of inspections works in the EU or in the countries of modern rule of law. I'll share with you three examples of paradigms for what inspection is now. The first case is the citizens of Alexander I. Belgrade - Kruševac. The citizen was at the job interview and asked if he was married. Since he knows that he should not be asked, because it is a personal property based on which he cannot be discriminated, he of course opposed the interview immediately defending his rights for which he knows they are. And then he was explained that it's much better for jobs when someone's married, because, for example, they're better off, they're better fighters, and so there's all kinds of folklore. Mostly that condition that he would not release his data was eliminated as a candidate for him. And that's one illustration of the inadmissible state of our country, as you cannot discriminate against your wife's questions about marriage and children, so you can't even tell a man. He turned to the labour inspector and got the answer – we only work with those who are employed. What the citizen Alexander I said – but let's look at Article 18. And then the inspector says -- oh, yeah, really. Then maybe I could work, but you could bring it to me in writing. How many reforms does it take for the labour inspector to read the law that needs to be applied and to know that there is a Article 18 in it? That's our reality, when I say ours, I say it as a picture of the fact that there is no difference between the ruling coalition and the opposition and that it is a problem that must be spoken of so. Another example, to know what reality is, whatever sweet words you put around, I have a lot of understanding for all the sweet words. In the text given in Novi Sad as a plan for environmental protection by 2020, there is a description of the state of inspection now. Of the 40 applications, 33 are obsolete. It's about protecting the environment. Who in front of all of us is responsible for this? We see the inspector, and he is not responsible, since this law does not repair the situation for environmental inspectors. I know that even when they do their entire procedure, when they know what the law they need to apply is when they're thorough, valuable, working and not superficial, as a minister who's as a first-case inspector, they don't know what happens after applying, or having access. It would be good for us during the application of this law, to discuss it in the Assembly, because we all see the inspector, and very often for not applying the law is responsible for someone else who is not seen, as in the case of a case of 40 reports that the inspectors have filed, 33 aged, so for more than two years. A third example, when it comes to educational inspection for higher education, 17 universities, four inspectors, with a parallel story and the idea of no employment, there's nothing. What are those four inspectors gonna do? How are they gonna do their job? How'd they do it so far? Who sees them as responsible for everything we hear as gossip and plots about what happens in the universe and what is the subject of the work of educational inspectors. The four of them are two in Vojvodina and two in other parts of Serbia. One more comment on the law, and that's all I'd ask the Deputy Prime Minister for clarifications, it's about article 22, which is about insight in the living room. When we read that article, at least to me, it becomes a dilemma. When does he start to see? Can there be insight in the living room if someone in the living room simply doesn't object to the inspector's entry, or can't? If anyone dares to interpret this first way, we have a very serious problem with constitutional provisions on the inviolability of the apartment. As much as I support the idea in that part that we don't call ourselves illegal, both illegal and illicit, and that we call ourselves a grey economy from miles away. I'd need a clear answer that's not reading a member of the law, because it's pretty serious. In the end, that newspaper that means that the inspector can monitor, control, plan surveillance in unregistered, small, medium, whatever businesses you want. The year I'm talking about, which is ahead of us to make the infrastructure, so that the first one, who was a citizen of Alexander I, first of all, would have no right to have the other, who filed the applications for free, in order that this third would not only be four, but also a little more for the educational inspection, in order for it to happen during this year, must be clear to everyone that it would affect the reduction of the grey economy of this provision. Because that's not what the law says. I understand the idea, but I think it's too important that we just believe in the word of any of us as a critic or as someone who makes good objections to the law or any of them, by someone else who represents the law. So if you have a gray economy, does this mean that the inspector is looking for workers who are not reported to control the quality of the goods that are on the market, to control the working conditions of the workers who are in the unreported, illegal, for the state of the non-existent facility, or will be aware of the people who sell on the boxes what they have on the market. There are very serious claims that the reform of the inspector's service will lead to a reduction in the grey economy, such as unserious claims that people should only get an appropriate offer from the state to move from the gray zone to a public fiscal, clear zone before the law. I am very sorry that there is little to talk about in Serbia, whether it is a government that I support or in which I am an opposition, that is all, as the old Serbian says, "wishful thinking you want be", the idea of how to really tackle the gray economy. If this is one of the levers, but it doesn't say it in the law, then I'd like to spend a year ahead of us in a clear description of what kind of lever it is, that you're insinuating people from a gray zone to a fiscal and legal zone with inspectors. That's the basic problem of our society. It is a basic problem of approach and approach that we have as a society, regardless of the parties, even though what they are, conditionally speaking, ideologies. And this law has, in my view, generally the wrong approach, which is, in the previous regulations, even worse, so to catch you, to ban you, to meaningless punishment, without the idea of why people in that sector are in the gray economy, and they're not legally reported. There are a number of reasons, and I would like it to be a year from today when this law really is in force or if the Deputy Prime Minister accepts some amendments to be before, to come into force so that it is explained to everyone what these are mechanisms that the system is really going to work so that the citizen has fewer problems regardless of the basis for the inspection. Why am I talking about a citizen who is the center of this law? Because, in my opinion, and here, it was making fun of me so much, important that we all understand that the citizen is the center of the state, that the citizens of the state and that every law we see, we look through an attempt to illustrate how the provisions of this law will change the quality of life of citizens, and that's where the Deputy Prime Minister approached me with a clear and good message. I'm not talking about the powers of the inspection itself, where they change in relation to the work so far, but I'm talking about how any of us who has an encounter with the inspection, what good consequences will leave a change in the way that the inspectors do. I have the pleasure and privilege of knowing people who work in inspections, and it's a frenzy and valuable and honest world that's conveniently doing business. I'm terribly sorry that perception of them is negative because or two or three of the cases we know, or because of what I've been doing, because the labour inspector said it wasn't in the law or he hated doing it, I don't know what happened to him, and he can't do it, he can't. No other inspector can give a party that speaks to him or from his own work to disregard his own obligations. With the hope that, not during this debate, we will have enough clarifications, except for this article 22, it would really, not because of me, because of the public it is important to leave behind a Article 22 that speaks of insight in the living space. I have no doubt in my profession, I have no doubt in the NAED report, nor in the conversation, there is absolutely no doubt, but more a request that people living in this country explain this clearly, when the integrity of the apartment is, and I hope that in the months ahead, we will have the opportunity not in the context of the debate, but in the framework of committees, public hearings, round tables, whatever the government or whatever the relevant committees come up with, that we will be constantly in the exchange of information about how the skeleton is being built, that with all the members of this law be the flesh that makes the body of the rule of law, in which every inspection behaves so as to see the citizen of Serbia as the centre of its operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24374	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24375	First I will answer your question, Mrs. Comic, which you want to be unequivocally put. Article 22 certainly respects the constitutional integrity of the apartment. If you look closely at that member, it is evident that the inspection of the apartment can only be carried out on the basis of the court's order and there must be a written proposal for the issuing of a command of insight in the residence of the primary court. When it comes to those other issues that you want to talk about next year, we are already having these discussions intensively. We have presented the law in detail on the Committee in the Assembly, and we intend to continue this practice and cooperation. We will do our best to explicitly invite you to such opportunities for dialogue, but I would like to point out here that nothing that is as complex as reducing the grey economy cannot be solved with one or two measures. This law must, in any case, contribute to the reduction of the grey economy, perhaps not to the extent to which it should not be implemented properly, but to the provisions of the law itself, which say that information will now be exchanged between inspections, that the inspection plan will be carried out on the basis of a risk analysis and, most importantly, that they will not be able to even deafen the existence and functioning of unregistered and illegal entities. This changes one simple variable among many variables that act on the existence of a gray economy, which is a probability variable, i.e. the risk of being caught and costing you. The grey economy comes in an estimate between the price of being out of the law, i.e. an estimate of the price ratio of being outside the law and the price that would be for you to operate under the law. No matter what many factors we're working on developing a gray economy control programme at this point in the coordination body for the fight against the gray economy, which is very supportive of the economy, means, although there is this programme, even though we plan to deal with all the factors that are affecting the existence of the gray economy, only the adoption of the law and its implementation at least formally, if not how we plan to implement it, in which case it really radically changes the situation, in any case it has to act on reducing the grey economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24376	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24377	Thank you. In front of us, the inspection control Act is very important and the reasons for its adoption are multiple. It is incomprehensible that this important activity in Serbia has been regulated by the 1992 state administration law so far. Of course the whole system worked really badly. It's really our last moment to discuss this law. That he is on the agenda at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today because the reform of inspection supervision is necessary and because this bill should, above all, act preventively through the inspection services in the Republic of Serbia. It is quite clear that under the 1992 Law on State Administration, the work of inspection services is difficult, that their way of functioning is completely overcome and unadjusted the moment in which business is being done and that, in fact, according to the current Law, we have a large number of conflicts of jurisdiction, which leads to some economic operators being unnecessarily controlled and usually those whose performance is most in line with the law. Of course, I will, in my explanation, use everything that NAED and USAID have noticed. It is good that their observations have entered the proposal for this law, but I also think it is very important that in the proposal of this law they are fully on one side and on the economy and state and inspection and that all have a fully uniform view of the need for this law. I think this bill will solve many of the problems we have, not only in the work of inspection services, but also in the fact that the excessive normative framework with which many inspection services meet. I will only list some of the data that, for example, the Market Inspectorate applies the provisions of as many as 88 laws and 25 sublaws, which is a sum of 113 regulations. There is not much lagging behind the phytosanitary inspection with a total of 110 regulations, the health-sanitary inspection with 91, but the absolute champion in this respect is the tax administration applying 149 regulations, of which even 132 regulations are sublegal acts. When all this data is taken into account, it is clear that it is not surprising that the importance of inspections is ignored. A large number of regulations, as well as their frequent changes that result in a change in the jurisdiction of inspections, lead to the lack of transparency of their work and create a generally bad picture of inspections and lead to the mistrust of citizens. As I said, there is no law in Serbia's legal system that systematically regulates the area of inspection supervision. I expect this bill to improve the work of inspections, make business easier and contribute to general legal certainty. Discordation in the work of inspections is evident. The legal solution is that the co-ordination committee, as a body educated by the government and whose prestigious task is to monitor the level of coordination of inspection achieved, solve this problem. I know you've been in a dilemma as to whether this job should be entrusted to the coordinating body or whether it's a single inspectorate. I fully respect the reasons why you opted for the coordination body, because as a working group you took into account the experience of countries that had a unique inspectorate and that had major gaps in control of inspection services, so I think that in the proposal of each law, regardless of the specificities of each country, it is very important to take into account the facts and practices in the environment that, when we have a new law, actually makes us come to the right solution. What inspections do not have specialized software, nor a single database has clearly been a major problem so far for the functioning of inspections. I know you needed to secure the money and get to that unique database. It will be very important in the continued work of inspections and I think it will lead to great advantages, that in this way systematic assignments will be made possible for inspectors, as well as monitoring these cases, that transparency, uniform insight of inspectors into document content, data exchange, risk assessment and surveillance planning will be possible. I believe that by the end of 2017, as planned, you will have a circle of this unique information system that is necessary in the work of inspection services. I agree with all my colleagues who have said that there is also a need for greater transparency in the daily work of inspections. I think this will be made possible through the full availability of laws and sublegal acts in electronic form, which is the intensity and legislator. Now we're all facing one big problem in the work of inspection services, which is capacity. I don't have enough capacity. We have an insufficient number of inspectors, given the size of the work that lies ahead of the inspections. A particular problem is that the number of inspectors is smaller than job systems. In particular, this is expressed in a building inspection where capacity fill is in the right jobs, according to the systemization act, only 53.8% and then we come into a situation where an inspector, for example, controls 1,308 objects, which is really a lot. It is also particularly concerned that the existing when it is not systematically trained for work, resulting in an unequal treatment of inspections and a low level of legal certainty. Nice to meet you, Because we cannot receive enough jobs in the public sector, the deficit is very evident and I believe that these problems will be resolved in the next period. They must be resolved in order for inspection services to do their job in the right way and it is good that all the abovementioned objections which I have made to are submitted in the law and in Article 46 which regulates the conditions for the conduct of inspection tasks, in Article 47, which introduces an examination for inspectors, in Article 50 which regulates the right and obligation of professional training of inspectors, in Article 51, the uniform appearance of official legislation and the 54th internal control of inspections shall be arranged. The problem of the law so far has also been that there is no clear criterion for assessing the work of inspectors, nor is there a system for rewarding them. At present, the work of the inspector is appreciated by their effect being valued on the basis of the number of controls carried out and measures imposed, i.e. penalties, and in fact the intensity should be at the very point of prevention. The new law fully implemented this suggestion by regulating, in the provisions of Article 33, a special procedure against unregistered entities and simply stressing urgent actions, giving particular authority to the inspector. It is very important that certain amendments submitted by colleagues are also taken into account, there are 111 of them and relating to the discretionary rights of the inspector. I don't believe in any discretion. I simply believe that every other law should be clear enough and that it has very precise instructions that inspectors must work on. The clearer the law, the easier it is for all of us. The less discretionary powers there is, the better for every law. Also, the jurisdiction of inspection to take action in the fight against the gray economy and this law was very limited. Article 33, as well as Article 21, lays down those powers of inspectors to a large extent to the timely handling of inspectors, which further strengthens the regulatory framework in the fight against the gray economy, and I think that the present problem was also in the absence of sufficient and clear coordination between the work of inspection services, prosecutors and courts. It can't even be the subject of this law right now. It's a general problem throughout the country and in the application of all the laws, but I think we all have to try to get the police, the prosecution and the courts to work in coordination. We will have a much larger number of resolved and court proceedings and the work of inspection services in general will be very transparent and will have better results. Article 9 sets out risk assessments and this is an extremely important moment when planning inspection surveillance activities and indeed parallel practice shows that in many countries inspection controls are carried out solely on the basis of a risk assessment. Such practice is also represented in the region, which unfortunately is not the case with us right now. Only 46% of the inspections analysed in the Republic of Serbia are currently subject to risk assessment and I think that the positive effects of such planning are multiple, reducing the number of unnecessary inspection controls in those entities that carry out their activity in accordance with regulations, i.e. those in which the risk is relatively low. The provision in Article 18(4) explicitly states that the inspector will not initiate proceedings under official duty on the basis of a presupposal if the estimated risk is minor or is a matter of abuse of law. So, both here and in this case, the law gives discretion to assess how specific the concept is established, and that it already takes into account the risk assessment as one of the essential parameters. As far as these discretionary powers are concerned, I have given my opinion and I repeat once again that I think it is very important in every law to have them as little as possible. All in all, this bill sets out an accent on the preventive functioning of inspection services, suggests the planning of controls to be based on an adequate risk assessment, has an unusable better coordination of a number of inspections which primarily protects the interest of the operators themselves and aims at equating the practices of inspection bodies by adopting opinions and instructions for handling in the same and similar legal situations. I think the Resorient Ministry has done a good job by proposing this law, because they have listened to the opinion and pulse of those who are most interested in this matter being arranged and the aim of this law is to strengthen the capacity of inspection services. I expect that in the coming period we will see their better work and that, together with the sublegal acts, we will soon begin to feel the advantage of this bill. On this occasion, I would like to inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this system law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24378	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24379	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with his associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, of the need to pass such a system and reform law, as the proposal for a law on inspection supervision that we are discussing today speaks sufficiently of the fact that Serbia has not so far had a single legal act to regulate the work of inspection bodies. Nearly 1000 laws, regulations, sublegal acts so far have regulated the withdrawal of inspection bodies. In Serbia, there are indeed 36 republican inspections and 37 is a municipal inspection at the local level that is in charge of performing the tasks of local self-government. In addition, there are many public bodies that monitor and control economic operators and carry out essentially similar tasks and inspection bodies, both irrational and unnecessary, for both the budget and the economy. When the inspection is mentioned, our citizens generally have one negative reaction, voice suspicion of professionalism, express suspicion of well-intentionedness, and all this is due to one experience in working with inspection bodies, the result of intricacies, and the corruption of what we have many examples of past periods and we know that some officers of inspection services have been sheltered, and the situation of abuse and harming others. Unfortunately, as colleague Mirko Chikiriz said, it was in some past tense, but there is that now. In addition to the perception that citizens and businessmen have in relation to the authorities of the inspection, there are many analyses and research that indicate exactly the consequences resulting from the existence of a single legal act, which would regulate the work of inspection bodies. So the provisions of the Law on State Administration which are both outdated and unadjusted to the current conditions of business, the current economic and economic situation in Serbia, are now being applied to the conduct of the inspection bodies, the business environment that is seeking some modern standards in the work of inspection services. Of course, it is not easy to work in a legal space where over 1,000 regulations cover the work of inspection bodies. It's a forest of regulations that makes it hard for both citizens and businessmen, including inspections. In addition, the opinion is expressed that the work of inspection is one of the major corruption areas. Overcoming regulations, looking through fingers, bribery, corruption, it's all something between which you put a sign of equality between it and citizens. There are many objections from both citizens and businessmen to the conduct and work of inspection bodies. The most sensitive areas are health, food safety, education, and citizens are extremely sensitive when it comes to construction and municipal inspection. Indeed, it is illogical and incomprehensible that they are under constant control and supervision by those economic operators who comply with the rules, who legally operate, who pay their contributions and fulfil their tax obligations, while on the other hand, gray economy channels get out of control, mostly street traffickers who are dealing literally to survive and who are the smallest link in that chain of economies, and the large ones continue to remain intact. Given the scale and importance of the grey economy in Serbia and the representation of corruption, again in relation to the gray economy, this problem must indeed be approached seriously, systematically and in the coordination of the authorities of inspection, police, prosecution, judiciary, municipal inspection and all those who, through joint work and performance, can influence the translation of illegal business into some legal flows and thus reduce the presence of grey economy in Serbia. It is definitely necessary to create a system where inspection bodies will be in service of the part of the business that operates legally, the part of the company that adheres to the regulations and that the inspection bodies are exactly what the Ministers said, a driver of economic development, while at the same time having planned, regular and strict controls affecting those who are illegally and unregistered, because indeed together and co-ordinated, we must influence that the grey economy in Serbia is destroyed, because this is a very great evil for Serbia. In practice, it was definitely shown to us by the businessmen and pointed out that the controls of inspection bodies that were unplanned and unannounced in the businessmen affected poor business. These controls usually take a long time, cause some additional costs, and on the other hand do not give positive results when it comes to inspections, i.e. they do not produce those results which are otherwise inspection controls carried out in good faith. Therefore, it is extremely good to have this provision of the Inspectorate Control Act, which refers to the fact that inspection supervision must be announced and planned in the future, of course, in accordance with the risk assessment and assessment. Of course, there are exceptions when he won't have to be announced, but in all other cases he does. It will be good for the businessmen and it is good that inspection services will have to coordinate with each other, that it does not happen as it has been, that at one point in time a more inspection is found to the same economic operator. It is very important to establish institutional jurisdiction and co-ordination with the Customs Administration, which is a very important link in curbing the gray economy. Economic operators also point out that no minor problem is unclear and unequal interpretation of the rules as well as the expression of inappropriately high fines in certain cases, which leads us to the fact that the legitimate opinion that otherwise exists in the people and has already spoken of them, that inspections when they go into the control of an economic operator simply have to find something, they have to pay some fine, because it is one of the ways in which they charge the budget. It is certainly necessary to distinguish between those who deliberately break the law, who deliberately do not comply with the rules and those who, in certain individual cases, and accidentally make some mistake in business, which each of us who does business can make. In these cases, it is very important that exactly what the law predicts, that the inspection reacts preventively, with a warning or with a record and to warn of failures in work, leaves a certain time limit for these to be missed, not immediately to impose dragonish fines. That's very important for those who are just starting to do some work, and for those who are already doing something. The economic and financial situation of the economic operator subject to control should be assessed. It's one of the ways to just suppress the opinion that inspectors are something terrible, that the visit to the inspection is something bad. We simply need to make a system for inspections to be those that will affect citizens' awareness to that level that the law, regulations and procedures must be respected. Inspections should be institutions that, apart from affecting both control and prevention and punishment, will have to be those that will have a major impact on both corruption and the grey economy, affect businesses, affect one greater economic growth and create a better business environment. If we go into further analysis of the work of the inspection bodies, we also find a series of opposites. For example, I have already stated that there are 36 republican inspections in Serbia and that it is both irrational and unnecessary and that it is okay. But, on the other hand, we know that there is an insufficient number of inspectors present on the ground and that one inspector controls several economic operators, so that its effectiveness is questioned in the control of that economic operator, and it is questionable and its ability to monitor the situation in the area covered by a particular inspector. In addition to the number of inspectors present on the ground, the problem is also the poor equipment of inspection bodies. Equipment has worn out, lack of basic resources to work and all this leads to not only that inspectors cannot adequately carry out their work, but there is a situation that simply cannot go to the subject subject subject to control. Unfortunately, this problem cannot be solved by the bill either, but there must be some other way to address this situation when the technical equipment of the inspection is concerned. The introduction of a risk assessment will solve the problem that the inspections otherwise had, because they had to go into the field and control operators on each application, some of which were either malicious or baseless. Thus unnecessary costs were created, unnecessary resources of inspection and unnecessarily harassed economic operators were used. The introduction of a risk assessment by means of a proposal for this law, the entry on application will be limited, so that the inspector will not be obliged to initiate the supervision procedure when it is assessed that the degree of risk is not such as to question the regular business of a particular economic operator. After everything seen and based on the perception of citizens and businessmen and based on numerous analyses and research, the question arises how to make order in the work of inspection bodies, how to restore citizens' trust in state or inspection bodies and to convince them that they work in their interest. It certainly takes a lot, but the first real step is to pass the inspection control law, which we are discussing today and which is first codified and puts the entire area of inspection in one frame. In some ways, this is a roof law governing the basic principles, types, procedures, forms of inspection supervision, as well as the powers and obligations of all inspection control participants, which is an extremely significant link in achieving the control role of the state in implementing and implementing the law. The work of inspections is directly reflected in the exercise of many citizens' rights, but it also reflects the work of the economy and the work of the state services. One of the high-quality newspapers provided for in the proposal for this law refers to the introduction of a co-ordination committee to be educated by the Government as a co-ordination body, which will be tasked with ensuring more comprehensive and effective supervision, as well as avoiding overlapping and unnecessary inspection supervision. Also, the inspector’s examination or licensing is another guarantee that the work will be done by professional and trained people, who will resist all the challenges of the profession and preserve the dignity of the state. In conclusion, this is the law that prescribes modern standards of inspection supervision and common rules and procedures for inspections, which will pretty much introduce order in the work of inspection bodies, facilitate business of economic operators, which is the aim of the law, to remove all observed problems, to reduce corruption space, to prevent the selective application of inspection supervision and thus contribute to the creation of a regulated state, as Serbia should be. This is an extremely good bill, I really can't find any regrets, no matter how hard I try. The SPS parliamentary group will support the bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24380	Thank you, Mrs. Spasojevic. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24381	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, fellow Members, has been said today, but I will try to sublime briefly the reasons why we are even passing such a law today. First of all, the work of inspection services with us for the past 20 and more years has been cancer of the wounds of this society, precisely because you haven't been united in one place by legislation that will be able in a certain way to sublime and solve all those problems in the society that are happening, regardless of whether the tax administration, the market inspection, whether there are any inspections on which there have been words, from any area. What is important, this law is reforming inspection work and covers 36 different inspections, especially in the 12 ministries, without which the ministries simply could not function. That's why it's important that for the first time, this concept is now being put in place. What we need to thank this ministry is that really when it took over the task, it took over something that started in 2011 to do, writing such a legal solution. On the one hand, it began from those who were the bearers of the job, which are the very inspections themselves, and further joined in these working groups by ministerial assistants, state secretaries, even law professors. A broad consensus has been reached on making such a legal solution. Therefore, there should have been a lot of patience and flexibility and implementation of everyone’s view of this problem in society, and as a result, we have come to this legal solution. The problems of the economy, of course, for the work of inspections were always great, but, above all, the results that show by 2012, that the work of the authorities was bad for you, for example, when you classify Serbia with regard to the fight against corruption, somewhere in 78 of the 175 was Serbia, one of the main reasons was the work of inspection bodies. Secondly, when certain research was done, which are elements that block the arrival of foreign direct investment and interested investors to invest in Serbia, the fifth place was also, as one of the things that stops business activities somewhere, the work of inspection authorities. The research done by thousands of companies in 2012 has helped to make such a legal solution. They showed that heavy costs due to the inadequate work of inspection bodies, even that the loss of the economy was about 2.5m euros, that the number of penalties increased more and that the effects of behaviour and economic operators, but also the inspector had not changed, but had simply forced some of their concepts that had become obsolete and understood inspection as some necessary evil that needed to be bypassed, and the inspectors represented fear and shivering, but with an insufficiently defined control system. What is important to say, there was no coordination which was essentially now given by this law and what is most important is that the procedure, methodology and measures prescribed simply showed that there were no adequate capacities, or that the inspectors themselves were not sufficiently educated and did not follow the legal solutions under which they were being supervised, which caused great damage, including in terms of European integration and harmonisation of regulations, because what the Assembly simply adopted on the ground could not be implemented. The reasons why we have today and this new law is that, in addition to saying that there are old methods of functioning inspection, they simply did not take all the conditions of the risk with which the inspection law has been applied so far. It is interesting that the equipment that existed, and now exists, after all, but it seems to me that somewhere it is going towards the introduction of new information technologies and new software that more and more employees are ruling, by 2012, they were not at a satisfactory level that they could even cope with all the changes that we had in the legal context. What needs this law and what are the goals set? They are set to, above all, be carried out, in addition to all economic reforms, reforms of the control function that inspections should have. The largest accent is given to the tax administration, market inspection, labour inspectorate and urban inspection, construction inspection, but also municipal inspections in cities. What has been noted is that the ratio of the number of inspectors provided for certain systems has not always been complete and it shows that this coverage is between 87% and 88%, but when you see what the number of control subjects is by one inspector, then they are amazing figures. For example, in the tax administration by one inspector you have 180 cases, in the labour inspectorate 1,308, in the urban inspection 20, a small number of inspectors are if you compare compared to the number of controls carried out. Examples work, tax administration – one inspector exercises control over 25,889 subjects. As you can see, if there is no synchronisation in the work of the inspection bodies, it is simply inadequately impossible to implement in general any law, and the best law in this Assembly and the best regulations and regulations prescribed by the ministry. Therefore, one of the main reasons why we have this law today is that we essentially round up the system of economic reforms in terms of legality, which is the adoption of this law, a new, modern concept that needs to bring us great results in terms of and the creation of new jobs and the creation of an investment environment, that investors have predictable business when they come here and open new businesses, new factories and employ new people. When we talk about you saying that there are practically three pillars, the main goals that we're talking about, that's evening the rules, you're also talking about coordination of work, it's good that there's a coordinated body that's going to try to bring it all together, and I'm going to say why. In addition, there is this technical equipment that we talked about and I think it will be in everyone's interest to simply through the software pooled list, which will be able to be found on the site through the work reports, you have provided transparency of the functioning of the inspection itself. So far, it's been under some kind of secret, somewhere there's been an impression in businesses that only some of them come, that only certain inspections come, that they don't go to competition, that you have a number of inspections that come in one day, if they want to shut down open businesses. So now there will be no more. Secondly, the system itself and the possibility of any corruption by any economic operators, and in this respect with the inspectors, simply disappears. So all possibilities and mechanisms to eliminate any negative consequences as far as inspection surveillance is concerned here, I think it must have been 99% of the cases removed. It should also be said that there is a specificity in the work when we talk about inspection bodies at the level of the Regional Government, i.e. AP Vojvodina and local self-government, i.e. cities and municipalities. This means that, following the vote of this law of the Statute, that is, the acts adopted by the congregations of cities and municipalities and acts signed by the mayors and the presidents of the municipalities will have to have components of this law, they will have to act in accordance with this law and will have to define certain activities which, for example, have municipal inspections. Because in the case of municipal inspections, there are certain specificities in the work, but you have foreseen them with this law, which is very good. It is that there are certain confidential transactions from the level of the Republic at the level of municipalities and cities, such as, say, market inspections. There will even be co-ordination bodies at the level of cities that will co-operate with the co-ordination body of the Republic of Serbia. There are also cases where certain inspectors will not always punish and will not be able to teach the party, but will now be an imperative. This means that inspectors will be able in a certain way and verbally to give specific recommendations and advice as to how economic operators will be able to function in accordance with the law. This part of which refers to curbing the grey economy really doesn't need to be explained, because so far it's always been stimulated, especially in the time of the economic crisis and when we were in the 1990s, somewhere it was acceptable in society to do business for people without any economic operator, without any PIB, to stand on the street and sell goods that simply went outside of budget flows and out of state institutions. So, it's quite logical that now that you have a way of finding a particular party that deals with the gray economy, selling illegal goods, no registered store, you can react immediately as an inspector, which so far has not been legally possible, immediately call either the police or the APR, the Administration of Income to inform that a certain person with his name and last name is doing a certain business, that he can now open his own company through whom he will work and simply drag him into legal business flows in this society. As a result, this level of grey economy, which ranged from 35% from 2005 to 2012, and up to 30% fell in 2012, shows that these 30% of the grey economy, which operates through certain non-registered companies, will now certainly fall because it will allow people to function in an extremely legal manner. What simply shows this law is that these newspapers, which are related to and the education of the inspectors themselves, will show that the level and quality of these services, i.e. the work that the inspectors will do, will also require their certification and the passing of professional exams, that they will have some period of two years to really show that they have accepted all these newspapers somewhere and that they will be able to deal with these newspapers in an adequate manner. I think that will certainly lead to better results in business activities. It's inevitable, including all those laws we passed here in the Assembly. I think that local self-government will also understand that they have received relief mechanisms that will make it easier for them to implement those laws, those regulations and acts that they adopt and local parliaments, because they will also charge certain taxis that go to local self-government themselves with stronger mechanisms, that they will not have to wait for the Republic to transfer them from the budget, but will be able to deal with it themselves. I think this law belongs to a modern law and I think that such a legal solution really has included all relevant entities in society dealing with this topic. I think that in the voting day we should accept this law and indeed, as far as the negotiations are concerned, and when we talk about the amendments that were in the context of co-operation with the Economic Cocus and your ministry, we should be satisfied, because you have shown that you have no problem working with all parliamentary groups at all, and in order to get the best solutions. That is why we will support this proposal in the voting day as a member of the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24382	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. Now we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. Is Mr. Jovanovic in the O.R.? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Milan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24383	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected minister and representatives of the ministry, respected chairman, the Serbian People's Party considers it important to pass a roof law that would regulate the work of inspection services and strengthen their coordination. So far, because of the absence of legal regulation, the area has suffered the most from the economy through the appearances of the gray economy, but also from the avoidance of taxes. No one was seriously involved in inspections during the previous period. There have been individual cases of editing segments in this area, such as, say, the Law on Administrative Inspection. For these very reasons, as regards the rules governing this area, there is a certain disorganization, as there is estimated to be some 1000 regulations governing inspection, each ministry has its own kind of inspection, and there is no coordination, no working plan between them. The space for corruption was still huge, and it is precisely this high degree of gray economy in Serbia, which is why the most businessmen and entrepreneurs who have done their job fairly and paid the state all their legal obligations. The Serbian People's Party believes that, both in the interests of the citizens and in the interest of the economy, every segment of the state administration must be strengthened and the authority of civil servants raised. The state administration is a service of citizens and businesses and reforms should begin immediately. Weak, though, was also working on education. The good part of the administration is V.D. the situation because the Law on civil servants is not respected, nor competitions for official posts are discussed. It's been going on for years. We have no idea how many employees there really are in the public administration, or how much it really takes to exist. The Serbian People's Party believes a reform of public administration must lead to an effective state-run apparatus that would help solve matters that are in the interest of businesses faster. Such changes can lead to new jobs in the real sector. We want to believe that the adoption of this law is the beginning of the reforms we expected. We have objections to this law and we have made amendments. We believe that some solutions still leave a good space for corruption, that some actions are unnecessaryly agreed, that some issues are simply not resolved. Let's say, we think the bad solution is to announce an inspection three days in advance, we believe that this announcement should not exist. Even the exceptions that are being made to this matter are too wide, and remain completely discreet to the inspector. It can all be a place for corruption. We also have an example of missing several groups, whole groups of legal entities, let's say, trade unions, because Article 3 refers only to entities established by the Agency for Economic Registers. We'll talk about all these amendments in the principle debate, of course. What is most important is that we need to strengthen the position of inspectors, strengthen its authority, because we are thus strengthening the authority of the state. It also strengthens the trust of citizens and businesses in the country. The inspector must be well paid, highly professional, and he must be proud to work for the state. Also, coordination of inspection services must be strengthened, since this is now the biggest problem. We expect you to carefully consider all the amendments I have tabled on behalf of the Serbian People's Party, as I believe their adoption will make this text much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24384	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. He's not in the O.R. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24385	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the new Law on Inspectives offers improvements, offers new procedures that have been improved in some way through public debate and that is something that is good in this proposal. I agree that the proposal should contribute to the reduction of the grey economy, because I do not share the minister's optimistic announcements that this will have a key impact on the size of the gray economy itself, because it is generally known that inspection supervision itself is only fifth of all matters when it comes to the gray economy. I think it's far more important than how the investment cycle in Serbia is going to be, how much taxes, how much businesses will be burdened by parafiscal burdens that businesses see as a much bigger problem. Of course, inspections are a problem, especially the three biggest ones, and the economy sees them as something that is problematic, primarily because of a procedure that is non-transparent, because of inspectors who are once not sufficiently educated, inspectors who sometimes act not only in accordance with the law, but are subject to various competitive influences. That's what businessmen see as a problem, as a lack. These problems are very costing the economy. I think it's a good idea to introduce the possibility of a good information system through this law in practice, but I don't think it's enough that there are only three members, or three laws dealing with this topic. I think the law itself needed to better define how the information system will be applied in this law itself. The application of this law is a key problem. I think that I need from a system that is depreciated, depreciated, inefficient, and people who also function in it, we come to a system that will make our inspections much more effective, that their success is not measured at the level of the fine they have charged, but to measure how much they have contributed to the implementation of the law, how much they have contributed to the citizens' concrete sense of what it means when the National Assembly adopts some reform law. If that law remains a dead letter on paper, and if there is no control over its application, then we haven't done much. I think that in the application of this law, a significant role will be given to administrative inspection and control of application, because there are problematic places, especially Article 22, where I think it is necessary to take strict care of how individual inspectors act. There are a large number of amendments to the MPs. I am sure that you will consider these amendments and that those who are good and have them will be accepted and that this law will be slightly improved. I hope that by applying this law we will come to a situation where the economy, the citizens will no longer see the inspectors as enemies, and will no longer fear, even if they operate in accordance with the law, from the very arrival of the inspectors, because it was a practice in the past. In 2014, we have an increase in the number and penalties charged, we have a situation that almost a quarter of businessmen, says that if they offer a large enough bribe that the inspector will agree to close one eye when it comes to applying a certain law. This law is also very important in terms of Serbia's European integration, in terms of harmonisation of the rules, but above all important that our economic environment is similar to the European free market. I say, the key is how you apply this law, and the key is how fast and what dynamics the electronic system will also be able to apply. I think there's a great possibility especially when it comes to risk assessment, because if a civil servant is someone who administrations, who can be corrupt, that information system can't be. In the information system only due to the exact data, a checklist can be reached and a fair control plan can be reached for businesses and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24386	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Milena Ćorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24387	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Presidency, the respected representatives of the ministry, the honourable MPs, the Law on Inspective Oversight that we are considering today, should address all issues related to the conduct of the inspection within the framework of the state administration. The inspection work is carried out by a small number of civil servants in an enormous number of surveillance entities, and it is highly likely that individual inspections in certain control entities do not come for years, especially where out-of-town and municipality headquarters are performed. When an inspection comes, it shall be strictly restricted within the limits of its powers and when registering irregularities from the jurisdiction of other inspections, they shall not record it to their notaries and shall not inform other inspections of irregularities detected on the ground. This law obliges all inspectors, regardless of which inspection acts, to record, in the inspection procedure, irregularities detected from the jurisdiction of the second inspection and to notify the competent inspection in due time for further action and action. This legal solution creates conditions for deficiencies to be recorded and will be removed faster because, in practice, a large number of government officials, or inspectors, participate in their detections. For the purposes of this case, if the supervision is carried out by a veterinary inspection, a agricultural inspection or a market inspection, it shall determine in the procedure that the staff has not carried out a sanitary examination it shall be logical to record it in the record and to inform the competent sanitary inspection thereof. It is also logical to inform the tax administration and the labour inspector if the supervision of any inspection amongst other things finds that the person found in the work process has not completed the relevant contract with the employer. The law is most expected to produce high results in terms of the elimination of lawless work spread in Serbia, which is a driver of the gray economy. It is known that a large number of citizens perform some work without registration at the APR, so they also do not pay taxes to the state, and citizens, in the context of, for example, a local community. Also, in every local community, in every village, it is known who illegally sells goods, who illegally performs catering work, who illegally carries out transportation, some production or craftsmanship. But citizens do not know that to carry out trade, market inspection, to carry out illegal hospitality is a tourist inspection, to carry out illegal transport traffic inspection, to carry out the health care work of a health inspection, for these reasons a legal solution is good that allows all inspections to be involved in lawless work and to be discovered more quickly by perpetrators of the offence and to inform the tax administration in due time so that everyone who performs the work is paid and tax. Under this law, when the inspector finds that the supervised entity has committed an infringement through a violation of the law for which another inspection is competent, he is required to establish, based on his knowledge and experience, the minutes, without delay, the irregularities identified and the follow-up to the competent inspection and the coordination committee for the purpose of further action. In the case of an unregistered entity engaged in the performance of another inspection, the inspector shall immediately inform the tax administration and the inspection in which the activity performed by the unregistered entity is part of the activity. Also, when an inspector sees a supervised entity performing an activity in the jurisdiction of another inspection, he needs to take urgent steps to prevent or eliminate the dangers to the lives and health of people, property, environment or plant and animal life. It is necessary to immediately notify the inspection in which the work is carried out by the supervised entity and the emergency sector at the MUP. Directly upon the notice of the competent authorities, the inspector shall make up an official note of the situation found and the notifications made. It means that an unregistered entity is also a supervised entity and all measures prescribed by law are applied even though it is not registered with the APR. Where an inspector is acting in an inspection procedure with an entity entered in the relevant registry, he shall find a person working without an appropriate contract and shall have all the powers which he or she has and according to an unregistered entity, it shall be noted that the inspection supervision of an unregistered entity will be carried out without notice and even if it is not provided for by the inspection plan without issuing an inspection order. I believe that the application of this law will contribute significantly to the effectiveness of the work of the inspection body and better co-operation given that inspections are organised in several ministries. The law is expected to contribute to greater expertise, given that inspectors will be on a knowledge check through the passing of an appropriate exam. In particular, it came to the meeting of employers who have been working for years with respect to regulations, as they will have announced inspection visits according to the surveillance plan and will no longer happen that the same employers have a large number of controls over a short period of time by more inspections. Employers will have the opportunity to get acquainted online with the surveillance plan, the surveillance content and other issues related to the conduct of inspectors. A major financial effect is expected by aggressive surveillance in the field of the gray economy, where illegal work will be significantly reduced and reduced into real frameworks, and for years it has been demanded by employers who are legally carrying out their activities. In addition to the positive facts listed, I believe that the Inspective Control Act will make a major contribution to the overall rationalisation and more efficient work of the state administration, from municipalities, cities, provinces, to the state bodies of the institutions. For these reasons, the PUPS parliamentary group will support the Inspective Control Act in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24388	Thank you, Mrs. Corilic. The word has a national emissary, Natasa Vučković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24389	I thank you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Madam Minister, it is good that today we are discussing this law that has long been being prepared and I must say that it is a good thing that a public debate has been held in which numerous NGOs, associations, business associations that have an interest in settling this area. The minister spoke in the introduction about how important this law is for the business community in Serbia. When all of us as MPs, who we represent citizens of which some of them are, we would like them to be much more than they are, representatives of business and business communities, we know that all those in contact with inspections as they have been and how they've worked so far, have experienced them as some kind of criminal expeditions, which, in a system of such deep corruption, have really made it difficult for our economy to work, especially those segments that make up small and medium-sized enterprises in local communities where there is not enough space for protection or control. So this law is a very good idea. It came about, because I was dealing with this topic and I know how they reformed the inspection control system in BiH, Croatia, too, so the whole idea of creating one co-ordination at the central coordination body level is good. What's important is that some new elements are introduced, which is, say, prevention, means that inspections play a preventive role and that in that sense they are not just criminal expeditions, but that they should also help that segment of society they should work with. However, I am afraid that the effects of such a law, that it has not actually gone far in defining the solutions that have been proposed and that, if it is desired, we will really have some change for the better in this segment of the state administration, that very soon it will have to be further defined by some new law, i.e. amendments and additions. Surely in the practice of our inspections it is necessary, perhaps to unite some inspections, to unite the resources of some inspections, because we know that our inspection bodies actually have very little resources. When you look at how the inspections of veterinary or labour inspections work, how little resources and equipment works, it is impossible to expect large and more significant results, but we know that inspections are necessary precisely for the application of those standards, when we talk about introducing European standards in all areas of our work and life, inspections should be controlled in how these standards are applied. Resources are insufficient. So you have to go to some pooling of resources. There's not enough in this law. Also, there's no decentralisation plan. Most inspections are still scheduled to work at the level of decentralised units rather than decentralisation, which would be logical in terms of some democratisation and the approximation of some authorities of the administration, more to the local community and citizens. What would also be important is to strengthen the capacity of inspectors through education. I am very disappointed with one solution provided for by the law, which is that all inspectors who are currently employed in inspection bodies, and do not meet the conditions laid down in this new law, only two years from now, will it be necessary for the state to pass an exam that would be in line with the new law. What's also important is that he had in mind how citizens see inspections. Citizens are according to some of the research done, very dissatisfied with the work of the inspection, first of all those inspections with which they have the most contact, it's municipal, construction, etc., because that's what they are most interested in in their daily lives and citizens are the ones who make observations, actually reporting different inspections. What is important and what all citizens say is that when we report to the inspection that something is wrong, we never have feedback on what happened, and that's something that could be predicted by this law. I think that would be very important for the citizens. What the three main bad solutions are, above all, is the question of how the coordination committee is defined. It is predicted that within three months, from the date of entry into force, a co-ordination committee will be formed, but it is not clearly provided for by law by its composition or the mandate of its members, nor are its powers clearly defined. It is that it can be decided by the Government, but given the revolutionary nature of this law, as announced, it would be better, if the law had made it more detailed, because in this way, when it was not defined by law, a large area of arbitration would be opened again, that the government would fill this commission without some particular criteria, perhaps by some political similarities. Also, when we look at Article 69, we see that, in fact, until this harmonisation of the law, we all talk about very uncoordinated criteria under which commissions operate, that there is a complicated division of competences and that there are insufficient distinctions and many of our businessmen and entrepreneurs talk about it, that it is actually often done that inspections cover practically the same issues, but that in different ways, different provisions of different laws are inconsistencies. The 69th article does not give us enough reason to think that such an arrangement actually must occur. The procedure envisaged is very complicated, etc. What concerns me most is that the colleague Komic, who is a member of 22nd and in our opinion is a serious threat to the right to the non-vulnerability of the apartment, because Article 22 provides that the inspection can request the court's approval, as stated in paragraph 1, if the owner of the apartment or the owner of the apartment is opposed to the exercise of insight. A large number of our citizens know nothing about their rights. Let's not have illusions. This is, if we consider that the number of inspectors, and you know better than I do, has the right to ask the owner of the apartment to enter your apartment and make some insight, and there is no decision about it, this is a very dangerous solution. I fear that this will create a large number of abuses, that citizens will not have any protection and that this is essentially the opposite of the Constitution, and look at Article 40. The Constitution on the inviolability of the apartment, as well as Article 20, which speaks of how the restriction of human and minority rights can be applied. So they're obliged to take care of the essence of the rights they restrict. The invulnerability of the apartment is one of the key rights, fellow MPs and ministers. It is therefore important to take care of the purpose of the restriction, nature, and scope of the restrictions, not to mention how much of the courts will be additionally burdened by having to make decisions and opinions on whether or not to look into and search. So this is going to be a serious violation of human and civil rights and I think we are creating an additional space for the European Court of Human Rights to operate in Strasbourg. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24390	Thank you, Mrs. Vuchkovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Korri Udovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24391	I am quite in agreement with Mrs Vuckovic when she states that a lot of regulatory work will be needed to fully implement this law and we have already predicted and prepared it. There's an action plan for the next two years, there's a series of sublegal acts that have to be passed and which are partially prepared, not all of them. There is, of course, an entire diagram of how to fully implement this law and what is most important and how important this law is and how important it is for this government to be implemented and how important it is to change the work of inspection, and to increase the funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the coming period, as we are, of course, also working to provide donor funds for some of the larger elements, such as. Construction of an E-Inspector, i.e. Information system. So there's no doubt that law enforcement doesn't happen on its own. We'll have to be dedicated to him, we'll have to prioritize him, we'll have to invest in it, but the plan is here, and the will is there. As for Article 22, I suggest we see your amendments. We stand behind the fact that in this form he does not endanger the constitutional rights of citizens, and we are always open to a good proposal, if you think there is any better option. As it stands, I wouldn't be going into the discussion right now about the details, but we can talk about it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24392	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24393	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, honourable fellow Members of the People, has said a lot in the afternoon. What I want to underline is some data that is important to the citizens who are watching this transmission. The Republic of Serbia currently has 36 different inspections, co-ordinated in 12 ministries. In addition, we have a communal inspection at the local level and a bunch of other administrations that are on the republican level, which are all being monitored locally. The Republic's inspection carries out more than 1,000 laws, different regulations, and what we all notice in this debate is that there is a serious problem, first of all, that the regulated states have up to 12 or 15 inspection services, and here, you and the citizens can hear that we have 36. Now, how do Serbian citizens view these inspections? It's a key thing. What image does the work of these inspections leave in the people to whom this work applies? We all know -- very bad. The businessmen and the citizens when a certain inspection comes to them, they see it all as one kind of, let's say, God's punishment, to be mild, or some sort of exorcising beating that serves to charge first of all. The average sentence written in the economy in 2014 was over 800 euros in dinar equivalent. This data shows everything, I have to say, the error of this system of ours and shows how many inspection services in Serbia are doing wrong, because when they come to a particular company, they just look at how to write a sentence, instead of, first of all, to try and make certain businessmen, first of all, it applies to a small economy, we educate them in what way they can, even though they make a certain mistake, which is not out of intent, but out of neglect, that people are educated and that they are helped not to repeat these mistakes. So it's more or less in all developed countries, but unfortunately, we have such an inheritance. We also had sanctions, wars, and everything else, and that left the consequences of these inspection services, and that left the consequences of the government's work in general. I am pleased and, of course, me and New Serbia's Parliament Club will support this law, which should have followed earlier. But what I'm asking you, Madam Minister, we have different problems on the ground. Here, I come from our beautiful forest, with the headquarters of the forest district in Kragujevac, where various inspectors sitting on the republican level and now we have, for example, Inspect work. At this moment, you have 11 inspectors working in Kragujevac who are sitting for the entire forest district, from Arandevec, Topola, Rače and all other municipalities, and they are all from Kragujevac and are all resident in Kragujevac. Now we have a practical problem where you have a tender on a republican level for the maintenance of their vehicles or I don't know the fuel, and these people can't get into any other municipality at all, except to stop and take the bus or possibly send us from other municipal services to send them a vehicle to carry out any kind of control. I ask you, and when serious reform of these inspection services is done, to see this territorial representation, that even smaller municipalities belonging to certain districts have certain types of inspections that are very important for the functioning and operation of both these municipalities and citizens living there. This is just one little example that shows that now a particular vehicle tender is falling on a republican level and these people are completely, to say, dead in Kragujevac himself, cut off, and what are we going to do now in Topoli, in Arangelovac, and we need an inspector? On the other hand, you have a bunch of problems that follow different inspection services, and in particular, I must say, certain overlaps between the competences of certain inspection services, and here we have major problems. What is the problem and the countries of Serbia is that our GDP in 2014 was estimated to be slightly above 33 billion euros, with about 30% to 35% of GDP in the grey economy. When we talk about the need for the work of inspection services to be part of that grey economy, let me say, to introduce it into normal flows, how if we don't have a clear and defined coordination of all these inspections, all of these powers, we also have district chiefs who have these inspections sitting around. They're one kind of, let's say, some middle-level government, but without clear jurisdiction and all together, it's really causing us big problems. Dear Mrs Udovicki, I sincerely ask you, when this law is passed, other fellow MPs have made serious remarks and amendments, that these things are no longer repeated and that we have a steady deployment of inspection services at the level of all Serbia. Here, I'd like to thank you very much. I hope that this law will come to life and that the citizens of Serbia will have a serious improvement from this law, both citizens and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24394	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24395	Thank you, Mr. Becic. Dear Minister, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, as the former speaker, a colleague from New Serbia, has said, has said a lot in the debate so far. Of course, the Law on State Administration, which was adopted in 1992 and which regulates a very important issue, a very important and important area that we are talking about today, the area of inspection and inspection supervision, is also obsolete, is also dysfunctional. He certainly did realize the objectives of the moment when he was adopted, the goals they wanted to achieve at the time when he was adopted, but also certainly can't affect the realisation of some of the goals that they want to achieve today. What's the actual state of affairs when it comes to inspections, inspections? Some data colleagues have already spoken about. It is true that in Serbia today there are 39, precise, inspections, sorted into 12 resolute ministries of the RS government. In addition, we have local, regional, thousands of sublegal acts and regulations that in a certain way regulate the work of inspections and inspection controls. What should also be pointed out, unfortunately, so far there has been no co-operation, no coordination, I will be intertwined in the area and in the affairs, inspections are very common, long-term, burdened by economic operators and such inspection supervision, of course, cannot be effective and cannot give the desired results. Of course it is very important to finally introduce order when it comes to this area, when it comes to the work of inspections and when it comes to the inspection itself. True, numerous studies have been done many years ago. I'm not going to speak individually about what all citizens and businesses have been saying about the work of inspections, but it is true -- a number of research has been done a long time ago. What is very important for today's debate, I think, is that both citizens and businesses have an unequivocal and clear view, which is that there is a need for reform of the work of inspection and inspection supervision in Serbia and that one roof, one system law, should be adopted, which will regulate the work of all inspections in Serbia. One of the key priorities and objectives of the RS government is to build, strengthen and strengthen institutions that will enable and ensure the rule of law, through which it creates a more favourable business environment, a more favourable business environment. This, of course, needs to enable better investment and, of course, will affect the reduction of unemployment. The arrangement of this, as I said, very important and important areas, the improvement of the work of inspections and inspection supervision through the adoption of the legislative proposal we are talking about today will have an important impact on the realization of a very important objective and the priorities of the Government of RS. I would like to say that in front of us today is, above all, a modern law that defines and understands the work of inspection and inspection, the law in which they are, I would say, implemented modern standards. The reforms of inspection supervision will certainly have a social and economic and legal impact. We are convinced, as a Parliament club, that the adoption of this legislative proposal will allow the system-based methodology of authority, accountability, obligation, coordination, but also the rational use of available inspections in Serbia today, to allow for the improvement of the work of inspections and inspection supervision and to raise to one higher level and professional but also ethical standards of inspectors with one clear goal, i.e. with several clear objectives, which is to improve the business environment and business environment in Serbia, to allow greater respect of the rules, by businesses, to enable greater and better protection and citizens and companies and to reduce the administrative and financial burdens they have, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are somehow the most exposed to administrative and financial pressure. We believe that the greatest benefit from the application of this law is about to have an economy. For us, it is essential that this legislative proposal goes in the direction of curbing the reduction of the grey economy in Serbia. As stated, it will no longer be possible to transfer responsibility from one inspection to another, from one inspection to the jurisdiction of another inspection, especially when it comes to unregistered entities. If it is not the jurisdiction of one inspection, it is obliged to learn about it as an inspection of whose jurisdiction and responsibility it is. I said, the percentage of gray economy today is in Serbia, unfortunately, huge. Some of the statistics I've come up with, I don't know how accurate they are, say Serbia loses 350m euros in budget revenues annually because of the grey economy. Translated into, let's say, pensions, that's 13 pensions, one monthly pension for all pensioners in Serbia. That is why we must all act together and work to combat the grey economy in Serbia, not to punish those who operate in accordance with the regulations, in accordance with the law, which reconcile taxes and contributions, and in this way pour huge funds into the RS budget, and favour those who are at this time in this so-called. The gray zone. You know how, when a story is told in Serbia, some unwritten rules, inspections come unannounced, mostly or often with the same operators in Serbia, I don't want to believe that they want to send some kind of message, and inspections mainly come with the goal of finding something and that the penalties of a economic operator that is subject to inspection. With this law, what is also important, the inspection is just being given a mandate to act preventively, to act proactively in preventing law violations. This law introduces one principle aimed at improving the business of an economic operator in accordance with current, existing laws and regulations. So, to pre-warn what may happen, that the economic operators, which will be subject to inspection, are more willing to welcome the inspections themselves. So support the entrepreneurial spirit, not just punish, preventative and educational, which is very important, not just sanction. Those who do well, who operate in accordance with existing laws, support regulations to do business and work even better. Those who do unregulated business, unregistered entities, of course, sanction, punish, prevent them from operating and operating in Serbia, because in this way they are sent, I would say one clear message, one clear signal to all potential investors who would come to Serbia – that anyone who wants to come to Serbia, that works in Serbia in accordance with existing regulations and laws, is of course welcome. It has already been said, a risk assessment will be carried out by companies and activities based on which surveillance plans will be made in all areas. Inspectors will use a single inspection information system and a coordination body will be formed. You said the time period in which the coordination body would be formed. Forming a coordinating body is very important, exactly what I'm talking about, there's no transfer of responsibility. There will be, therefore, an integrated inspection plan that will have to gather everything and will have to deal with concrete things to reach an agreement. This prevents, in our opinion, the arbitrary interpretation of individual inspectors, it narrows down space and for some abuses, going towards curbing the gray economy but what is even more important increases the public in the work. Transparency and the greater public in the work of inspection is of the utmost importance and importance and it is said by economic operators. Economic operators, speaking of research, say in one of the studies that they want to operate in accordance with regulations, that they want to operate in accordance with existing laws, legal acts but that very often they are not able to reach these regulations and acts and that they are not able to, that they do not have access to the procedures under which inspection supervision is carried out. This is particularly expressed in entrepreneurs in both micro and small societies, which account for around 98.99% of businesses and are indeed the backbone of employment in Serbia at the moment. What is achieved and what does more transparency mean? Public advertising of existing regulations, surveillance plans, control lists, educational, preventive, professional action and all of this certainly wants to enable greater security and greater certainty and greater predictability when talking about economic operators that will be subject to inspection during an unscheduled period. What I also want to say, when it comes to this legislative proposal, he was certainly saying, he is certainly an example of a good practice when it comes to the methodology itself, the way that this quality legal framework happened. So there was an open public debate, an open dialogue between the public and private sectors, all those who are interested in the right and the right way to settle this very important and important issue, and there was a quality system legal framework that is both modern and modern and efficient, but as I said reformally. The regulation of this issue certainly aims to ensure business in Serbia in accordance with the rules, to enable an effective fight against corruption, regulatory policy will be strengthened, as inspections take an important place in ensuring compliance with the rules in various areas of social life. And what is it that, and with that I want to finish, what is it that is concretely achieved by this legal proposal? Therefore, clear rules, surveillance procedures, determining the authority of inspectors on the one hand and clearly defined obligations of economic operators to be subject to inspection supervision on the other hand and, of course, narrows down the area for corruption and any kind of abuse. Of course, the SPS Parliament Club in voting day wants to support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24396	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has a National MP Jovan Markovic, not in the hall, MP Ivana Stojiljkovic is also not in the hall, MP Balša Bozovic is not in the hall, MP Mirjana Dragas. Here you go, Mrs. Dragash.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24397	He's in the O.R., thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Minister, gentlemen of Parliament, is before us, as we have heard in today's debate, a whole new comprehensive law that will first, unitedly, determine the way, organisation and rules of inspection for all or almost all inspections, provide conditions for their co-operation, coordination, exchange of information and so forth. When we say that this bill provides all of this, then we actually discover each other's medals, that today's inspection services are independent by acting for themselves. Research by NADED and International Labour Organizations has shown us that each of our ministries has its own institutions that monitor the legality of work in its field, that it has 39 inspections, that they work for themselves, organise surveillance, monitor work, each one goes to the field, often even give conflicting opinions. So, according to the findings of this survey that occurred in the previous period of these inspections, it is said that over a thousand laws, regulations, regulations and other sublaws are being followed, which, of course, made it very difficult and burdensome to work, burdened the efficiency of the total of these services. Therefore, they also sense their indignity, in practice there is contradiction, there is often a conflict of legal norms, their interpretations, and all of this creates one bad legal framework, as well as business uncertainty which, of course, causes unnecessary costs. It is bad and it is unsustainable. It must also be said that the basis for the work of inspections makes the State Administration Act, which was passed since 1992, that many solutions were then in line with practice, but that so far they have been overcome in view of different economic financial, social and political circumstances. To pass the State Administration Act of 2005, then amended in 2007 and 2010, he created the conditions to propose this special inspection law. This law creates a space for more orderly inspection supervision, a better business environment, the safety of business entities, a certain business environment and relations in it. That's why we're doing the inspections properly. This is also important for the overall arrangement of our business mile, because as the data put it, about 30% of our economy is now in the gray zone, which loses huge three billion euros annually. The aim is to introduce the economy into legal frameworks, achieve new budget filling, but also create better and clearer working conditions, business law and employment. This will free up competitiveness, create new businesses, the arrival of new investors, which is particularly important for our economy and the state. The new law stipulates that it will affect the reduction of illegal sales of goods, the illegal provision of services, the increased payment of taxes and contributions, the untrue display of the business situation. An economic operator, an employer, must not experience the state as a distraction, as a gourmet who only disturbs and punishes, but as an associate who creates a positive business environment that monitors work, directs and helps. Of course, gray or black economies will always be, there is one in the world, there is one in the EU, but it must be reduced to the least possible frameworks. The inspections must be arranged, uniquely organised, efficient and therefore they will provide one such legal framework. This roof law, which today is ahead of us, is about to provide conditions for such operation. What is important and what is certainly good is the establishment of a co-ordination committee which is provided for by this law and which will provide the necessary professional and administrative services and services for the operation of inspections. In inspection supervision, the accent should be on prevention, education, public work, and this means that inspection surveillance is in future planned, announced, programmed and coordinated. He must not, as it has been until now, be a factor of surprise, to go looking for a mistake that will necessarily end with punishment. I must point out and praise the new intensities of this law where the principle of prevention, proportionality, public, independence, the principle of truth will be respected and mutual trust will be developed between economic operators and the state. The state of our inspections, as well as the conditions in which they work, produced a series of negative consequences and a total of bad perception and resistance. No wonder, because our country is in the process of changing the state system, introducing private ownership where both the position and the capital and the employer are changed, but also the position of workers, and therefore the inspection services. There should be sufficient political wisdom and courage with clear goals to make the state reorganisation real, positive and fundamental changes to the state administration, and this law provides and aims at making it the most sensitive service to the inspection, which ultimately depends on the realisation of the policy adopted by this Parliament. It's just through the work of the inspection that you can see if the state is well organized. There are many problems here today, which has been said a lot, because new relations are not sufficiently regulated, there is a strong interest in private, often wild capital, there is indiscipline and responsibility towards the state in transition. The impact of politics is, of course, present here, and that is why this law should in any case be given full support and conditions for it to be in practice and realised and the Socialist Party of Serbia will, in this direction, advocate and vote for this law. Many problems in practice are known today. Working on black, tax and contributions are not paid, for example, workers are not reported largely, there is no protection at work, there is a lack of respect for the length of working time, there are blackmail and mobbing, there is no payout and these phenomena are also present in state enterprises, in private and in transition. These are just phenomena that are recorded, which are present and that we know about in the field of working relations, and let's say I look back now, and they have to be regulated in terms of respecting work, respecting the limitations of working time, respecting labour rights, that work and worker are not harm and expense, but that they are the creators of new capital. In such one mile, there will also be better and more efficient work of businesses, greater and more express satisfaction for all employees and workers, and at the same time there will be a more efficient presence of the inspection services themselves in this region of work. When it comes to this, I refer to it as an example, and when it is achieved in terms of its full efficiency and quality, it will certainly have positive effects on all other examples of the work of inspection services, both in the field of health care, social protection, food protection, protection in the area of agriculture, environmental protection and working environments, etc., etc. Then we'll have a better and more satisfying space. However, I must stress that this is certainly an important law, that this is a law that will provide conditions in which the overall work of these services will be brought to a better level and to a better position. They must also be adequately rewarded so that their speciality and their independence can be properly realised, but neither are these processes completed until the end. In the area or in the area of labour change, labour relations and, in general, social changes that are happening everywhere in the world, we see that these are all large processes that are going on and that we have to adapt to. So again when it comes to labour and labour relations, I will only list some newspapers that we are present on a daily basis, which is that modern new challenges, for example, are at work, because there is the growth of new technologies, scientific achievements, new processes, the application of new chemical substances, new challenges and new risks in the course of work, technological innovations, the application of dangerous substances, fragmentation of labour markets, growing insecurity at work, illegal working relationships, the work of children and women in the fields and at a time when it is not allowed by law, the engagement of manufacturers in a whole new way, the appearance of pseudo-employment, the emergence of new demographic conditions and factors, the phenomenon that more and more older people are present in the process of work. It is also present to develop cross-border work, work abroad, change in governance, flexible working hours, etc. All of this creates a new mile for which we have to find new solutions daily to enable on one side of the country those miles that are necessary for businesses to work, to be efficient, to be quality and within the frameworks of legality, and on the other hand, what I particularly plead, which I particularly draw attention to, that the work and the worker in this work process must be adequately protected. So science, laws and inspections are certainly at work in this and future time and efficiency in their terms must be maximumly enforceable. A man must remain at the heart of the public process and our overall attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24398	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24399	I thank the chairman. Respected representatives of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, it is no doubt that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, such as our authorised representative, distinguished counterpart Suzanne Spasojevic, will support this bill's proposal and vote for the same day. I think it would be correct, given today's discussions, to point out some facts that can be difficult to doubt. First of all, the fact that he's the proponent himself, so that's what you've just predicted. It points to the non-compliance of certain laws in relation to the proposed text of the law. I remind you that it is precisely in this bill that one of the provisions that is called the alignment of specific laws is contained, or better to say compliance with a special law or laws through coordination inspection supervision. In this direction, certain steps have already been taken in such a way that the draft law on general administrative procedure is in the process, and I would plead and appeal on behalf of us from the SPS parliamentary group to do the same with the provisions of the Law on Administrative Disputes. Why? Because an administrative dispute can be initiated against the solution made in the inspection procedure, as a second-degree solution. Unfortunately, today, the administrative court, which is in charge of resolving such issues, is the conduct of administrative lawsuits overcrowded with cases with close to 100,000 cases. The question arises – how, then, will the dissatisfied party in the inspection supervision process to whom the appeal has been refused, to exercise his right and his interest, but through the administrative court? The question is, when? The administrative court may bring a judgment of the minority within two to three years. In this way, it also violates the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. So the party's interest in that direction won't be satisfied at all. Also, for objectivity in access to this law and analysis of this law, I must draw attention to some of our fellow Members, MPs, who pointed to the alleged violation of Article 40. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, referring to Article 22. A bill that suggests insight into living space. I must immediately draw attention to the fact that there is no constitutional breach in this direction because the Constitution is also regulated that the search of the apartment and entry into the living rooms can be carried out solely on the basis of a court order. However, another question is being raised here, and we in the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will insist on this issue in some further steps related to the future legislative process in order to further accelerate the quality of this law and in what way. First of all, it should be borne in mind that despite the fact that the inspection services address the court with a proposal for the court to issue a solution, that is to say, a solution that will allow the search of premises in the apartment, that such provision is not contained in the provisions of the Law on Courts. So, we now establish this law one jurisdiction of the court that we did not establish by law on courts. For the first time, the courts are in a position to resolve in their jurisdiction the proposals of the inspection services to make decisions on entering the apartment in order to implement those measures prescribed in the jurisdiction of the inspection services. That's the kind of thing that the court has never had before. On the other hand, such a thing systematized in the provisions of the Law on the Regulation of Courts, a law which deals exclusively with judicial jurisdiction. Whether it will be suspected that in this way the executive authority is involved in the judiciary as an open question, and that question must be given in some particular time, because in no way should the executive rule be allowed to disrupt what means the independence of the judiciary as one of the pillars of the government of each state, including the state of Serbia, by adopting this law. Therefore, the proposer will also need to find fair and correct solutions, which must in any case be consistent with the Constitution, in this part, if not otherwise, in the follow-up, because the legislative process is an evolutionary process. What I want to underline here on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group is the fact how to further facilitate the implementation of certain measures and activities in this law. There are provisions relating to enforcement or enforcement procedures. It is not disputed that enforcement is carried out by the competent authorities of the state administration, but it is disputed whether these competent authorities of the state administration may, with the necessary degree of effectiveness, carry out these enforcement procedures in order to achieve the ultimate objective of inspection activities, i.e. inspection procedures. There is no doubt that we will have a lot of work to do in this direction, and it is doubtless that the area is now not well defined enough because the existing executive bodies in the units of local self-government, cities and municipalities are not effective enough in the executive procedures. Therefore, we in the SPS parliamentary group believe that this problem may be addressed by analogous application or by appropriate application of the provisions of the law on enforcement and security, where private perpetrators can also be engaged. If we are already calling on the courts to find solutions based on which we will enter the premises as inspectors, then we can also refer to the provisions of the law on enforcement and security and ask for more effective implementation in the affairs of inspection oversight. Finally, what the Socialists consider to be very important is that as soon as possible, the more urgent the distribution of competences between republican inspections and local inspections, i.e. the inspection of cities and municipalities. Why are we pointing to this? Fully right, given that there is overlapping competence, given that there are also republican environmental inspectors and local environmental inspectors and republican environmental inspectors for tourism and local tourism inspectors. Often these responsibilities overlap, and in this way an absurd situation arises, that we have double access to inspection controls. What's most important right now is that as soon as possible a legal mechanism is found to be filled with the professional staff of that inspection service where this is not possible. Why isn't it possible? Because the Budgetary System Act is in force. Because the Employment Restriction Regulation is in force. Because simply local self-government, where necessary, is not possible for professional staff to increase the capacity of inspection services by adequate and quality personal solutions. That's what the Socialists insist on, and I think it's a good way to come up with the right solutions. Of course, once again, these are only very well-intentioned suggestions to the promoter, because the SPS parliamentary group unreservedly supports this law because it is the first attempt at a comprehensive reform of inspections and inspection supervision. That's why we're voting for the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24400	The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24401	The Honorable Chairman, representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues, today we have a very important law, an affirmative and modern law that will first and foremost facilitate the work of all the inspection bodies and our inspectors to restore the dignity that has been quite dissipated to them in the previous period. On the other hand, what's good, very good at this law, is that this law will make it very much easier for our businesses to function, or work. It is commendable that inspectors through this law will not only go into inspection unannounced, but will leave one time space for the business to prepare the documentation and go to so-called. the announced control. This aims to achieve that one businessman absolutely shows all his business in the right light. If we want to find a mistake, we will always find it, but by this law we wanted to achieve one preventive work, make it easier for the businessmen to work and act preventively, that through a risk assessment when it comes to business we simply assess whether supervision in a facility takes two times a year, once a year, or, let's say, once in three years. So there are certainly areas, such as health, nutrition, agriculture, veterinary, where surveillance is certainly necessary and should be common. However, if we carefully refer to all those European norms that our country must agree on because of EU accession, to bring the laws and standards into line, I think that, if they are respected, we will make it important to facilitate the work of our economy as well as to our inspectors. Because when we carefully set some objectives and risk assessments, then we will be absolutely clear what the inspector expects of us, what is it that the inspector controls and what the businessman can expect in one inspection, whether it is a sanitary inspector, a agricultural, veterinary, labour inspection, a market inspection, a tourist inspection. So if we have clear standards, then we know what we need to do as a businessman and we simply know what we can expect from an announced inspection surveillance. However, there are also situations where emergency inspection controls are needed, which are inspection surveillance on application or by any entity or citizen or when we have knowledge that there is a violation of the law. Of course, such inspection controls were not then announced. I'd like to commend Article 22 where, with the court's permission, we can also conduct inspection in the living room. In my previous practice, and for almost 20 years I have been in direct collaboration with inspectors, it may occur that you have unregistered production of food products in the living room or that you have unregistered health care. It was also dental work, and this is what we are significantly destroying the health of our citizens. Therefore, we must also take care of such things, and I think it is very good in this law which simply regulates that aspect. What is very important, and so far has not been regulated by law, it is practically an unregistered producer or unregistered activity. You know, when something is unregistered, it's nothing, so it's nobody's jurisdiction and they're practically handcuffed to inspectors because you can't act legally and you have one unfair competition. Our private individuals, who were doing their job correctly, correctly registering their companies, paying their taxes correctly, rightly rebelled because there was unfair competition that could have made illegal profits, damaged the state, destroyed the health of citizens, and did not suffer the consequences. This law regulates it. What's very important is that we try to reduce the overlap of jurisdiction. We certainly won't be able to avoid some of the powers of some inspections overlapping, but the laws so far have been truly disastrous. I can give you an example. In one of the life-saving facilities, one day you can get both agricultural and veterinary and sanitary inspections and all of them can sample just one product, say, egg pasta and send it to three different laboratories and that the businessman has such an obligation to pay for laboratory analysis, because all three inspections have the full right to sample that product. Agricultural – because it is a cereal product, a veterinary product – because we have animal origin, which is eggs, and sanitary – because of packaging or additives. Therefore, we must make sure that, even when we write a sublegal act, that it is taken into consideration. I think this law is very good. He has collected all aspects that simply one law should have and I think he will restore dignity to the inspectors, modernise our inspection services to carry out their work effectively, and on the other hand, to disburse the businessmen that they too can do their job properly. The SNS parliamentary group will vote for this law anyway, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24402	The word has been made by MP Alexander Peranovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24403	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen of the ministry, fellow MPs, we have before us today a law that is indeed a modern and reform law. I can freely say that for the first time, the state of Serbia is given one such law and we have not had a chance to discuss such a law for many years. What's most important about this law is its application. It is that we in Serbia have so far had one unfair competition, that we have both registered and unregistered businessmen. That's the biggest problem. The grey economy is something that was in the previous period and how it brought down our country's economy. Today, we could hear from my previous colleagues what a loss it is in the Republic's budgets for and or because of the grey economy – over three billion euros. Competition is no problem to anyone, but when it's real and when everyone has equal chances. That is why the inspection control law allows all economic operators to have one straight or the same race. The fundamental change in this law is the work of all inspections. This law also changes the ratio of inspection, economy and citizens. We can freely say that by adopting this law, both businessmen and citizens and inspectors are satisfied. So far, there has been a bad economic environment in our country, from now on, we believe that through the work of all inspections, and colleagues have said that they were companies either registered or unregistered in housing units, which also destroys both the power of one state and one economy. I believe that the adoption of this law will bring about a favourable economic environment, where the inspection will have, as we have heard or as it stands in the law, three days of notice. As a doctor, I can say that what this law is about is prevention. So we have to allow one economic operator to operate in accordance with the law, not just punishment, which in the previous period has not produced results. What is most important – when we create conditions and adopt laws that are truly reformal, European, modeled by modern states, we will create an environment for the arrival of investments and then, in one way, make the economy and all our subjects in the country more quality. Many factors participated in the drafting of this law. It wasn't done for no reason like this. I will conclude – the most important thing about this law is that it is well implemented, its application, and that we no longer have a situation for an unregistered store or a company to pay the fine of five thousand, and someone who is registered has a small penalty and pays 20 or 30 or maybe 50 grand. That's what we need to get in the way and level the terms. In this way, we will raise the level and quality of life in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24404	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24405	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us today of the law on inspection supervision which represents and how a huge step forward, because after a little over two decades of implementation of the Law on State Administration, it turned out in fact that neither the social, financial and economic conditions nor the political conditions correspond to the further application of this law. This government, as a responsible government and the competent Ministry of Local Self-Government and State Administration, in whose jurisdiction this law is, is in one fundamental, systematic, comprehensive way, came to address this problem and today lies just before us a reform law, which is in line with modern inspection supervision. What I particularly want to praise, and how important it is for the adoption of one law and for the assessment of its quality or not the quality, is the active participation of all those participants who were interested in the adoption of this law. So, apart from the state administration active in the adoption of this law, both inspection and supervised entities, i.e. economic operators and NGOs, have been participated. What certainly contributes to the reform character of this law, and what preceded its adoption and its today's qualification as reform and as a significant step towards the regulation of this area, is one detailed analysis that was carried out before the adoption of this law. Many objections were made to supervised entities or economic operators during the debate and the debate on the adoption of this law. Of these remarks, the largest number has been adopted and implemented in this law. Of course, there were objections to those who carried out surveillance, which are inspectors. First of all, these are objections concerning the methodology of their conduct, unclear powers, vague responsibilities of the participants in inspection supervision, coordination. Also, these observations were adopted and all together represented by a modern, efficient law whose implementation should, above all, contribute to the development of the market economy for which SNS is certainly seeking, because the developed market economy and developed economy are in fact the basis of each country. As far as the papers provided for by this law are concerned, this is the difference between the previous law focusing on inspectors and sanctions. In the focus of this law is not the inspector and the sanctions, the focus of this law is both the inspector and the supervised entity, but of course a series of those preventive measures. Prevention measures have a meaning precisely from the point of view that the inspection should be a support, not someone who intimidates and scares economic operators, support of a supervised entity, or an economic operator in the proper application of the law. The prevention is also reflected in the need for economic operators to be able to make all those acts available, all those legal regulations, sublegal acts, all those opinions, all those recommendations that indicate that in concrete cases they will operate absolutely in accordance with the law. Also, the great importance of this preventive function, which is almost inextricably linked to the public's work, because the prevention and the public of work, somewhere in this law, are closely linked and this is also the publication of an inspection plan, will not happen unannounced in the economic operator's control, it will not happen that it does not know how long this control will take and, of course, it is very important to publish the control lists. Why it is important to publish the checklist because, on the basis of the checklist, economic operators themselves can carry out self-evaluation of their dealings with legal regulations. In this regard, and this is also how important support is and we consider this law significant from an economic aspect as well. The SNS also considers it important from the aspect of the arrival of new investors, but also from the aspect of changes in awareness and inspection and supervised entities and the creation of a single-party relationship for a better and healthier economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24406	The word has been made by the People's MP Adrian Anastasov.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24407	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia. Before us today is a very important law, a bill of inspection. Before I begin my speech, I would like to commend the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government on the adoption of such a fundamental and reform law, because in the Republic of Serbia, this area has not been best arranged, and indeed, the area of inspection supervision is of great importance to the economy, public administration and the welfare of all citizens. The analysis shows that the matter of certain areas of inspection is subject to the regulation of over a thousand laws, regulations, regulations and other sublaws. This shows us that there is contradiction in the legal order of disorder, reorganization of the inspection matter. A huge number of sectoral regulations and all that has been done in the area of inspection supervision is in some way an attempt to inspect, in practice, solve and bridge the problem of not passing such an important system law. The main reason for the adoption of this law is to regulate the methodology, conduct in inspection, determine the powers and obligations of the participants in inspection control, as well as to coordinate the work of inspection and better use of inspection resources. The fight against the grey economy, the introduction of financial discipline and the creation of a positive business environment is one of the main objectives of the government's work and this ministry. All this will allow normal work for all economic operators, for all those who regularly settle taxes and other obligations towards the state. Where I can rely on a colleague who has previously spoken is a system of preventive action in the area of inspection, because due to insufficiently planned preventive activities, the inspection is placed in a position to react only after some harmful consequence arises and does some kind of resolution and punishment, i.e. the initiation of punishment, instead of the inspection acting in advance and preventing the possibility of adverse consequences. Article 13 of this Law explains in detail how and how it will act preventively and how it will be implemented, and I welcome how it is explained, how preventive action will work. What often occurs at the restaurant, which about all MPs have spoken about, is that businesses often complain about the inspection procedure. They complain that inspections act inappropriately, unprofessionally, arrogantly, very often looking for some kind of service or I can even say bribes, and that they look at some irregularity and illegality. It's a very common phenomenon in local self-government, and that's the problem we have to get in the way, which we have to solve, because the law has to be the same for everyone. Citizens have to report any irregularities in the work of inspections, any illegality, and this law right now solves it in a way that everyone who participates in inspection, everyone who, the economic operators in the inspection process, will be able to properly inform themselves how and where to report irregularities and illegalities in the inspection process, because so far, economic operators, I know an example from the niche, I do not say that they are all such, but there are inspectors, there are inspections that in this way inappropriately and incorrectly, unprofessionally operate, but simply, economic operators of fear, retribution, and they were not able to report this irregularity in the right way. On the other hand, I have to say that, as we require inspection to do proper and professional work, to do their job, to respect certain standards, we need to improve the state of inspection, we need to technically equip them, we need to increase capacities, we need to improve the overall state of inspection in all areas and local self-government and state administration. What everyone has mentioned and what is positive, why so many experts speak positively about this law, is that a large number of participants participated in the design and analysis of this law, so USAID made its comment in the public debate and was said to be a very significant feature that accompanied this public debate, predominantly positive attitude, primarily experts in the field of inspection and regulatory reform and representatives of the economy and business associations, because this law contains, has excellent content, introduces modern inspection standards, modernises and standardises inspection supervision in preventing and combating the gray economy. As far as inspection is concerned, they have accepted differently the adoption of this law from some positive attitude and a positive mood towards the adoption of these standards and these reforms, we have a neutral attitude or even an attempt to inspect some of the norms to exempt some parts of some of the inspections or even from all of the new law's norms. What will be extremely important in the coming period, USAID stresses that it will be of great importance, is information and education and inspectors and businessmen, transfer of good practice, equalisation and publication and support for the application of the new law and the establishment of effective and efficient performance of the tasks of the co-ordination commission. Also on the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government site, it is clear that the opinion, the comments of all on these laws, is clear. I will also highlight the advice of foreign investors who welcomed and supported the adoption of this law as an extremely important regulation. The hope is expressed that this law will address the main problem of low level of coordination between competent authorities, which would introduce a functional coordination system, solve the problem of the absence of an inspection plan and the overlapping of the jurisdiction of inspections. Finally, I want to repeat Minister Kori Udovici's words that the functioning and application of this law will not be perfect in the coming years, but in any case it will significantly change the economic environment and responsibility in the functioning of the public administration and that is one of the objectives of this essential law. In voting day I will certainly give my vote and support this law. I expect the other MPs to do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24408	The People's Messenger Nevenka Milosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24409	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia who are monitoring today's work is today a system-based, unique law that regulates a particularly important area, the area of inspection supervision. He is simply offering the concept today, and I must point out that so far, such reform attempts or solutions to regulate inspection surveillance have not been done, and we all know the importance of this area for all our citizens, for the economy, for the public administration. We've heard a lot of arguments in favor of this law. A serious, fundamental public debate took place in which all interested parties took part. Six round tables were also held in this public debate, and a number of these remarks and suggestions could be proposed or suggested by electronic means, and a working group formed under this law was adopted and adopted. So it was concluded that, as a solution to the existing situation in practice, it would be just the passing of one of these laws. Simply, the current solutions that are located and operating in practice are also obsolete are not functional, and they have been made in some other circumstances and do not meet the modern conditions and modern role of inspection today. At this point, I'd like to draw attention to just some solutions that make me say that in fact this law is a whole new concept. First of all, it's a new role and a new understanding of inspection surveillance. We've heard that a few times, and that's the point. It is not potential that the inspection causes fear, that it causes repressive measures and penalties, but vice versa, is potentiated on another part of the inspection, which is prevention. Prevention activities are certainly the most effective activities. We will also prevent mistrust, and we will develop a relationship of trust between inspection, business and public administration and thus build a relationship of support for legal business. Furthermore, compared with preventive activities, it is certainly necessary to bring about the ranking of economic operators according to the risks they can carry out and the adverse consequences they can carry out. These risks are currently being put into the inspection plan and on a regular basis, as well as the one that is an emergency and control plan. Of course, sometimes it can be done beyond that plan. The next thing I think is the public in the work of inspection. These are the information, the notification of the work of inspection surveillance, and all other information and, I would say, the role of inspections both in the advisory role and in the professional role of our business entities. What has not been a practice so far, which will go beyond this law, is better coordination and co-operation between different inspections. It is particularly important that the Government will form a co-ordination body, i.e. a co-ordination commission. In order for this cooperation and coordination to really be better, it is good that we will have a single electronic system, a unique inspection and information system, where different inspections will be able to exchange various documents and where we will have a more complete insight into their work. The next new solution is the clear authority of the inspection to curb the operation of unregistered entities, which is so-called. The gray economy. Of course, we're going to have this legal business, loyal to competition, against the so-called. The gray economy. Basically, the goal is that all subjects realize that it is good and positive and for them to legally operate and to move from that gray zone to the white zone as soon as possible. Of course, the inspection cannot play the role of the police, but it is certainly also important that the co-operation between the inspection and the police, especially in that area when the gray economy goes to the black economy. It is very important that this law will have transparency and we will have equal treatment of inspection in similar or similar situations. This will lead to positive effects because economic operators that are supervised will have one security, which will mean a lot. This law also brings us many other changes, such as standardisation of the concepts, plans and inspection controls, so that we will have a number of types of inspection controls according to species, which are: regular, extraordinary, supplementary and control inspection, and according to the form of office and field inspection supervision. We know from practice how many problems there have been, how many burdens there have been both administrative and financial burdens, I would say, sometimes especially towards those micro and small economic operators, where they had to determine at least one employee who would communicate with the inspection. Many of these problems will be resolved by this law, so that this law is indeed systematic, bringing many changes in the area of surveillance and inspection, and as the Minister said at the outset, and I think that this is just the first step in the comprehensive reform of this important area. We're just about to have a lot of work to do in that sense. Finally, of course, along with the SNS MPs, in the voting day I will vote, and I will certainly support this inspection control bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24410	The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24411	The Honorable Minister, the President-in-Office, fellow MPs, should be adopted because the proposed law provides for a series of measures to improve the work of inspection and facilitate business for businessmen. The basic reason why inspectors and inspectors state in favour of the adoption of a system inspection law is the need for the existence of a law that would regulate the methodology of conduct in inspection control, and the powers and obligations of the inspectors of inspection, coordination of the work of inspections and better use of the resources of inspections. The need for the adoption of laws governing inspections is particularly sought by economic operators, since the situation in the area of inspection control, or its negative consequences, limits the competitiveness of the Republic of Serbia's economy on the international market and adversely affects business activities on the domestic market. The specific administrative and financial pressure of inspection supervision is suffered by micro and small business entities with only a few employees, who often have to determine at least one employee to communicate with inspections, which represents a significant cost to these entities. Estimates say public budgets lose about three billion euros annually because of the so-called. The gray economy. The fiscal strategy for 2014 with projections for 2015 and 2016 determines that the fiscal consolidation programme provides for further efforts to curb the grey economy, and that unless the expected effects of the field are achieved or if further deterioration occurs, losses on the side of revenues of more than 16 billion dinars per year are possible. The lack of coordination in the organisation of inspection surveillance significantly reduces the effectiveness of inspection surveillance and leads to unnecessary heavy burdens on supervised entities with regard to the frequency of controls and the subject-matter of controls. In the Republic of Serbia, there are 39 inspections in the 12 ministries portfolio, then inspections at the province and local level, and entities with public powers that exercise control and control over persons who carry out their activities by conducting inspection and other related supervision. The economic operators indicate that the competences of different inspections are often overlapped and controlled by the same things, the same documentation and the same items, often with an unequal or opposite interpretation of the rules. The inspection powers in the field of combating the activities carried out by unregistered or unregistered entities are not sufficiently clearly set up or a negative conflict of jurisdiction arises or an unjustified overload of human and material resources from only one or only a few inspections. In addition, economic operators also point out that they often do not have access to acts and procedures on the basis of which inspections are carried out by inspection supervision, that many regulations governing commercial operations are obsolete and unadjusted by the conditions of modern business. In this state of affairs, businessmen and entrepreneurs point out that the activities of the inspectors are not often arranged and clearly defined procedures and methods of conduct and that they do not know exactly what the subject of control is, what all inspectors will ask for and how long it will be kept in inspection, which all leads to business uncertainty. Economic operators still point out that inspection controls are unnecessaryly frequent and take too long. They often begin suddenly, without notice, so that temporary subjects have to unplannedly cancel jobs and obligations and deal with inspection controls. As a result, their business suffers damage and they lose credibility in customers, i.e. consumers and their business partners. Furthermore, business operators point out that inspectors are often not adequately trained and do not have adequate knowledge and skills, supervision performs and regulations interpreted formalistly and often in situations with a firm, bureaucratic and without understanding of the essence and meaning of the legal norm, the objective of inspection supervision, economic business and economic relations or with obvious orientation and the objective of seeking any error in business and conduct of the supervised entity. In doing so, it also makes interpretations that are contrary to official interpretations of the Ministry of Interior. Businesses also say that some inspectors act inappropriately, unprofessionally, and very arrogantly. One of the key problems is the widespread misrepresentation that the role of inspection is very strict control and punishment of economic operators, and that the vast majority of businessmen by definition in business is or tend to operate on the other side of the law and want to play law and damage and cheat the state. Success in the work of inspectors and inspectors is often wrongly measured in inspection and outside inspection by the number of requests to initiate the infringement procedure. All those shortcomings lead to a lack of understanding of the situation, rights, obligations, responsibilities and roles of inspectors and other participants in the inspection surveillance process. In line with the above-mentioned objectives that these laws achieve, the following are: a higher level of compliance between business and the handling of supervisory entities with law and other regulations, more effective public risk management and better protection of the law and other rules of protected goods, rights and interests, a reduction of the administrative burden of the economy and the establishment of this sustainable situation, an improvement of the free competition and the protection of competition, greater legal predictability, security, certainty, as well as a better location of inspection resources. An analysis of other options for solving the problem found that between alternatives the most reliable way to address the above mentioned law-making problems is to regulate inspection controls. Consequently, in order to improve and establish a stable and sustainable system in the area of inspection, which is similar to the market economy and contributes to business and investment, the private and public sector dialogue has led to the agreement that a system, modern, efficient and reform law on inspection is needed. The SNS will vote for the adoption of this law in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24412	The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24413	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister with Associates, distinguished fellow MPs, the law we are discussing today concerns the reform of the state administration, in particular its very important segment, which is inspection services. The very fact that the last special Act on Inspective Control was laid down by the State Administration Act of 2005 and that the long-standing resolutions of the 1992 Law on State Administration, which was abolished in everything except in the inspection work, are still in force, speaks of how much this law is necessary to our society. The situation in 36 inspections, deployed in 12 ministries, is best discussed by research conducted every year by NAED on more than a thousand economic operators. For example, a large number of objections from the surveyed subjects referred to the fact that the frequency and length of inspection supervision do not respond to the risk, so often people say – why they come to us all the time when we do business safely and legally. Economic operators also complain that inspection procedures and methodologies are insufficiently transparent, that the regulations are large and unclear, and professional assistance and advice on how to act are simply unreachable. The mediocre ethical, professional standards of inspectors, not to mention, is simply degutant. For example, they're looking for the slightest mistake to justify surveillance. All in all, 39% of economic operators evaluate the effectiveness and work of the inspection with an estimate of three, and even 20% are those who gave the inspection one. On the other hand, the state of inspection is very difficult. First of all, there are very few inspectors compared to the number of controls carried out. It sounds amazing, but true, two and more inspectors share one computer. Specialized software owns a small number of inspections, and vehicles that don't have inspections, we don't even talk. All of this, I dare say, the verse of this law must be regulated. I'll just mention a few of the benefits we'll have when this law comes into force. First of all, it's suppressing the gray economy. In this regard, the law prescribes that if an inspection finds an unregistered entity engaged in the work of the second inspection, it is required to notify the competent inspection without delay. Also, this law prescribes the ranking of supervised entities at the risk of committing a breach and, in relation to that, the obligation of the inspection authority to make surveillance priorities based on a risk assessment. It is also significant that the law introduces mandatory issuing of inspection orders. Also, the law prescribes the construction of inspection measures, i.e. the inspection measures shall be in proportion to the estimated risk, illegality and, above all, to the economic strength of the supervised entity. Finally, the law is important for the process of Eurointegration of our country, as inspection supervision is represented in all areas of negotiation. For example, in the environment, trade, areas of work, health, telecommunications, etc. Because of all these benefits for our society, the SNS parliamentary group will, of course, support this law. Once again, it is the partner law of the state, society and economy, as well as that it aims to protect the goods, rights and interests of all of us through ensuring order in the business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24414	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24415	Here, Serbian citizens and citizens have a special opportunity to commend a draft law by the New Party MPs and I am glad that the minister has returned, so she will be able to hear these praises and her associates. Of course, a law like this was necessary, that a lot of opportunities were missed to pass a good law on this subject, that the law that is now being implemented in 1992 was, in itself, the fact that it was meant to change in that period at least after 2000, but apparently, there were no conditions for it, and the conditions now seem to have been created. This law is presented that its objectives are to create, among other things, a more favourable business environment and of course, that one good coordination of work and inspection services, to increase the efficiency of the work of these services, to reduce the abuse of those services that are evident, and I think it is, I heard from the ruling majority MPs saying a lot of examples where there have been abuses, which have been on a personal corruption level, at a global corruption level, to add that there have been political abuses and various others and I can say that from two positions and as someone who has been in state bodies for a time, but more from the private position since 1986, and these have been phalanges and phalanges of legions and inspections passed through several businesses where I have been both co-owner and responsible person, and there have been everything and everything. It happens to me, God, and now some of my colleagues, and it certainly has to change and one good coordination of work and changes under this labour law and from inspection services will be very good, but it's not enough, as the minister knows, to change the entire business environment. Influenced by many other facts that the overall business environment in one country, it is not the subject of this law, but it should always be repeated that tax policy is necessary to be stimulating, that pay contributions are lower and more targeted where they should be, that general corruption, administration, and that is your portfolio, it is not your fault, but in the part of your portfolio it is very large, that it is an obstacle to investment, for normal business, that it is of course an outdated technology, small stimulating measures that are directed to that side, and on the other hand, I mean domestic economy, and on the other hand, politics, a subsidy that is absolutely unnecessary and completely wrongful policy of stimulation, development of the economy and industry, especially in Serbia. So these subsidies that are given to foreign investors in the workplace, that won't solve the problem. The policy has been conducted for five, six, seven years and has not increased the number of people employed in Serbia. On the contrary, it has reduced the number of employees and created a major problem with how to attract new serious investors, because we will never have enough money to employ 500-600,000 people through subsidies, which is only part of the total number of unemployed. But in this part of the inspection itself, I think this is significant progress and if the New Party's amendment is accepted, and I think they're imaginary, we're going to vote for this bill. We've given 22 amendments, nine of which is a question of lexiqueness, misusing some words, and I think you'll see it in our amendments, and that's one stylish remark. In the second part, we're looking at one place to put in the identity of the inspectors the number of IDs so that the identification is clear and I don't think it's an effort to introduce them. And one more thing to cut deadlines for law enforcement and increase penalties for those who break this law. I think a stricter policy, both in terms of deadlines and in terms of punishment, is necessary for the law to have its effect. I expect most of our amendments to be accepted, they have no political connotation, and we will vote for it. Finally, something that is written here in these documents, and we have been informed that MP Nedjo Jovanovic has changed the parliamentary club, as it says in this list of speakers...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24416	Time, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24417	... That he speaks for the SNS, so I'd like to get the information whether it's true or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24418	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Mr. Jovanovic, I presume.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24419	Judge, this isn't a replica... Professional deformity. It's not a replica to the finding, it's a replica to the provocation. It is a purely provocative address to the entire parliament using my name and name, of course, I do not want to consider it an abuse. My parliamentary group and my commitment have been present for 30 years, close to 30 years, and it will remain as it is. It will not change, and so will my political commitment and the definition of the parliamentary group towards the coalition and what this coalition represents in this assembly is also unchanged. So any reason for anything that could cause suspicion in the way it was launched by MP Zivkovic will not succeed, and Nedo Jovanovic remains where he was and will continue as he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24420	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word is Mr. Zivkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24421	So, without any intention of provoking any kind with a challenge, in the list of speakers that you've all got under number 13 written by Nedjo Jovanovic for SNS, here's everyone who has this list of speakers. So that's all I'm talking about, and the fact that Mr., a colleague, recognized himself and even put himself in the role of the defendant and addressed the court, that wasn't my intention in any way, and I think there's a lot of Freudian influences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24422	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Just an explanation, this is not an official document, a professional service error, one letter has been changed by mistake and I repeat once again is not an official document that can judge something. I also thank Mr Jovanovic for his understanding, before that, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24423	Here, I'm going to make a small contribution to a kind spirit in which this debate has been under way in the last few minutes. I would just like to inform my colleague Zivkovic that the SNS has 497,000 members, that the SNS has the most support in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but that we are still open to new people, for people of knowledge, for people who want to help the team and Alexander Vukic in reforming our society. Is there Mr. Nedja Jovanovic, whether these are other people who are politically engaged or not politically engaged, in any case the SNS is open to new people, but in any case I thank the remarks and that these things are not repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24424	Thank you, Mr. Granny. I apologize again in front of the professional service. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24425	Now that we've focused the discussion in this direction, then there's something more to be said. Of course, I would like to thank my distinguished colleague and friend Zoran Babic for identifying him in the SPS and quality, as well as in the SPS members, and especially from the SPS parliamentary group. This only gives us the incentive to move on and on even better than is now in the coalition capacity, as well as in the capacity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, she can't change anything, and as Grandma cares about it, that's how she feels about Mr. Zivkovic. Of course that I'm gonna stay alone, and as I said earlier, we're gonna move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24426	Thank you. Replica, MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24427	So I've now realized that these papers that are shared here by people who are authorized to do this, these are the officials of this Assembly, that these are not official papers, like this list of speakers. I didn't know, I expected everything we're getting here to be official, but if you say it's possible it's off the record, it's a bad fact. I thought that when we got something that was purely official and someone in parliament was responsible for it. Of course, it didn't occur to me to move and to strengthen and so many members of the SNS that we've been informed about again, and I really don't know if it was meant to make me laugh or scare me, either one or the other, I don't think it's funny or scares me. I volunteered for the line of Babic because he answered and you gave him the word completely without a foundation. It's not mentioned. It has nothing to do with that. If the party mentioned that someone was coming to you it was in a positive sense, so there was no reason for replication again. But when I heard that exchange of praises between Mr Babic and Mr Nedja Jovanovic, I can only say two things. First of all, it's obvious that Freud has a big impact on what's going on here, and second of all, I'm getting out of this story scared for my own safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24428	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I suppose this is also in the spirit of what you said at the beginning in your presentation. You know very well, and I'm sure you know that every official document must have a signature, which comes out of the National Assembly, and this is just a notice to the MPs and it's variable, about those who are registered for discussion and who should speak at the moment. Once again, I say it's not an official document. Any official document must also contain the signature of an authorised person. Thank you. Replica, Mr Babic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, has been mentioned, and that closes the circle of replicas, as Mr Zivkovic said he would never answer again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24429	At no time was it my desire to scare anyone, no one in Serbia, no one in the environment, no one in the world should fear the SNS. Personally, as one of the founders of the SNS, I am pleased that up to that number of half a million members and many more sympathisers and those who support Alexander Vukic's and SNS' policies, we have come into existence in seven years' time. But I don't want to apologize because relations and relations in one Assembly, in the Serbian Parliament, are full of respect for each other. No matter what size, no matter how many MPs in the parliamentary group, mutual respect exists. I do not want to apologize that this government supports 208 MPs who communicate with each other without doing so in the way Bojan Pajtic does with his coalition partners in the government of Vojvodina, so it is necessary to turn their hands to the MPs in order to support him in some decision, so it is necessary to bring MPs in or blackmail you in order to support the policy of Bojan Pajtic and the Democratic Party. I'm sorry that our relations are on democratic grounds, which are based on agreement, mutual respect and respect for everyone's opinion. We will cultivate such relationships and beyond. That someone's relationship is a side to their partners on the political scene, what to do. But I think it's the basis of democracy, the basis of decency, and we will continue that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24430	Thank you, Mr. Babic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as I can tell, the investigation is progressing in the right direction. As soon as the defendants are mentioned, the judges, etc. I'm afraid my colleague may be recommended for the services of a future lawyer. As far as I know, my colleague Jovanovic is a lawyer and certainly my colleague noticed. But in a previous speech by my esteemed fellow farmer, who is a recordr not in offerings, but a recordr by won subsidies, I calculated very easily that he won himself more in 2007 than 126 advanced forest villages. So, all the farmers in 126 forest villages from the Kragujeva County didn't get the subsidy my fellow farmer got. So I wonder what the agricultural inspector was doing, what was the phytosanitary inspector doing, how did agricultural inspectors not notice that someone submitted the request and the phytosanitary inspector to find that someone submitted a request on 15.8th of March for the allocation of 525,000 euros of incentives, a subsidy for the wine vines so far, that they planted it on the plots of 15.8th which he submitted, on parcels 2817, 2818, 2819 as Krcedin, and that they did not notice that the contract was concluded only on 7.11.2007 and that they could not see it in the spring, in March, April, May, but that it could not be in November? I don't know what a phytosanitary inspector was doing on the 1.11. When he came into control of those so far that they were already supposed to be great, how did he not find the contract still missing? What did the agricultural inspector do when he didn't see that at the bidding held in the Indji municipality of renting that agricultural land that two companies competed with each other? How could the inspector not have noticed that both companies represented one man at the auction? Both the winery and "Agrouniu", represented Branko Đuric, who is the director of Agrounia, whose owner is MK? How did one man compete against himself? That's why I think that no matter how much my colleague supports this law, since he talked about subsidies that are so much without the need of foreign investors, I suggest that what they've given to foreign investors to give to my colleague a farmer may be re-defined for the cultivation of the vine. Since what he gained was not enough to keep him in agricultural waters, he sold it together with Miodrag Kostic, the company "Agrounia", owned by the IK, three years later. Under this law, I must say that I support this law, because it will for the first time prevent citizens from experiencing the state as the violence of the clerk, the inspector over them. This law will certainly prevent, and neither since 1992 until today, so the question can be asked – what have some waited for 15 years, since 2000, what have they waited for after the change, which has not been reformed, or reform in this sense of inspection, what have they been doing for 15 years, or 12 years, that they have not passed such a law? This law is worth supporting and I welcome that it is supported by many, and it prevents the inspection sector from removing business competition. So we who live in the interior know very well that various inspectors have been in the service of various businessmen, tycoons, etc. and that, through inspection supervision, business competition could be removed in terms of what kind of inspection it was, whether it was local, on the territory of local self-government, whether it was provincial, whether it was urban and whether it was republican. The inspectors could, given the inconsistencies of the law, that such a system law did not even exist, have been able to abuse inspection surveillance roughly for the purpose of removing competition. It could also be because political parties were at that time, especially the former regime's party extremely politically vindictive to all those who did not make material, financial and voting contributions to the former regime's party, she could, the inspection services, have been able to monitor the abuse and work to abuse them for political purposes, i.e. closely party purposes of the former regime's party. I'll give you some examples. For example, a construction inspection in India filed a series of criminal charges against peasants who were digging septic caves, making sheds, etc. But in the centre of Indjija, they were built a building called Traydjunk, a business apartment of between 30,000 and 40,000 squares without a building permit. To be a miracle even bigger, without the permission of the Indji municipality, it bought two or three million euros in squares, although the building had neither a building permit nor a useful permit. So, not that they let the investor build it, but they also put the municipal funds into buying space in a building that didn't have the permission to use it. What was such a building inspection doing? And look at the wonders, just on the last floor of that business, residential, large building, meaning, one quarter, on the last floor, look at the wonders, the president of the Indji municipality and the vice president of the party of the former regime, there's a 250-square penthouse. Could that inspection control of the locals have been corrupt? So he could have been corrupt, he could have been political, he could have removed business competition, because, for example, for the purchase of that space, another company appeared, which instead of 2,000 euros per square, asked for 1,000, but behold, a miracle of space by the Indji municipality bought in an object where the price was twice as high, although it was almost identical to business spaces. I ask, what were the various local construction inspections doing when they allowed buildings from 30 to 40 thousand square meters to be built in the centre of Indjia, while farmers in the territory of the Indji municipality filed criminal charges for the construction of warehouses, sheds, boilers, and even, it seems to me, and for the digging of septic caves, I'm not sure? What was the circuit environmental inspector doing? What was he doing in the Indji municipality when he allowed the Indjia water supply to build a water-recycling factory for lead batteries, and to waste water from such an industry, which is certainly not clean and located above the well, above the water supply, because they can't be released into the regional sewers that go to the Danube, so they can do some consequences, so someone can shut down the Lead Accumulators Recycling Factory? A solution was found to release waste water into the synaptic canal behind the building, which means one trench, into one bar, and thus to take care of ecological waste water from the lead recycling plant. What did the environmental inspector do to protect the environment when he allowed it, which later caused the quality of water in India to be very low and that this resulted in no water being used during a certain period for almost a year? What did a construction inspector at the site do when he even had Mr. Dulic's solution to ban construction and design even battery recycling factories in India? What did the building inspector do that allowed a multi-thousand-square factory without any building permit to be built? What were local building inspectors doing? What kind of inspection was that when they let something like that happen? What have the building inspector and veterinary inspector and environmental inspector done together on the "Energo-Greene" issue, where members of the former regime's party at the firm they founded in Belville have gained 50% ownership of their property, on the condition that they will be given passage through inspection controls to obtain proper permits and have promised to have 150,000 tons of slaughterhouse waste? Today, a foreign investor shut down that factory, stopped working, took care of the slaughterhouse waste because they cheated on him. They took away two million and 250 thousand, 700 thousand for founding rights, although they only had paperwork that meant that they would provide him with a transit and a better position with inspection services and state authorities. At that end, they took 700 thousand euros, or 50% of the company, and did not bury the aces in the field. What were construction and other inspections doing? They had already taken away two million and 250 thousand, which for the plot, which was for municipal equipment, although the plot was once state-owned, so it changed property in a strange way, etc. What were all those inspections doing when they let that happen? But they were also zealous in India, and I believe in other environments, when it came to the political or possibly business competition of their friends who funded them and their parties, as well as themselves. I've already described that someone lives in a 250 square-square penthouse in a building that was illegally built, in which the municipality bought a business space without having been allowed to use the building. Another thing, how does a high-ranking, former regime vice president put a five-pointer on his profile and have a 500,000-euro apartment in Vienna? His highest position was the president of the municipality. How can a brother of the president of the municipality have a house on Tatar Hill worth 500,000 euros, and his office is the brother of the president of the Indji municipality and the current vice president of the former regime party? These are examples of how inspection services have done so far, how those who now have a government in the shade, who continue to rule one-quarter of the territory and act as opposition, have done so. If someone thinks we're better off tomorrow, the ones who robbed us yesterday, they're mature for psychoanalysis, and we can discuss Freud. I'm afraid there's some weird impulses and motives in there, and that's why he mentions Freud twice in five minutes. So if you think those who robbed us yesterday can take us to a better tomorrow, then you're mature for psychoanalysis, for Freud, for an army of psychiatrists and psychiatry. I believe there are experts here, I'm not an expert on this guy. I want these from the government in the shade, these from the shadows to spend as much time in the shadows as possible, so they don't come out of it, because in the shadows they've found a place under the sun, even though they've been in the shadows and the shade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24432	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24433	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honored Mrs. Udovici, honored guests and guests of the Ministry and the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly and chair of today's session, Mr. Becic, I would like to sum up my comment on this bill at six points, Mrs. Udovici. First of all, gentlemen, we have submitted 22 amendments to the draft inspection control law concerning four groups of issues. The first group makes respect for Serbian spelling. I think it's very important that one part of our attention be directed to that question, gentlemen, when we write bill proposals and when we adopt laws. The second group of issues concerns more urgency in the application of the law. The third group concerns a stricter criminal policy. We have such an approach here to analyse all the bill's proposals. The fourth group of amendments concerns a faster start of effective application of this law. That's the first act, Mrs. Widowsky. Second act. I, as a folk MP of 250 of us here in the National Assembly, especially appreciate when the Minister and Minister or Minister's team approach a serious and professional preparation of a bill, especially when we work in our country in conditions in which the Government does not usually apply such an approach. We have an exception to the rules here, and I'm sorry it's not the rule of applying both seriousness and one commitment in the preparation of the bill. Third act, gentlemen. I think it's time for it to come out here in particular when an individual, for example. In particular, he points out in some way in his field of action. It's especially good, I think, that the Secretary of State Mrs. Jagic was very committed to preparing the bill. She argued, argued, and did not find it difficult for her to dedicate a good part of her time to convince us that this was good and to prepare something good. I can say it here - bravo! That's the third point. Fourth act, gentlemen. It's a very good explanation. We read both explanations and there we find many things. This argument is very well prepared. Logical and reasoned objectives are very well defined, and there I have singled out a few things that are here and envisaged as the objectives of this law. I agree with every purpose here. Here, preventing harmful consequences, preventing inspection, creating a favourable business environment, reducing administrative and financial burdens on the economy. Well, that's all our policy, the politics of the New Party. Of course, when the government comes with such a proposal, which goes in line with what the New Party's policy is, there's nothing left for me but to say, well done for it! But within point five, I have a little problem, gentlemen. The problem concerns one of the contradictions I have seen here by analysing this bill of law and the actions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. With this bill, as far as I've noticed, we're doing everything we can to create a decent business environment that will also suit foreign companies to work here and invest. But what did I notice? On the other hand, the government is sending a message that the state is planning to continue with Dinkic's incentive model, i.e. a subsidy. I think it's a kind of conflicting message from the government of the Republic of Serbia. We from the New Party support the creation of legal frameworks for better and more orderly business. We think it's the wrong approach to drag investors by the sleeve, to provide for his presence, we find it necessary to create such a business environment in which foreign companies will fight for our market instead of pulling them by the sleeve. It's a real policy that needs to be guided in our opinion. At last, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mrs. Udovici and guests from the ministry, wherever money is spent, and I noticed that the application of this law requires one 260 million dinars, then I think it is very important that there is a clear focus on the justification of that cost, and that we MPs know that we have to control the spending of that money. I am very interested in the Minister's position on our amendments, and we are ready for the amendment debate as soon as the session of the National Assembly is scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24434	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has the People's MP Velinka Tosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24435	We have a good proposal for a law on inspection supervision before us, the Honored Chairman, the government's respected representatives, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia. The aim of the government of the Republic of Serbia is to have good laws, but the aim of this government is to ensure consistent application of the laws passed. No law is perfect, it is subject to changes and therefore there is a need to pass a new, complex inspection law. The main objectives of the proposed law are to monitor the situation and assess the risks in all inspections and planning and publication obligations. One of the inspection tasks is to curb the gray economy and return illegal entities to legal flows. So far, we have had a very worrying picture on the ground, and that is why it is necessary to pass this law. If everything had worked the way it was supposed to, would Serbia's picture be the way it is? To overcome this, we need a new law that provides for a sufficient number of perpetrators in municipalities and local self-governments to match the number of inhabitants. We need inspectors who have enough knowledge and skills. Material technical equipment of inspection services is required, and this includes adequate equipment related to computers, vehicles, which includes footwear and clothing for field work, the possession of specialized software. In one word, we need a better organisation of work and training for inspection services. To meet citizens and businesses, then create a better business environment, we need to pass one of these comprehensive laws that will specify the powers and obligations of all relevant factors. I call on all fellow Members to support the draft inspection law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24436	The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24437	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, the draft law on inspection supervision that we are discussing today is a whole new system law that sets out very, very precisely what are the rights but also what are the obligations that must be respected in the exercise of inspection supervision. This area was indeed necessary to regulate and one comprehensive law for one simple reason because there have been a number of problems that have been encountered in practice so far in this area. One of these problems is that there was insufficient attention to prevention. There were no mechanisms to act preventively, so that something would be warned, to prevent something from happening in time, rather than how it worked. It was waiting for something to happen first, so the damage to be done first, and then it seemed that it was, of course, wrong and it was a vicious circle. Otherwise, we as a society have such a tendency to pay less attention to prevention, meaning that we do not make enough effort when preventive work is and when preventive mechanisms are questionable. I am very pleased to note that this is gradually changing because there is no other way to change it but gradually, and perhaps the best example for that is precisely the proposal for this law. What I would especially like to praise is that this bill with special attention applies to prevention and preventive mechanisms. Also, what has been a significant problem so far has been that there has been a lack of risk assessment or an insufficient risk assessment. As a consequence, we had one situation, so on the one hand, we have entities that can potentially pose a great danger to human health, animals, plants, in general to the environment, this is an example. On the other hand, we have completely harmless subjects, and as a consequence of this, we had that both subjects are treated in exactly the same way. It is, of course, wrong and, as a consequence of such a policy, we had it so that people would say those subjects that were potentially dangerous get away with it, and that they would be found out and that it would only start working when it was too late, when the damage had already been done. One of the best things about this law right now is that it's going to change. It will also change the lack of good coordination when inspection supervision is a question that so far existed as a rather dissuasive organization, and we know that without sufficient good coordination there is no quality work and no good result and there is no of course efficiency, and this is simply one area that does not suffer ineffectiveness. But what is the biggest definitely problem so far is the emergence of a gray economy which is, unfortunately, present in our economy. Of course, we all know the consequences of the gray economy, it's one not fair match, one not fair relationship. Unfortunately, those economic operators who are not registered in relation to those economic operators who are regularly harmonising all their obligations to their country, in time, are in accordance with the law. That's not even all, there's been a very often absurd situation. Since, of course, non-registered economic operators, the law itself is invisible and they were neither subject to any inspection at all, and on the other hand, economic operators who were reported very often were subject to or too often of inspection supervision or inappropriately long inspection, which of course created problems for them of a different type. So basically those people who did business in accordance with the law, worked in accordance with the law, came into the situation to suffer, unfortunately for that reason, that they suffer, which is, of course, absolutely unacceptable. It's one situation that can't be approached on a partial basis, it can't be partially solved. There was really a need for intervention, and that is, in the right sense, the words State intervention, the state's reaction. I think this bill is one of the best possible reactions our country has ever seen. It's really about one systematic, above all reform law. What's most important is that to the point, inspection surveillance has been established, and in all its aspects, starting with the kind of inspection surveillance, mutual coordination, all of these elements that I've been talking about so far. What is expected as a result of the effective application of this law is, as most of my colleagues have already mentioned, that definitely one legal security atmosphere will be created which will naturally act incentivically on potential investors. Again, it all leads to its own jobs, and that will mean new jobs. The effective application of this law will mean one fair, improved competition, protection of competition and definitely what is most important of all that I would particularly point out at this time, all the formats that have so far appeared in the form of any randomity, in the form of any inequality, any abuses including corruption when inspection work is a question, effectively applying this law will make it impossible or the possibility of it being reduced to a minimum which you will agree to the present situation really is a major progress. All of these are the reasons why I think this is about one definitely quality law, one law that will be very good for both our country and our citizens, so I hope that all colleagues in the voting day will support this law, and I am sure that the SNS will definitely do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24438	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24439	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, the distinguished minister, esteemed fellow Members and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will, of course, support the Law on Inspective Oversight in the voting day, because we believe that inspection supervision at this time is not adapted to the needs of the modern public administration, economy and business environment, which all condition that it virtually endangers the competitiveness of the Republic of Serbia, that it affects the inflow of new investments, and that I conditionly say the suffocating economic environment in Serbia. Therefore, the idea of the legislator was precisely to combine and connect the entire inspection supervision, i.e. to create a new inspection control system that would be able to meet all requirements in one quality, professional, effective and efficient way. I think it is very important to say that we cannot observe the inspection control system in the vacuum, that it is part of a broader context, i.e. part of a broader reform, i.e. public administration reform. In this sense, I welcome what you have announced these days that a more quality action plan has been developed for the period between 2015 and 2017 is aimed at achieving exactly better functioning of both the state and the market, but not public administration reform is important only because of the functioning of the state and the market. It is important also because of our Eurointegration and I would like to remind all those who listen to this that just a few days ago, EU representatives in Serbia, Ambassador Davenport said that one of the three key things in Serbia's Eurointegration process is exactly public administration reform. What is the current state of inspection in Serbia? We apply today, which sounds like science fiction, the 1992 Law, although in 2005, when we passed the new Law on State Administration, we made a commitment to this law, that is, this inspection control law, will soon be passed. It's been going on for ten years soon, it's true, I'd say too long. The other thing is that this area is governed by over 1,000 different regulations, and there is, I think, a recordr, an infamous tax recordr that applies as many as 149 different regulations, and when we sometimes get angry with our inspectors, I don't, of course, talk about those who are prone to corrupt activities, because of the mistakes they make, we have to take into account that a large number of regulations apply to each other are infrequent in cohesion or solutions are ambiguous or they're confusing, and then it's not difficult to make mistakes in such a situation. Also, here we've heard different data, I'm no longer sure if 35, 36 or 37 different inspections. A survey by USAID has been working for 1,000 businessmen for many years, for example in 2012 showed that after a negative impact on business in Serbia, inspection supervision takes a very bad fifth place. The fact is that in 2013, something changed, i.e. that the results were slightly better, i.e. that the businessmen expressed themselves more favourably on the area of inspection supervision, but in any case not sufficiently, the general view remains that changes of this law had to be made, i.e. fundamental amendments to this law. When I read the materials that are related to this area, not only to the law and these reports, but also to some examples of practice, I encountered a large number of paradoxes that exist in our inspection practice, which is precisely the law that needs to be solved. One of them is that they are in advantage, which is just amazing in our country for those in the gray zone, because they are very often not, and sometimes they cannot be subject to control. On the other hand, we have those that, let me say legal business, which are very often overloaded by inspection controls again. The other thing, which is problematic and which creates one paradoxical situation, is that on the one hand we have incompletely defined jurisdiction of inspection and that sometimes we don't know who we need to address, and that there is overlapping between different inspections and that even happens in practice that different inspections on the same subject have different opinions, which is just amazing. The third thing that is paradoxical is the realization that it is an inspection business and that the effectiveness of the inspection is measured by the number of controls, i.e. the number of measures that are given. On the contrary, the inspection task is to introduce all economic operators into legal business. Sometimes it must also be done in a way called applying certain measures, i.e. criminal policies, but it must be done through prevention. So the idea should be that we are dealing with prevention, not repression, which is what our people say – it is better to prevent than cure. We are, unfortunately, very often and treated in the wrong way. Another paradox that exists is that instead of having certain plans as per the possibility of a multi-annual plan, that's what this law will bring. We very often do inspection surveillance arbitrarily, i.e. on ad hoc base. The solution to this could only have been the adoption of a single system law, as is the one that lies ahead of us, which is the product, which is in line with all international good practices and EU standards. It is not fully in line with the EU, because there is simply no one directive in the EU, but that is why many of the chapters that we will naturally open in some future period are being subject to inspection and in this sense it is very important. It is also very important to introduce a coordination mechanism, i.e. the creation of this so-called co-ordination committee, which is tasked with monitoring and analysing the situation and giving strategic direction and, of course, coordinating the work of all inspections. Then we have one unit within the Ministry that is in charge of supporting, and we also have an administrative inspection that is in charge of monitoring, or overseeing the application of all of this. It is also very important to introduce a risk assessment that we have had so far, but in very little scope, on the basis of which planning is carried out, such as the important and control lists which are in place, as the Minister said, of a public document, which, in fact, also based on an assessment of the economic power, a specific entity and the size of the infringements, determines what measure will be applied to it. The control lists also play a preventive role because they serve as a self-control instrument and for self-assessment, i.e. economic operators are practically able to verify to what extent they are wrong and to correct their mistakes before they become subject to inspection. It is also very important that measures are directed against the grey economy, which may need to be put first, or redefine from the authority of inspection services. It is certainly important to introduce a single information system that I would like to say a few words about, or to make a proposal to the Minister. Previously, I would like to commend that this law has passed a very large and most transparent procedure, which is why it has been praised by both the European Commission and our NGO sector. What I would like to say about this unique information system, that is, to give you one proposal from one of my own to say under the terms of expertise, I would suggest that this future system that will be revived in two years, called the E-Inspector, instead of a single information system be actually a so-called company network, or an internal business social network. So that there is no misunderstanding of the internal business social network has absolutely nothing to do with social networks such as Facebook, but rather they are designed as something that represents a container of knowledge that is constantly expanding and that constantly complements its knowledge and then spreads that knowledge throughout the whole system. In order to understand how important this is, I will tell you that some very serious companies in the world have developed their own internal business social networks, say "Diloit", a well-known auditory house, Microsoft, and IBM, many other large companies and some other companies, since in the meantime such companies have started to be created in the form of portals, i.e. in the form of software that can be downloaded, and then based on them to create their own networks were implemented in their business and literally from all possible sectors you have companies, I'm not sure if the inspections have done so in the world, but why we shouldn't be the first. I can tell you that they did it, like Tim Obel, Shell, General Electric and Phillips, so huge companies. What are these possibilities that we could have in this way? Let us take one example: An inspector encounters a problem he has no solution for, and we know that there is an inspector in the inspection service that the solution has. In classical communication, he can send an email to send him a message to get an answer from him, and in that case the number of those who know the answer to that question, or the solution to that problem, is two, therefore, increasing incrementally. When you have an implemented social network, or when people are networked, they communicate with everyone, or knowledge spreads exponentially, or through geometric progression. The other thing that's very important is that you are, in time, creating a kind of overall knowledge, because this knowledge is permanently complemented. You're actually building a species that can and doesn't have to be such an organized inspection Wikipedia, which in this permanent way acquires new knowledge and these knowledge spreads throughout the system, which will say, all new young inspectors, apart from gaining knowledge on the ground, can gain knowledge and thanks to this networking, thanks to the experience of the senior inspectors on them by being networked and all using this one knowledge container that exists. Any problem that any inspector has, he may, as modernly said, respect a wall or put a question to a forum or a question and answer, or “q and a” section, and keep that answer in writing forever. What is very important is that every knowledge that is created remains forever inscribed, never disappears and is constantly complemented. It keeps spreading and keeps getting bigger. Furthermore, one very important thing is that we have the expansion of knowledge both by horizontal and by vertical, cross-sectoral, inter-human. What's the problem, you can network both the police and the court and the prosecution and they can have access to it and also give them certain imputements, but you also have topdown communication, or more hierarchical levels, so to speak, under the circumstances, you can include that they also have the opportunity to communicate directly with the people on the front line, so to speak, directly, or from them to get direct information. You, Minister, you know, and it's not just about politics, it's about business, people who get to the top very often lose contact with what's going on on on the front line. In this way, you have the opportunity to constantly receive firsthand information practically, i.e. to know constantly what are the problems faced by those who are on the front line, they have the most information and therefore you have the chance to keep this system framework, which is called the inspection system, supplement it, improve it and make it better. Not to mention that you can open it up to the outside to some extent, so you get certain impulses, thus helping those who want to do business legally, to do business legally. So you can take advantage of one resource that rarely speaks and is constantly forgotten, which is people who have, for example, worked in inspection or any other state service for years, decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24440	Time
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24441	I'll be done in 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24442	The time has elapsed for your parliamentary group. Thank you. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr. Kori Udovicki.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24443	I just want to thank Mr. Bauer for the suggestion I understood and which seems very interesting to me and which we will definitely consider. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24444	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24445	Dear Chairman, respected vice presidents, respected guests, respected citizens, at first I must commend the work of this ministry, which is part of the system laws, the system solutions that the government has been carrying out since it took office. On page 42, one systemically good law, which has 70 members, has covered all the problems that have been making it difficult for many years to work and businesses and inspection controls, i.e. inspectors and the lives of citizens to lower to a lower level than anticipated. We inform all honest businessmen that the state is there to protect them and at the same time protect both their interests and the interests of the Ministry and the Government on the one hand and, of course, citizens on the other, who are the most important in this whole story. The set of extremely serious laws that have already been passed continues with this law and regardless of their application, which so far has been the case, the adoption of this law in the long run will give us one solution that will not be objected to and the solution that will provide answers to all questions. Control lists to be used in the work of these inspectors will be transparent, will be made publicly available to all. Among other things, it's really good, we're talking about 2015, April is the month, the electronic inspection system, or the e-inspector, is really extremely important. Finally, Serbia is entering the ranks of countries that will have regular inspection supervision. In the fight against the gray economy, there is simply no calculations in the fight against crime and that is exactly what this law shows. The main objective of this law and the objective of all previous laws is, above all, the state's regulation, the functioning of the rule of law, which will lead to the improvement of the business environment and the overall ambience of the state, which will directly affect investors, both foreign and domestic, thus creating a condition to employ people and to live the life of a man of an advanced state. We need to look into the truth, which, unfortunately, is painful in this case. The 1992 law applies and it is impossible not to ask the question – who is responsible for the 1992 law being applied from 2000 to 2012, 2013? Why did the previous authorities not consider changing such important and important laws? It is likely that the change in the Law on Inspectives would reduce the degree of corruption and fraud that resulted from the functioning of governments that did not take care of their citizens, rather rather taking care of those who led these citizens to the state of being left without a job, to remain without existence and not to see the way out of their situation. Finally, in Serbia, there is a party in power that is ready to deal with all problems, and at last in Serbia, businessmen who work fairly do not have to worry about illegal competition. We inform all those who work honestly that they will be protected, I repeat that once again. We also inform all those who are working illegally and unfairly that the end has come, that the state will put them in the way and in the next period, or that they should close those illegal facilities in which they work and which threaten the business of the economy, endanger Serbia's economic system, or the financial system, that simply this law will not allow them to do so. The citizens probably knew that, but I'll do it again. According to the old law, believe it or not, inspection surveillance was not possible in undeclared facilities, so at the same time it was possible to work in an undeclared facility, where inspectors had no right to exercise control, and at the same time controlled those who work fairly, paid VAT, had registered employees and it was such a harmful situation that it was very difficult to calculate in the financial effect, but given the number of employees, surely in several tens of thousands. Management and economy finally become partners thanks to this law. It will act exclusively preventively and, if necessary, criminally. Penalty policy is also foreseen. What is also important, and this law has taken care of everything, including that this criminal policy must be adapted to the subject being punished on the one hand, that is, the size of the entity. They will not generally be punished by one who has one and 1,000 or 2,000 employees, which has been the case so far. The size of the risk will be seen and the size of the entity being punished will be seen. Simply, this is a law that guarantees honesty, i.e. a fair relationship between the state on the one hand, businessmen and a relationship that will certainly increase the financial income of the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the Government. To end, I will no longer be in debt, the most important thing of all is that this law enters into force within a relatively short period of time, that those who have worked illegally have the means and time to introduce themselves into legal flows. In the previous period, this is indeed so, there are inspectors who abuse their functions and here, from this place, from the National Assembly, I am already calling on citizens, or businessmen who have such problems to freely address the heads of the district, the ministries. They have someone to protect them. It's in this case state. So no one has the right to spread corruption, ask for bribes and abuse their position. I repeat, once again, please contact the district chiefs, please contact the Ministry, there is someone to protect you. The final message, a law that is on the agenda, must be supported by anyone who thinks well of this Republic to Serbia and our citizens, and in accordance with this I call on everyone to vote unanimously on this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24446	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Simic. Here you go, Mrs. Simic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24447	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for a comprehensive inspection law submitted by the government today has been inescapable. If that were the case, the fact that all economic operators agreed with the need to adopt this law as systemic, not in terms of changes and additions that would only provide half the solution, although during the examination of the adoption of this law, there were also such ideas. All economic operators have been consulted. And everyone pointed out that it was absolutely unacceptable to follow the provisions of the 1992 State Administration Act. They are also insufficient, overcome and half-regular and outdated solutions to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which have been applied in this matter. In this matter, before we passed this law, inspection supervision was regulated by about 1000 regulations; which is the law, regulations, regulations and other sublaws. This led to the fact that certain economic operators were controlled several times, while others were not controlled at all. This led to the conflict of norms, as well as that some of the subjects, or many economic operators, did not know at all what their rights and obligations were because of this number of legal solutions that regulated this matter, so many would probably not violate the rules that they could have been familiar with. But how do you track 1,000 legal solutions? We lawyers can't do that either. Those who were the most hit were, of course, small businessmen, with a small number of workers. In addition to the fact that they had to always have one employee who co-ordinated with only inspection authorities, however, they were not able to come into contact with all the necessary solutions from the matter of inspection supervision and were therefore repeatedly punished. Of course, this favored the gray economy, namely unregistered enterprises, or companies that were registered, but did not respect all the legal procedures. By passing a system law that will regulate this matter, such abuses, as well as overlapping norms will no longer be possible. Today we've heard so much praise at the expense of this law. We've heard so much from all the political groups about the need to make it. I would only ask that in the voting day we all support this law, because it is really necessary, for our economies in general, in terms of its further affirmation, and in terms of attracting future foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24448	Thank you, Mrs. Simic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Paulovina. Here you go, Mr. Half.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24449	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with colleagues, honourable MPs, I'd like to give a dutiful review of the latest amendments to these regulations that need to come into effect, because we've mostly had a chance today to hear a lot of things, but I'd rather stick to those things that are crucial and which are new. While in the modern legal systems of the European Community, the Board of Inspectors has one defined role and is organised as a special state service, this is not the case because there are a number of sectoral regulations that are spread by many laws, as well as a number of inspection services, which refers to only one irregularities and legal area and conflicting problems that we often face because of a number of regulations, and the reason is, among other things, in the uncertainty and uncertainty of the subjects applying these regulations. This kind of system that exists with us is certainly outdated, time goes on, it is anachron, and hence the need for new system law, which is in the countries of the European Union that would overcome the current and regulate the methodology of the conduct of civil servants in the inspection area, as it is in other countries. As a result, there was a need for this law to be passed, and it was expressed itself by economic operators who spoke and made known about this inspection of today’s type, as inefficient and susceptible corruption, slow, inadequate changes that followed with reform regulations, which led to this law being brought to life in our congregation. The basic characteristic of this current system, which is still valid today, is the absence of preventive work and risk assessment of adverse consequences in order to improve and establish a stable and sustainable system that will in all respects the market economy, solid economic businesses, there is agreement on the need for this law as systemic, because the existing system is not adequate for new reforms. It is obvious that as much as a society is modern, it has a modern administrative system, it is the inspection system that needs to move ahead of the existing system, and it is also the new role of inspection service, and it comes down to the existing preventive and control function, which is the essence of a change that these previous legal experiences do not know about. I'd like to take the contents out briefly. The prevention which is such a crucial change is defined by the law in terms of providing professional and advisory support to supervised entities, by achieving the public of work, transparency, publication of existing rules and plans, and by law, which are preventive measures, because I have not heard that they were decidently presented. This is a warning of the supervised entity in its obligations under the laws and regulations, as well as of the regulations and actions and measures directed against the supervised entity and sanctions to act contrary to this, to indicate to the supervised entity the possibility of the occurrence of adverse consequences of its operation or conduct, to impose on the application of certain rules, as well as to take over or refrain from certain actions in its business, and, of course, to control the supervised entity in the context of the application of the rules imposed by the inspector, and all in order to avoid adverse consequences. Who are the surveillance and control carriers? These are certainly inspectors who will have to be, as the law has decreed, particularly trained to pass an expert examination within a certain time limit from the date of entry into force of this law, and other powers are to monitor the situation in the area of inspection, to assess the risks of the occurrence of the damage, the work plan which is crucial for the taking of the regular inspection procedure. If we were to ask who the supervised entities are, in short, they are legal entities, entrepreneurs and individuals who have not performed the registration of their actions which the law normally requires to be registered, otherwise they are in violation, which is today how I had the opportunity here to hear a common phenomenon. The procedure is, as in any other procedure, the two-stage basic characteristics, which means the possibility of making an appeal to an inspection body within eight days, at the conclusion of three days where some procedural reasons for its adoption are involved, and in any event the conduct of a administrative dispute on the final decision of this service. As regards the type of procedures that I have already mentioned, this depends on whether the procedure is initiated in accordance with the planned plan and regular inspection control, then, if it is an emergency inspection measure, if it is to determine the enforcement of the appropriate measures imposed on the supervised entity, the control procedures and additional measures to determine certain facts. After this procedure, the inspection body shall make decisions on the measures and actions that are within the law, they may also take solutions and conclusions, as well as opinions, then suggestions, orders, recommendations in a broader sense, as their general transparent characteristics are replaced by the wide discretion of these entities. The control function shall be taken into account in the verification of whether the supervised person has carried out an inspector’s order in terms of recommendations, advice and the like, in order to avoid the resulting adverse consequences. There is also a special mention of the coordination body that this law requires. It is extremely important, because it monitors the level of coordination between inspection services, initiates appropriate measures. Its tasks include setting out guidelines for the conduct of inspectors, giving and considering the opinion of the directive and the methodological materials as precisely as the law states, requiring data and information and practically globalising a system of work that was newly established by this law and establishing a strict procedure at the same time. The fundamental change that this law provides is a preventive and control function. They provide one significant contribution to the creation of a modern and successful management system within this service, contrary to the current current current current one that we have had the opportunity to hear that it is dysfunctional, anachron and is not capable enough to meet the challenges and needs of modern economic movement. In particular, a single system law has been proposed to fill gaps in this administrative and legal area, expressing all advantages over all existing current current regulations, which fits into what is very important, in the ongoing pre-composition of socio-economic and legal movements in Serbia that reflect a new political and modern functioning. I would add something else to this that is not directly related to this, but it is a feature of the present and it has always been a situation in some way that the problem with government officials was always missing something that was necessary and concerns its specialization, education and stimulation. That's something that I think the state administration officer was missing. I'm talking about one average if we're talking about a specialization that wasn't because I thought not everyone in the public administration should know everything. For example, if a state official in the tax administration is working on VAT transactions, it should be transferred for business purposes to carry out absolute rights. That's okay, but we're talking about the level of one average. That is why I believe that the narrow specialization in the area for which the employee is employed is something which is an advantage to this present situation. As far as education is concerned, in some ways I feel that attending seminars is not enough and that it is the only form of education. Therefore, Article 50 of this new system law provides for education, training and professional training of inspectors to the level of verification of their knowledge. For me, it's something new, and I don't think it's been in some previous phases of government organization. Of course and stimulation, we recently had the opportunity of a fellow attorney to hear a very reasonable statement about the application of the rules and the adoption of the rules when it came to the choice of judges. Why should civil servants who do different quality work earn the same money? I think that's the point. For example, officials who do business during the year several or any other decision will be taken out of force by decision of the second-degree authority, whether by appeal by the party or by the right of supervision, while the other official does not have such a problem. But stimulating isn't such a way to make a lower profit. In my view, how much more stimulating is designed and better if, in this store that has proven to be more quality work during the year, and there are no decisions that have been put out of force, it is so much more meaningful and twice as useful because it is more stimulating for this one that does not show such quality of action. It's my view of what was one standard in some non-affirmative sense of a civil servant. The proposal for a law on inspection in everything corresponds to the needs of the legal system reform under way, so I would suggest to all my fellow Members that in order to achieve the right of the interests of Serbian citizens, as will we members of the SNS parliamentary group, they accept this proposed legal text and vote for it in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24450	The word has been given by MP Marko Atlagic, as the last reported debater.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24451	Dear Vice-President, respected representatives of the ministry, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the people, respected citizens of Serbia and this law, as many before, has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who submitted the MPs to the National Assembly of Serbia on 27 April 2014. Let me remind you, since the DS gentlemen this morning reminded me that they did not remember, and now there is none, I am sorry that there is none, but probably listen somewhere from the end and let them hear the exposés of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, is the most thorough, precise and comprehensive of all the previous 72 exposés of us which have been submitted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia since 1805, since the time of the first Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Prote Mateja Nenadovic. If it's necessary, I'll repeat it once more if they're watching this transmission somewhere, because there's not one representative of the DS against me. Mr. Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, on the side of the 92nd Expoze, said I quote – we will create an institutional and organisational framework for the systematic repression of the gray economy, primarily through the application of tax regulations and fundamental reforms of the tax administration. It's a finished quote. Mr President said on the side of the 32nd said exposure – the state administration must become a support rather than a barrier to investors and privates. It's a finished quote. That's how Alexander Vucic does it, that's how the SNS does it, as you see respected citizens, written down – done. Gentlemen, MPs, inspection and inspection are the backbone of the functioning of the state administration and the entire political system of our country. Therefore, when Serbia is modernised by the government of the Republic of Serbia, an extremely important issue is the reform of inspections. If we look at countries in the region, then we notice that they all implemented reforms, not only inspection but also state administrations, and especially inspection control ten years ago, some are 15, such as Croatia, some after seven, but we are only doing it now. Respected Serbian citizens, the former DS regime headed by Boris Tadic and Goran Pajtic failed to implement state administration reforms, or reform of inspections and inspections. Instead, they threw 51 billion euros in robbery privatisation out of the country, over-indebted the country and destroyed the system's institutions. They destroyed our past, our present and the future of our children, and if they had stayed in power for just a year, they would have destroyed our roots. Fortunately, our citizens of Serbia did not allow them to do so and sent them into a political past I hope will never return from. Here's their mistake. The government of the Republic of Serbia is correcting it. With this law, the current inspection system in the Republic of Serbia is diverged, not sufficiently coordinated. Over a thousand laws and sublegal acts regulate the work, some say, 34, I claim 35 inspections in 12 ministries. The lack of co-operation, overlapping and duplication of the work cycle, as well as frequent and long-term controls burden the work of business operators and draw strength and reduce the effectiveness of inspection supervision. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this law is to contribute to the creation of an orderly state, to facilitate the business of the economy, to reduce corruption space. To date, there has been no system law in our legal system of the Republic of Serbia that regulates inspections and inspection, but there are serious shortcomings in the coordination of inspection surveillance. Also, inspections do not have specialized software or a unique database. In the Republic of Serbia, a large number of inspections, as I said from 33 to 36, as we saw today how many there are, which apply over a thousand legal regulations in their work that are not available to control entities. Furthermore, the capacity of inspection bodies is insufficient and there is no clear evaluation criterion, nor is there a system of progress. The competent authority for the conduct of inspections for the taking of measures against unregistered entities is also limited. The jurisdiction of inspection to take action in the fight against the gray economy is also limited, and co-operation between inspection bodies is unsatisfactory. That is why this law will create a permanent structure for co-ordination of all inspections, and co-ordination against the gray economy will be its priority. The application of this law will eliminate a number of anomalies which will be eliminated and a single information system will be established as a key assumption for monitoring the effectiveness of the work of inspection surveillance. By applying this law, ladies and gentlemen, MPs will essentially change the work of all inspections and the work of the state administration. The relationship between inspection and economy is changing. Corruption will shrink. Business investment and job creation will be stimulated. Modernize and standardise inspection surveillance. The corruption force will disappear between inspectors, politicians and business entities that have now taken over in the previous regime of the unprecedented exchange. That's why the gentlemen of the former regime are fighting that this law has not been applied, it's not actually adopted at 15 years of age. In all, the Republic of Serbia will receive one of the best inspection laws by adopting this law. According to NGOs, one of the best in Europe. This is another proof that the RS government is taking steps in the realisation, modernisation of Serbia, which is thus warmly advocated and implemented by our Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and the entire RS government supported by the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On that behalf, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I invite you to vote in favour of this law. I especially invite you gentlemen from the opposition benches, although there are none from the DS, and there is one lady from Tadic, which I congratulate her on, that you also give your vote for this law to at least a little, even so demonstrate your will to modernise our country. Let me finally deny Mr. Veselinović, who at the beginning of today's Assembly, has made it false that the educational inspection has only a dozen inspectors. Educational inspection at the Ministry of Education and Technological Development has 126 inspectors in primary and secondary schools and four inspectors for higher education. He also made a lie about the SNS when he said there were very few in the O.R. You can check, there were 40 from the ruling, from his party of two MPs, from Tadic's six MPs. So SNS along with socialists 41. I know he's a professor of law school and a law professor. We'd tell our students if the exact data weren't to be pounded. I ask him in the future to present accurate information in the National Assembly respecting this high house. As you can see, there's no academic honesty this afternoon either. He's not here one day in the afternoon. If he'd stayed one day until the end, maybe I'd have voted for his amendment. In that name, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-04-02-0.u24452	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a principled debate on the proposal for a law. Continuing Tuesday 7 April 2015 starting at 10.00 hours is the second item of the agenda. Thank you.
