ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36462	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that we have 97 registered Members of Parliament. Please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs to determine the number of MPs present in the hall. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. An MP? The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36463	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a first question for the cabinet of the Prime Minister, Mr Alexander Vukic and the Minister of Finance, Mr Vujovic, and unfortunately, illegalities in the work of the Tax Administration and especially the Tax Administration of the Kragujevac branch. That's exactly what this is about. In the period from 2006 to 2009, the Tax Administration controlled the work of the company "Stara Varoš" from Topola and concluded in the record that there is no illegality in the work of the company. After a few months, in late 2009 and early 2010, after that control, the tax police are coming from Belgrade, ordering extraordinary tax control and determining that the company has taxed the income tax of citizens of 12.6 million dinars. The company's googogue begins, criminal charges against company owners are being filed, and since 2010 and since 2013, the money is being removed from the account of the company "Stara Varoš" from Topola, forced to pay it off by the Tax Administration of Serbia. After that, of course, the owner addresses the court, sues the IRS and succeeds some months ago to obtain a final ruling from the second time that the IRS is obliged to replace the damage that forced payment was taken from the Stara Varoš company's 56m dinar account. So, the principal, the interest and everything, and of course he's free of all complaints. What is particularly interesting about this case that more than 250 witnesses have been investigated in court, including a tax officer who came into control of the company and who, on the basis of which he came to control a company when he had a tax check report from only a month or two ago, said he had received an oral order from the then director of the Serbian Tax Administration, who was unfortunately from the DS, and other senior officials, that the owner of the company was helping at that time the opposition party, New Serbia and SNS. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because of this nonsense made by the tax administration, will have to pay out of the budget 56 million dinars, and it is also a problem that the tax administration is removing from the budget of the municipality of Topola, which has absolutely nothing to do with it. Last week, 16 million dinars were removed from the municipality's budget on the basis of an alleged income tax from citizens who were granted income to local self-government. Now, imagine you illegalities in the work of the Tax Administration that should be paid by the citizens of Topola, the citizens of Serbia. Once again, the capital of debt was only 12.6 million dinars at that time, and now with interest, it has grown to 56 million dinars. I don't understand, once again, so I ask the prime minister who is familiar with this problem, and the finance minister, who will be responsible for this and will be punished by the IRS, because the court finally found that they were working illegally? What is the biggest problem, what will be done now, that the municipality of Topol and its citizens would not suffer because of the illegality in the work of the Tax Administration, because the work and functioning of the municipal administration are difficult, the achievement of the budget, because of the forced collection now made by the Tax Administration to cover or cover, if I may say so, my mistake? What she did on a political basis in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and to wash herself, the same people who are sitting in the IRS today are making amends in this way, trying to save themselves. For this reason, I clearly ask the Minister of Finance to answer me in writing, who are the guilty and what will be done against them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36464	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36465	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the National Assembly, the Municipality of Sjenica has more than 4.5 thousand registered agricultural holdings, whose main activity is agriculture. Most of the income they make through agriculture. The biggest incentive for the development of agriculture in this area has been made by the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture by identifying significant means to encourage and increase agricultural products both quantitatively and qualitatively. It's that program that this country has at all. I am of the opinion, and that is the view that this area is one of the most migratory areas in the Republic of Serbia, which also confirms the last census by which about 30% of the population had fewer people compared to the previous census in the Shadow region than it was before. Incentive measures in agriculture are the hope that this trend in agricultural production will stop or at least slow down these migrations that occur in all parts of our country, but are indeed markedly expressed in the region of Peshter. In 2014, there was a problem that counterfeit fertilizer bills had emerged on the basis of which people applied to the Ministry of Agriculture for subsidies in this area. Since the Shadow Community is one of the largest in the Republic of Serbia with the worst infrastructure and very small number of agricultural pharmacies and shops, which deal with the sale and repro-materials necessary for agricultural production, especially wartime, mechanics, smugglers and frauds, have misused such a situation in the municipality and driven fertilizer trucks to the manufacturer, unloaded in their fields and peasants along the way, giving pre-prepared counterfeited accounts, a case of blocks that people took, assuming that everything was fully correct and applied to the request for the delivery of subsidies and handed over to the vault. When certain farmers were supposed to charge the milk premiums, the bank told me there was no money in their account and they referred us to the reasons in the vault. In the vault, they were told that their holdings were put in a standstill for the next three years, but the reasons why they didn't tell them, they said they were waiting for a report from the Ministry of Agriculture. People were anxious to ask what had happened and learned that their landowners had been put in a state of rest because they had delivered unregulatory manure bills. Then people turned to those who sold artificial fertilizer, and then it was found that it was really one part of the account that got faked and that it had no cover. Some producers bought artificial fertilisers in registered shops with the same seller and received a fully regulated account, but their holdings were also placed in a standstill. Knowing that they were doing everything, they asked for an insight into their documentation and were shocked by the fact that their cases contained accounts that they had not submitted. They have already been replaced by counterfeited accounts, as they claim, under quotes, and their holdings have been placed in a state of rest. Detailed insight into the documentation found that nearly 260 households were placed in the Svenica municipality in the state of rest, causing an irreparable financial loss to farmers in the area. I would therefore like the most kindly to ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture to educate the commission, in order to determine the truth, which would be the people they choose. We propose, of course, to someone from the Ministry of Agriculture Spectrums, someone from the municipality, including some producers who will be tasked with establishing, as soon as possible and within the shortest time, what is true and that temporarily extinguished landowners are allowed to collect subsidies and under the jurisdiction that the state gives, or immediately stoning the solution on putting land in a state of rest, if appropriate conditions are found. If these people lose subsidies, given the extremely low prices of agricultural products, especially milk will be forced to put out their households and, like so many of them, from this area, with the undertaking, the path of the West takes a search for bread for itself and for its children. With this we ask the Minister of Agriculture to set aside a few hours of his time and talk to them, receive these people to consider the situation with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36466	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36467	Thank you, Madam President. All my questions will be directed to the Prime Minister and to individual ministers. So, all questions go to the Prime Minister, and according to the cabinets and ministers. The first question is for the Minister of Business and Prime Minister. When 10,000 cars "Fiat" will be exported from the factory to Kragujevac, to Russia. We've been listening for years that this job has been done, that Putin has accepted the first tranch of a Kragujevac car for Russia, but can't really be achieved. "Fiat" is currently not working, workers are on a forced vacation, because there is not enough work and certainly it would be important for a large market like Russia to be restarted, production, so my question is directed to the Prime Minister when his agreement with Vladimir Putin will finally be reached to start the first 10,000 car tranche from Kragujevac to Russia. The second question, as I said, of the Prime Minister and of the Minister of Agriculture, when will the residual subsidies be paid to agricultural producers? Some of our colleagues say the Prime Minister allegedly did not know that the agricultural budget was reduced and that he was not responsible. If that's true, he should resign. I believe that he also knew that he was responsible for this and that farmers were denied the subsidies that followed them, since the budget did not provide for sufficient resources and it is necessary to rebalance the budget and I believe that this rebalancing is necessary as soon as possible. So the question for the agriculture minister is whether she sent the government a proposal for budget rebalancing and asking for new funds to be paid to farmers in full. Also, the new issue for the agriculture minister is that, when the Agrarian Payments Agency, i.e. the Agrarian Payments Authority, will be accredited, so that it can implement the IPARD programme. In a situation where the Republic of Serbia's budget unreally reduces subsidies to agricultural producers, it would certainly be important to withdraw as much funds from the EU as possible. At this point, it's about 60m euros that we can withdraw for 2014 and 2015, but we're not doing it, because the Agrarian Payments Authority is not yet accredited. So when will the Agrarian Payments Authority finally be accredited to be able to use IPARD funds? Next question to the prime minister, when will the backlog of maternity and pregnant women finally be paid? So, the prime minister boasts that we have a record low deficit in the budget this year, and unfortunately, it is achieved because it is due both to maternity and pregnant women. It is the least said unscrupulous, boasting of such results, that the most vulnerable and most vulnerable categories in society should be denied for what they have under the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36468	Is anyone else picking up? The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36469	Madam President, I'll ask you two questions. And this school year began without more than half of the textbooks and textbooks being provided in primary schools in the Albanian language in Presevo Valley, and no adequate textbook in Albanian is provided in secondary schools. With current dynamics, this very important and sensitive problem will not be solved in the next 10 years, which, with the problem of recognising Kosovo university diplomas, is very negatively reflected and contributes to drastic degradation and total degradation of the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. In a difficult situation like this, the Kosovo Ministry of Education made a donation of 100,000 textbooks to all students in these schools in early September. However, trucks with textbooks since September 9th are still in a border crossing terminal near Presevo. I ask the question of the minister of education, what will he do with this donation from the Kosovo Ministry and why no positive practice is applied, used in the period 2003 to 2007, when special solutions by the ministers of education, the use of textbooks and manuals, issued in Pristina, for most teaching subjects. I also refer the second question to the minister of education, and it concerns the recognition of Kosovo diplomas. Namely, following a decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia to declare an unconstitutional Brussels agreement on the recognition of Kosovo's higher education documents from 2011, instead of the government's 2012 regulation, a new regulation was adopted in November 2014. For a year and a half, however, it has not yet continued to recognise these diplomas in one process that was otherwise at the initial stage. Meanwhile, the issue has been discussed again in Brussels, while members of the Kosovo delegation have made public information that an agreement has been reached on these very sensitive issues, and so far no member of the Serbian delegation has provided any explanation on the subject. In addition to a large number of young Albanians who graduated from Kosovo universities and are awaiting a procedure of nostrification of higher education documents, the problem of doctors who ended up specialising in the Clinical Centre in Pristina, whose work licenses were issued in 2010. At the end of last year, however, the Serbian Medical Chamber informed these specialists that they had to nosetrificate diplomas, and on the other hand they couldn't do it, because of the problem I had just presented, so we already have a case of specialists, physicists, doctors at the Presevo House of Health, who lost the right to work as a specialist in this health home because of the unresolved problem, and so I ask this second question, in terms of demands or requests, which was sent to the ministry to explain the content of the latest agreement reached in Brussels as soon as possible, and even more specifically, when will this agreement finally begin?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36470	The word has the People's MP Alexander Jovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36471	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I would like to ask two questions to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The first question is: when does the government plan to take steps to prevent the province's government from misusing the APV budget and finance the Democratic Party from this budget and will most likely finance the future campaign that we all expect in our province, of course in local self-government? Why do I say that? If you can read one affair these days that we've all come up with and she's out in public, and that's the Hetherland castle affair, and when you say castle, it's not some castle that's been built I don't know who, but it's been built for children distracted in development, who have special needs. One hundred and seven million dinars got someone out of that project and we don't have any more and we don't know any more of that money and whose pockets it ended up in. Imagine when children are also stolen and robbed in one part of our country. That's why I demand that the investigation be conducted and see where that money is. It's not the only affair. There were, of course, fictitious contracts for the withdrawal of money for party personnel of the former regime. Also, the Development Fund, in conjunction with the Vojvodina Development Bank, if we think of major pompous announcements that our economy will rise in the province, and current Prime Minister APV said that 3.4 billion will stand out for the development and rise of our economy. If we do an analysis and see that 104 credit agreements have only been concluded, where 1.4 billion dinars have been singled out, we ask the question to investigate it and to announce to the public where two billion dinars of money have been reported by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our people? It's not a small amount of money. It's just what's public knowledge and where there's already some evidence, where the prosecution should react. We want an honest answer and that the truth finally comes out and that we know where the state money is, who spent it, who gambled it, and why we have today in the AP Vojvodina's weakest economy, and they promised to do miracles. Also, what is important and that is another question – when citizens can expect, of course, that everything is in accordance with the law, in the fastest time of the elections in both the AP Vojvodina and the local self-government, because because of these affairs, in the absence of political ideology, in the absence of honesty and accountability, and only in the purpose of preserving our position, we have Bojan Pajtic, who in every possible way that he has written down lies, affairs, which, of course, in some domain and destabilising our country, wants to stay at all costs in the chair, because he has been used to it for almost two decades. That's why we're asking that question. If we see how money is drawn through various associations to fund campaigns, then we have to have these elections as soon as possible and I don't say it by heart, because as a citizen of this country, of course, I have a residence in one of the Belgrade municipalities, such as the Palilula municipality, where. Two session of the local parliament 500,000 euros was set aside for various associations, where money is pumped out of local self-government in preparation for the elections. What happened to that money? We also propose for the left coast of Palilula and for various underdeveloped parts of Belgrade sewerage network, infrastructure, and they have done nicely in the Padinska Skela, for example. Dejan Matic's concert, and then they brought Snowy to Ovec. Most people are not for those places most likely or heard they exist, but these are small places where several hundred or thousands of people live, and bring Dejan Matic, pay him safely. I have nothing against Dejan Matic, but what did it bring, or against Sneki, but what did it bring to the citizens of Padinska Skela, Ovče, Krgnac, Mad Fok, Vrbovski and other parts of the municipality? It didn't bring anything. It's your policy. So that the money will no longer be drawn, pumped into concerts and into our stars from the esthera, let's people discuss the election, let's do it responsibly, honestly, and make it a good thing for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36472	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36473	I'm asking a question, I don't know who to ask in the government, here, let's say the Minister of Industry, how does he comment that every municipality in which the SNS is in power has a complete Grand production run through the budget? My question for Minister Rasim Ljajic and Minister Vulin is how do they explain that yesterday, on the Day of Liberation of Kruševac and Nis, in World War II, I repeat, 71 years after World War II, why did Mayor Perisic and Minister Gasic in Krusevec lay their crowns and why on the monument of the fallen World War I? Is it because our ministry didn't find it appropriate to find a better location, or do we simply not have a monument? The next question is why is it not published in the APR bulletin for the economy minister Sertic, and originally it was not printed and it was not published, that the number of employees in large enterprises in 2014 was reduced by, respected citizens, 126.181 employed, since in 2013 it was 430.789 and in the past 304.608, while in medium and business companies it was slightly smaller and measured by index 96 or absolute figures 199.000 workers in the previous year? In the total of all jobs, the reduction in the number of employees decreased and amounted to a total of 18,839 between 2013 and last year, while the number of companies decreased by about 2,000. These are data from the APR, which for an unknown reason, which I would like the minister to answer to me, has not been printed and has not been published. A large number of citizens appear, respected Minister Vulina, with a question – why is it that she insists that through the records for employed people they must engage in work and why social and social giving are placed in the market category and as long as you think you are doing so, especially the threatened rights of Roma, these are further trampled and impoverished, so I don't understand what your projection is when we know that for tens of thousands of Serbian citizens in the last year and a half fell below the poverty line, over 20,000 people in the last year alone? We are growing the number of homeless people in Serbia, the number of forms from Vulin's ministry is growing, absolutely nothing is improving in that sense, in addition to all your propaganda activities. What I also wanted to ask Prime Minister Vukic, Minister Dacic and Mark 5.0 Đuric, so the first question is – when did you learn about the conditions that appeared in the amendment to Chapter 35? What date, what year? In what particular way is it contrary to the Brussels Agreement you signed? The most important question, in what way will the state and our diplomacy in the coming period act to correct this foreign-political fiasco that the government has experienced, the largest after Rambuje and the International Court of Justice's opinion on Kosovo's independence? In any case, we are a state where public information means that we have an increase in employees. You're being denied by life. We have a fall of employees in Serbia. Statistics deny you, we have a fall. We have a decrease in income, even though you've raised all taxes. That's why I ask again, Minister Vujovic, I've never had an absolute response from the government, the Honored President, to any question I've asked in the last six months. Why doesn't the Government, the Prime Minister's question, answer questions, even if it doesn't, at least formally, even if it does, in any way, why don't you answer the MPs' questions? That's amazing. So, will you talk to Minister Vujovic, the IMF, to make a moratorium to pay off external debt both for us and for other Western Balkan countries, which would make the state more than a billion euros for the necessary reforms? Will you introduce new taxes, for example, to churches and religious communities, thus providing over 140m euros and making it impossible to further reduce the anti-constitutionally and illegally to our pensioners? In what way will you provide new jobs, Minister Sertic, if Serbia has deindustrized these days?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36474	Thank you. Is anyone else answering to ask a question, or is he asking for a notice? (No) Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs: Momo Colaković, Miroljub Stankovic, Nada Lazic, Vladimir Marinkovic and Gordana Komic. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on item 1 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW. I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure Miodrag Poledica and Dr Dejan Trifunović, State Secretary at the Ministry, and Nenad Tomovic and Saša Stojanovic, acting as ministerial assistant. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and the government's opinion of the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36475	Respected Serbian citizens, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, I also tried in principle to explain in dialogue with the minister, her associates and with you, dear colleagues, my position and attitude of the DS parliamentary group, which is related to all the failures in the adoption of this law, which is related to all the failures concerning the implementation of the previous 2013 law. Clearly, our attitude is partly appreciated, or that you did not understand all the messages we sent that day. We tried to fix this bill with a proposal, more than 20 amendments, but only four proposals were accepted. I'm going to try today in the debate to fight for the support of these proposals that I'm going to talk about and try to try to, even though we're aware it's impossible with twenty-something amendments to fix a bad law, to make some big contribution, but it's ours to try. In this first article, we felt that there was too much reason in this second view that it was irrelevant and that it was too high to explain in previous opinions what is important for this article. The government and the ministry have rejected this proposal and this suggests that they have not taken our proposal seriously enough, or have considered our proposal. I think in later discussions, in order not to waste time on amendments now, we'll be able to explain all the suggestions. I'm sorry this proposal hasn't been adopted, but I hope that others will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36476	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36477	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this amendment is concerned and the motion of fellow Members of Parliament are concerned, it is obvious that we have entered into a serious process, the rail restructuring process, and that this process implies a change of terminology. We've already created two companies, a goods transport company, passenger transport. Simply, your proposal is not in the spirit of this law and all the future measures that will be taken will likely be selective in terms of transport and passenger traffic, because the volume of passenger traffic itself is significantly lower than those of the EU countries, compared to freight traffic, so I say, therefore, the measures that will most often be in the area of subsidies and help to a much greater extent include passenger traffic. It is necessary that, for the sake of further improvement of this legislative legislation, we already make this transition and this difference between passenger and goods traffic, because that is also the essence of all that is done, the essence of all these changes proposed by the Ministry and the Government of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36478	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36479	I expected that the respected minister after Mr Antic's presentation, when he said that all future measures would be selective, will react and correct this statement, but it is obvious that she agrees with this statement and it is obvious that this may be an essential way of thinking of this government and you as a majority, about how this law should apply in the coming period. In fact, this Article 2 is very important. There are over 35 points that explain its application and its essence. In some 6-7 points, we tried to remove some shortcomings and propose another formulation, but unfortunately, some of these proposals were partially accepted. First, point 1) says that city railways, i.e. city railways with special traffic and technical characteristics, etc. So, the term "features" that used to be replaced with "charts" and we agree that this is a better formulation, but we also say that it is an excess formulation, and in this part that starts with the word "special traffic-technical characteristics". If you don't say in this bill what are the special features, then it's an excessive formulation and it can lead to confusion. In point 13), this issue of seriousness may be fundamentally raised when you proposed in 2013 a law which you yourself admitted in the debate that was bad, that it had bad effects, that the number of passengers was reduced, that the number of passengers and the volume of goods were reduced, that the effects of this law were bad, and that you admitted through the proposal 45 points of amendment of this law that in fact this law was not good. This case shows all the surface and maybe the speed you've been doing this law. So they're not respected procedures, they're not respectful. I agree that at this point where the infrastructure belt is determined is a bad term by "calculating" that you have replaced, but it is also a bad and proposed verb "measured". I found it strange how you put such a bad formula of an imperfect vision verb in this context, and I tried to find the same terms in later members, or if you changed those formulas and then I concluded the following. In Article 13(3) and 34), in Article 4, you use this wording ‘measured’, and then at one point I thought that the addition of that verb should be attached, i.e. the replacement ‘he’, i.e. in the third person ‘ga’, means ‘measured it’, which is a far better formulation than it was. In article 58, I saw you use the term “measuredly. ” So that says, and you have some other members, I think there's 49, I don't know exactly which, where you're again using the term "calculating" to determine some distance, let's say, in this case belt, protective, etc., or some other similar terms. You use an hour of one, an hour of another word, and you fully derivate this law, or you show all the unseriousness in access when you've been doing this law. I'm glad you accepted some of our suggestions, some of the amendments we've made, but that's not enough. I would today, as Honorable colleague Jovanovic said, that he is happy when you accept some amendments to him, I do not know if I am looking forward to it, rather than saying that I am saddened that in this way you are proposing many bad solutions in the law and saying that you believe that the application of this law, or all of these members that you are changing, will contribute to making the law better, more efficient and to meet certain goals. So, next in this Article, at point 21, we first mentioned this topic about licenses. I think the earlier proposal is also about this point 21, but also the members of the law in the earlier proposal 10, 11, 12, 20, etc. which speaks of licences, that these things had to remain in the bill, i.e. inadmissible that in this bill you deleted the possibility of licensing and you transferred jurisdiction to this new company, infrastructure and gave it enormous powers. You've managed to question procedures by eradicating these members, questioning security. If you've deleted licensing as a process and procedure in this law, then you're giving some monopoly, giving someone control, at the same time that system, and at the same time the ability to prescribe rules, to exercise control and to judge. I know that a lot of investment in this area of infrastructure has been planned in the coming period and I know that there are employees of SNS personnel, especially in the time of Mr Simonovic, but this is an inadmissible process. Furthermore, at point 27, we have again pointed out that in the public transport obligations of passengers, you have left out this term referred to in Articles 2 and 3, which is the transport of goods, I do not know for what reason. We made a suggestion to remain also point 28, point 32, as a better solution than what was offered, etc. So, at 35a. You say -- goods mean things that are transported in rail and goods traffic, also bad formulations. There are a few more gaps and I'm not spending any more time at this point expecting the minister's answer, so let's open the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36480	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36481	You've said so much. It seems like you haven't read the law again, but I understand we're here to explain. First of all, there is no public transport obligation for goods, this is the marketing category we have only in the transport of passengers. It is very clear that in the case of infrastructure there is a certificate relating to the whole network, and in the transport of passengers we have licences and certificates. And, somehow, it's just that you don't need to talk to me about security and whether or not we questioned the safety issue in the railways because we inherited the railroad. To remind once again of Serbian lawmakers and citizens, who went 30km an hour with trains over 40 years old, with a network of over 40 years old, and if something wasn't safe it wasn't safe, and today the railway infrastructure is being modernised, new trains are coming today. Yesterday, one of the 21 “stedler” trains went to Nis in his test drive. Furthermore, this government never said the 2013 law was bad. So, I don't know where you heard that, but to think that it's better, first of all, to improve this law, given that this is living matter and that this is a matter that is constantly improving and that it's improving in the EU, I don't see any reason why we can't do as much as we can and improve the situation in transport, especially in rail transport. It may stand for DS time, but as far as this government is concerned, we are not wasting our time and we are really doing everything to lift the railway to one higher level than it was and how we inherited it, and it is sad, or sad, that we inherited it, and I believe that we will have one complete, but now we have one completely different and rail infrastructure and businesses and workers themselves, first of all, who work there. Also, it's very interesting...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36482	Answer time, two minutes. Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36483	Dear Minister, you also told me in principle that I had not read the law, and my answer was, I was probably reading it a little bit more than you, seeing a lot of shortcomings and a lot of failures. One of the reasons why I suggested that instead of formulating that the minister lays down certain rules, to regulate regulations, I suggested that it be a ministry, because I see you're very busy seeing that probably these failures that are proposed are the consequences of your time. When you say I haven't read the law, then there's another big dilemma again, how is it possible that you've adopted four amendments to a man who hasn't read the law and suggested 20 and some amendments? It's insulting people's intelligence. That's one thing. Secondly, in the principle debate, you have repeatedly made it very easy, very, very, very clear to me, that you have found no idea what state of rail from DS, and then by your contribution and very dedicated work, you have led the railways today in Serbia, that trains in Serbia go over 100 kilometers an hour, but you just didn't say where? About Paracinos, maybe, about the Young Man, maybe, but that's 10, 20 kilometers. Everything else is the same and everything else is worse. When you say you didn't say it was a bad law, that you didn't say it was a bad law, if the 2013 law you applied for a year and a half, there are 111 members, and you change 45 members, and you say in an explanation that the reason for the change is that you have less transportation of passengers, less transport of goods, poor effects of the application of that law, you just change some members in terms of some grammatical changes, lexic, language, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36484	Thanks, time's up. The word is Dr. Zorana Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36485	For the sake of the public, just for the record, what we've accepted and otherwise I know that any amendment that can improve the law, even if that's the point, point, point, at least the words or characteristics of another trait or vice versa, however, I'm willing to accept it. What, for your information, that's right, we inherited a poor railroad from you. Now it's already finished 65 kilometers of railway that's been modernised to an average of 120 kilometers per hour, from the 30, as long as it was when you were. Otherwise, now the modernisation of three shares in the southern part of Corridor 10 begins and in a year we will modernise the 130km railway line, with an average of 120km per hour. Yeah, there's a big difference, just in a year and a half. It's not enough, but it'll certainly be more in the next two, three years. So don't compare yourself to what you've been doing for 10 years and what we've done in a year and a half. If I were you, I'd keep my mouth shut, but if you want to be constructive, be. That's why we've looked at the amendments you've given, and really everything we've been able to accept, to make it even better, we've accepted, as we always have. That's the difference between this government and this side of the SNS and you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36486	Don't get up, I didn't give you my word. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. We'll go back to you, discuss the amendment. He's only staying for the amendment. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: Is my right to reply?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36487	He's been going into somebody's account for ten seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, a brief return to the amendment. So you certainly know that we disagree that the debate is spreading beyond what really is the subject of this debate, so in that sense I will not go out to meet the obvious desire to discuss everything here today except what the promoter himself put into what he wanted to explain looks like. With all that we're going to discuss today, we're probably going to leave some of the next amendments for then. As for this proposal to amend Article 2. I will refer to that assessment that there is some indication of unseriousness here, the likely treatment of amendments by the promoters should reflect a certain lack of seriousness. This is an interesting question, and I ask the opposite question – is it possible to criticise that some changes are proposed primarily in a lexic way, and then propose with the amendment a bunch of synonyms, or is it possible to measure the seriousness of the obvious effort of the promoter, as well as the majority that supports this law, to manage high standards and to manage precision? I call on the amendment promoter to look at the response received by the Government, and it is enough to keep only two details, on paragraph number two and regular number four, so what he himself characterised as a misunderstanding as to why something controversial is related to point 27 of point 2 in the reasoning is very clear – standards, ladies and gentlemen, standards and what is proposed by the amendment does not respect good European practice and standards unlike what is proposed in the text of the law. The same goes for point 38. When we talk about whether it intervenes on laws that are bad or which are good, it is possible to work over and over again both in continuity and in the laws that we consider good. It's called compliance with standards. It's a process that works continuously. It's how in that community that we look up to and agree with, it's so natural for us. Secondly, the fourth paragraph of the reasoning – is it or is it not appropriate to have special technical conditions for what we have characterized as a museum? Of course, it is logical that what technological constraints are related exclusively to the period during which such systems were created must be respected as a fact that we can only establish and as such support legally. These two reasons are more than enough for the entire amendment not to be accepted, which I recommend for my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36488	Here's to the amendment. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. You didn't get a replica. He can't or can't. We're not at the market. So you don't want the amendment. Thank you. The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, submitted to the 2nd amendment. He's not here. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36489	Dear fellow MPs, I have just wanted to point out some things that are about my commitment and, as the minister says, constructive approach in response to the honourable minister and colleague Orlic. Through these amendments I wanted to contribute to the improvement of this legislative proposal and precisely, Mrs Mihajlović, on this case a selective approach to solving the problem when you suggested that four special societies be established in this law without the previous denominations of these societies tell us how superficial this was and how unserious this was. I don't know if you have any information about what's going on at the Railways right now on the whole kidnapping of space, cars, computers and all the other stuff that's going on. So in this article I opened that topic -- terms -- counting, which I said earlier, they were bad. Our proposal is – measured in the belt, etc. You accepted it when it was a good suggestion. What opens up here through the discussion are the failures that occurred both in the application of the previous law and in the proposal for this law. You yourself admitted that there were no effects in the application of the 2013 law. Now you're criticizing me for not keeping my mouth shut. Well, you're criticizing the unions that told you that this was all a quick conclusion, and you're gonna regret it. Why are you asking all of us to keep quiet about something that's obviously bad?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36490	National MPs together Borislav Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorović and Jovan Marković, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Božović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vuković submitted the 4th amendment. Is anyone picking up? The word is Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36491	Dear Minister, we felt that the formulation in the previous 2013 bill was better. We didn't understand why this term was rejected -- a public company if it is considered that there is a possibility to be through tenders in the next period, through the bad procedures offered by this law, etc. there is no solution that some companies can negotiate business with the state, with the government, or with the Railway, and we felt it is very important to pay attention to this member, especially given that competition has not yet been built, that your attempt to break up the monopoly in this area is not with a clear plan, that there is no clear vision of how you will solve these problems and that you have declared that public transport in this area is of public interest. So we felt that at least in the transitional period you must keep these terms, and I see that in some other members you have accepted certain amendments and proposals from my colleagues, but the essence of our proposals was to keep this article in front of words – a company of capital that is established and operated in accordance with the law, etc., leave a term – a public enterprise or, in the follow-up, society, as you have already formulated this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36492	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Mihajlović, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry and respected National Assembly President Mrs. Gojkovic, please include this electronic device for mathematical operations in order to measure the five minutes I have the right to change time. So now I have seven minutes to talk about this amendment. Is that okay? It's on. Bravo. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, we have submitted a total of four amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways. Of the four amendments submitted, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry, they were accepted to hear the SNS MPs first of all here, three amendments, gentlemen of honor. Three-quarters of the amendments submitted here have been accepted and, of course, it is a great result for a national MP, who is committed to his work in the legislative body. I mean a small victory here not only of the opposition's MPs, but of Parliamentarianism, gentlemen. Here I would like to add, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, to this amendment and one more piece of information that in this year and a half, counting on these four amendments that we have submitted, we Parliamentarians of the New Party have submitted 1.533 amendments in total, gentlemen. Of these 1.533 amendments, it has been accepted, gentlemen, by 119 amendments. Bravo. It's so respected, gentlemen, but when we transfer it to percentages, gentlemen, it's 7.76% of the accepted amendments of the People's MPs of the New Party. Now, gentlemen, if, by some analogy of this percentage, we transfer to support in the electoral body, that means that a year and a half was enough for us to provide support to the electoral body of 7.76%. And to say good-bye here, gentlemen. Mrs. Mihajlović, here's to tell you, that perhaps the Prime Minister, if he does not listen to this debate, you can tell him, right now, we're ready for the election. With this starting position of 7.76, held by the New Party, Mrs Mihajlovic, we are ready for an extraordinary parliamentary election. Let the Prime Minister finally resign, to go to the election, and let's win a little bit of us, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36494	Ambassador, it's great what you said, but just come back to this amendment, because we're just talking about amendments today, and you'll get a transitional grade. Just get back to matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36495	Your Honor, I've learned, not to the transitional, but to the highest grade. I'm asking you to correct yourself now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36496	Sure, but go back to matter now, just like this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36497	That's right, this is an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways. With this amendment, here, that I may now inform the Members of Parliament who may not have read so carefully what is contained in all the amendments submitted, we have suggested that Mrs. Mihajlović and her associates and associates be added in one piece, in one position, one stuck, gentlemen. That was our amendment. Mrs. Mihajlovic has accepted this amendment, dear gentlemen, because she believes that when we write the laws we must strictly adhere to the spelling and grammar of our Serbian language, gentlemen. But, look, I think it's really worth the praise that this amendment has been accepted here. Here, I say Mrs. Mihajlović - bravo! Why? Because additional precision, gentlemen, is the clarification of something that is legal matter only means orientation, the Honorable President, you're a lawyer, you certainly understand it best, to respect one of the most important principles of our Constitution, and we all know here what the principle is, gentlemen. This is the principle of rule of law, defined by Article 3 of our Constitution. When we accept such an amendment, with such an amendment, we actually declare that we are committed, that we want to be attached to this great principle, the principle of rule of law, which is the fundamental assumption of our Constitution, which rests on the fact that every authority complies with the Constitution and the law. I then ask Mrs. Mihajlović, perhaps in one address, to remind the MPs of the party whose member she is, that when they discuss here they do not ignore the importance of these amendments, and Mr. Markovic, and Mr. Babic, and Mrs. Rakic, and Mr. Atlagic, as well as the other gentlemen to remind him here. A single indication of the interaction can greatly change what is contained in one law - making position. The fact that it has been accepted here today for this amendment means for me to be directed towards the rule of law, even if it is related to one of the positions of one member of the bill, which we are discussing here, the esteemed presidents of the National Assembly. But I must now take this opportunity, on the occasion of the amendment to Article 6, to tell Mrs. Mihajlovic, despite the fact that, of course, it is commendable when the amendment that directs us to the rule of law, that we do not forget, Mrs. Gojkovic, and some kind of action that has not been commendable for Mrs. Mihajlović. Mrs. Mihajlovic, we can't forget to bury the early Christian basilica at the White Palanca. She's buried...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36498	Ambassador, I begged you not to mix grandmothers and frogs, and you persistently...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36499	I have to, the Honorable Minister is visiting us and now I'm missing the chance to remind her of something she's not...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36500	She's very often here in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36501	Yeah, and I always remind her. And just one more thing, on our bill of planning and arrangement of space and settlements, the whole law, 200 pages... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36502	I have to shut you down because you're talking about everything except what you need to talk about. You've been accepted an amendment, but it's lost in all of this. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the National MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Does anyone want to talk? (No) He's not here. Thank you. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Borislav Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorović and together Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Božović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36503	Dear citizens of Serbia, in this proposal, we have put a special emphasis on the issue of licensing and withdrawal of licences, transfer of competence, transfer of obligations, transfer of control, transfer of control concerning further management of this system. We felt it was good for those members to remain 10, 11 and 12, and all the parts of the law regarding the licence and regarding the supervision and management of this area. Especially the first position, i.e. all the views in Article 12 that speak, I will read only the first position, which says – the Railway Directorate checks all 12 months, or every 12 months whether the infrastructure manager meets the requirements of Article 10. etc. So I think it's inadmissible and it's devastating that with the creation of new companies, which are in the field, which are founded without plans and concepts, and the claim that this is also the fact that the deobligation process is only started when it comes out with this concept, that employees in all these companies and societies don't know any further status at all, they don't know their obligations, and that at this point the rail system is left to itself is just telling themselves how superficially this process has been done. We felt it was inadmissible that the license issue would remain unarranged, i.e. that the business would be transferred to those who would manage this system, to prescribe regulations, to control etc. We felt that the Railways Directorate should remain as a key part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as an institution that will control this process, and according to this proposal, all this is being abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36504	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36505	Thank you. I'd like to ask for a little help on your part. Is this about an amendment to Article 6?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36506	Article 9.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36507	Nine, good. Thank you. It seemed to me that, just a moment ago, by amendment to Article 4, we were actually having an argument on Article 6, so just so that we synchronised on this point. As for the amendment to a member under regular number nine, I would like to call again on the argument we received from the government. I think that the argument was very exhaustive, very precise and clear to the first part, to the very conclusion of the first sentence – the issue of licensing of infrastructure managers is not foreseen by EU regulations. If we can't argue with this, I don't think there's really a need to deal with proposals going the other way today, if we need to spend another minute on whether this is said or not. If this is true, let's be open to the end, then is there any need to go in the opposite direction of the one that implies compliance with high standards? Everything else is explained, later in support of the argument. Is something missed elsewhere under this law, if we don't adopt this amendment, we're going to miss something in a decent way and all the other open questions have a space dedicated to them in certain members of the law, but I think this is an essential question. Are we in line with the standards or do we think we don't need them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36508	Thank you. On the 10th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Borislav Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorović and together Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Božović, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36509	Dear citizens of Serbia, and this article is also about this very issue of standards, and we want to open this dilemma as much as this Government and this Ministry have been committed to making laws and how much facts have actually been overcome, that is how badly the functioning of railways and these systems has been pushed aside and how much, in fact, under the pretext of the adoption of standards and the adoption of the directive together and the harmonisation of the directive together with the European directives, is actually being made here of failure and oversight. I am sorry that this amendment that we have submitted has not been adopted, but it speaks of the good will of the ruling majority, to commit itself to this problem and to solve the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36510	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36511	Respected citizens of Serbia, and this amendment, that is, this member speaks of superficiality, indifference and accession in the adoption of this law. I think perhaps the good will, Madam Minister, and the explanation that I will give will affect the acceptance of this amendment, because it is essential to bring the text in this article into line. It is said here that, it says: the statement on the network, in particular, contains general provisions, conditions for access and use of railway infrastructure, a review of traffic and technical characteristics, and I agree again that the term “feature” was bad and that “characteristics” was better. Railway infrastructure, below, which is on, so it says: availability and restrictions in use. At the same time, there is talk of the availability, as something planned in the future, the availability of resources, and the follow-up without a point, without a score, without any explanation, it is said: and restrictions in use, and nowhere does it indicate what restrictions they are. Well, you can't in one sentence, at the same time, talk about the future and continue to deny that same future. Therefore, I do not think that this article is clear, that there are many stylish shortcomings that we can correct and rightly propose to change the order of these terms, as we have said, to delete the word "limiting" that we have made our contribution to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36512	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36513	Thank you, Madam President, I appreciate that this is a classic misunderstanding. This is actually a question of whether there is a possible situation in which something can, but under certain conditions, anything in this world. We'll agree that there's absolutely a possible situation, we meet them on a daily basis. The availability, with certain limitations, is literally everything. So, it's not about any illogicalness or opposing attitudes, it's about the term "limit" just as a guide to certain conditions, under which something is possible. I believe it's another misunderstanding, and the big words and criticism, to leave for a second chance, it's still a technical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36514	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36515	Well, you colleagues take it all down to some technical procedure, and yet you don't give it up, not just our proposals, but this bill, but that's what it says about you. This amendment, which we have submitted, first of all, refers to specific deadlines, because we think it is always good to specify the deadlines for certain procedures, when the law is passed, so that the processes discussed here can be monitored, so that they can apply certain measures etc. So, in the proposal earlier, Article 21 concerned, among other things, that the Railways Directorate, that it was obliged to decide, in a specific complaint, within ten days. That member, i.e. that position, is deleted here, but in the further proposal that you made to this member, there are no deadlines, and I thought it was good that in the last position, it means in the formulation - when the applicant requests, for the assignment of the train route, he can object to the Railway Directorate, etc., that in the final part, it is said that, as if he is not satisfied with the procedure of assigning the train route and its outcome, instead of saying "in order to pay the fee", he says "seven days after paying the tax at the level of the administrative ban, or the fee charged for the complaint to the authority". I think that in this case, too, it is clear that if there are no deadlines, if you leave undefined these terms, we can come into a situation that the applicant of this complaint submits his complaint after two, or after three months of some process, or response, or the solutions that he has received or after four months, then the question is whether the procedure which he is subject to is in order, or whether he has the right to suspend certain procedures or processes that he has received after the solutions he has received. So, setting a deadline when he's filing a payment fee is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36516	Thank you. The word has Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36517	Once again, thank you very much, first of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for that evaluation that we started the discussion with, according to this amendment, that of dealing with technical matters and declaring some questions for technical, respecting techniques, as such, probably speaking more about those of us who do. Technical precision for me is absolutely not the thing to be understood as something bad, so thank you in that sense. As far as self-respecting is concerned, of course no one does, but some proposals, unfortunately, by their quality, deserve a certain treatment, nothing else. Let's get back to accuracy and standards. The explanation we received from the government, once again, is something or is it not recognizable in EU regulations? Motivation number one, motive number two, whether or not paying taxis is regulated by the relevant Republic Law on Administrative Taxes. If we can't respond to chronic discrepancies with standards, maybe we'd better change our approach not to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36518	Thank you. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Do you want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36519	Dear citizens of Serbia, this member and our amendment that we have submitted concerns resolving disputes and problems. We believe that the formulation contained in this article, which has been proposed by the ministry, which says the issue of disputes is being resolved on a timely basis, is an inadmissible general formulation that can again bring various problems in the application of this proposal. We have asked that in the case of disputes, our formulation means that in the case of disputes brought to the allocation of infrastructure capacity, the dispute resolution system is provided to resolve such disputes in a timely manner. The decision shall be taken within ten working days, regardless of the objection and we believe that this formulation is indeed more precise, that it gives more opportunity to settle this dispute adequately in these possible complaints and relations concerning the bidders and ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36520	Thank you. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 18th amendment with the correction, MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Blagoja Bradić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36521	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, my dear Nishlia. Therefore, Article 19 refers to a part of the law that speaks of the construction and reconstruction of railway infrastructure. The legislator, the ministry and the government have proposed adding members of 49 to Article 19 relating to Article 49. until 49 years old. We have made amendments to these additional members of 49, which are essentially related to the maintenance and investment ratio of the requirements for opening new line crossings, overpasses, underpasses, where, I will read, the legislator says in Article 49a – if the crossing of railway infrastructure and road takes place at the request of local self-government, company or other legal person or entrepreneur, the cost of constructing an overpass, underpass, i.e. costs and installation of the device, devices and other costs of ensuring safe and uninterrupted traffic at the road crossing is borne by the management of the road infrastructure, i.e. the applicant. We have here suggested that the last part of this member, i.e. This part, i.e. the applicant, shall be deleted so that the costs are borne by the travel infrastructure manager, i.e. infrastructure manager. In Article 49b, the ministry proposed that it be said – at the request of the travel infrastructure manager, with the prior consent of infrastructure management, it adopts an act opening up a new, abolishing or reconstructing existing road crossings, if the gap between the two crossings of the railway infrastructure and times less than 2,000 metres, the process of abolishing the road crossing is carried out in a shortened procedure. It is our opinion, and this is what we have proposed by the amendment to ask for the opinion of the infrastructure manager instead of consent because, you will agree with me, the ministry cannot ask for consent, it is a roof institution in the whole process and it should seek opinion, it cannot depend whether the infrastructure manager wants to or does not want to give consent. He gives his opinion, and the ministry is who decides whether something will be or not. Article 49v which says – if the road crossing is replaced by the overpass, i.e. by the underpass or is abolished by the direction of the road, the costs incurred for that purpose on the railway infrastructure and the road, unless otherwise agreed by the infrastructure managers; means those who will run the railways, i.e. With stripes. Under two – travel infrastructure manager if this change is subject to the mostly road traffic needs, and on the road used by a largely defined undertaking, another legal entity or entrepreneur, the cost of changes on railway infrastructure and the road carries the whole of the company, the other legal person or entrepreneur. Here we have suggested in point 2, in point 2, that the road infrastructure manager, as he says, if this change is mostly conditioned by road traffic needs, there is a stop to wipe out the back part, so that the road infrastructure manager, it is costing out because it is a public good, and this part which says that the entrepreneur is costing on the rail infrastructure in whole or another legal person to delete, because we do not need to additionally burden the economy and to remove the whole last position that it says – in the case of all other crossover changes, including the adaptation and improvement of safety and other devices, the costs of changes on railway infrastructure and road from Article 1 of this article are borne by the common infrastructure manager, the travel infrastructure manager and the enterprise, the second legal person or entrepreneur relative to the needs of railway and road transport. That's what we're asking to erase, we've proposed, and the Ministry has replied that the amendment is not accepted because it refers to entities that need to bear the cost of building overpasses, underpasses, or road crossings with insurance devices, and that their relationships are regulated by the Law on Railways. The draft law fully covers these issues, i.e. all the stakeholders to whom the solution to that problem relates. I'm sorry, gentlemen of the ministry. We're asking for that to change. What did you say here in response? What did you say? To reject our law, our bill because you made the proposal? We're making a suggestion to change that, and I'll tell you why. Here's a classic example of the city of Nis. We're all talking about the need for an E-10 freeway, rail, road, road traffic to be a priority because it's a breadth of a housewife, Nis is the main hub. Nis kuburi with a request to move the railway line back decades. We have the decisions of the city's assembly, we have the citizens' opinion that the railway is destroying the city of Nis because it is divided into two halfs, but this authority and former director Simonovic, and you know it, has suggested that the town of Nis be temporarily electrified by the railway because it needs corridor E-10 to end quickly. Do you know what temporary means? They'll never move her. If that happens and if it happens, if you allow such a thing as a congregation majority, then the city of Nis will be divided into two cities, you'll make two cities because it's impossible in the city to provide 16 spring crossings that are at the level, that's impossible. This can happen very easily because we have an obligation because of the funds withdrawn from international financial institutions to complete the corridor within a given deadline. So I ask you to accept our proposal because we consider the maintenance costs, that it would be quality maintenance should also be borne by those who run roads in Serbia and those who run the railways in Serbia, that we do not get into a situation like you do in Nis that the City Construction Directorate does not have enough money, since it is a local traffic user, to pay for "The Railways", and "The Railways" unqualityly maintains, unqualityly because of the lack of funds maintenance of the local traffic crossing in the city. Then you have in the middle of the flight to drop your ramp and block the city for three hours. That is why we are asking for a change in this article, we insist that with the hope that you will accept our proposal and enable the city of Nis, and other local self-governments, because you personally have a problem with line crossings, that this goes to the level of those who use the railway, those who manage the roads, are meant by the roads of Serbia, I mean the highway routes, and that they maintain these railway crossings, at the very end of the line, it is also financed from the republican budget of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36522	Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished guests and guests from the ministry, respected National Assembly presidents, please just tell me if this electronic device for mathematical operations predicted that I was entitled to those five minutes that were scheduled for Mr. Zivkovic, because he was also the applicant of the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36524	No, I understood you two were personalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36525	Two personalities, but one party, the New Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36526	I'm happy about that. No, you spent yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36527	Okay, then two minutes tops. Here's the thing. We have submitted an amendment to Article 19. The amendment, of course, is always a proposal to amend and supplement the bill. We have tabled an explanation for this amendment, which contains an explanation of the proposed solution and the objective which is to be achieved by adopting the amendment. Mrs. Mihajlovic wrote us off that she could not accept this amendment. I then, honored gentlemen, read the explanation that came from the ministry and here to tell Mrs. Mihajlović, co-workers and associates, we accept the explanation and I think it was okay that this amendment was not accepted. Of course, I remind the SNS MPs that this is the only unacceptable amendment. The reason for the non-acceptance is indeed justified, I cannot declare everything there and if I would like to have some objection, but I remind you that this is the only non-acceptable of the four amendments submitted, which means that, honourable Members of the Members of the People of the SNS first and foremost to hear, of the four amendments submitted, three have been accepted, one is not for a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36528	Thank you. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to article 19. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On Article 19, accepted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36529	Respected citizens of Serbia, another example of the discrepancy of the proposal in the members of the law, which has created dilemmas among my co-workers, or colleagues from the DS parliamentary club, when reading the legal proposal. Very often here we have an intertwination of responsibility and a interference of jurisdiction. Sometimes the minister prescribes certain conditions, sometimes the ministry does. In Article 49, paragraph 5, I think, it is said that the gap between the two cross-border railway infrastructures, etc. determines in special and exceptional cases the Minister. Later in Article 49b, this applies to the ministry. With our amendment, we tried to make a proposal on how to solve this problem. We thank you for your good will in this case to honor our proposal. What is particularly important to highlight in our motives, which is why we have often asked that instead of the term minister use the terms of the ministry in the adoption of these legislative proposals and when proposing amendments. We wanted to help the minister, aware that she had very big problems, that she was engaged in several jobs. It also deals with infrastructure and traffic, both road and rail and air transport. He also deals with other ministries as Deputy Prime Minister. We are aware that this is probably the reason why he often makes gaffs, which is why very often causes problems in her statements, which is why there are very often statements that are offensive to people, which is why, for example, when she visited the helicopter highways, she did not see the Wet Gora...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36530	Ambassador, I'll interrupt you. The Minister doesn't have that problem that I have, and she really suffers and insults whatever you want, but I have to intervene. You either know or you don't know you're talking about the amendment. No one's allowed here to tell anything they want. You had a principle debate, you could talk about it, whatever you wanted, and amendments are a very specific matter. So either you know it or you don't know it. Your amendment has been accepted. Why is the word "minister" replaced by "minister" and that's all I'm going to tolerate, what you're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36531	I've got all this time. You're interrupting me, you're taking me a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36532	Absolutely, I've taken all the time until the end of the session, because I'm running this session and I'm trying to make something out of it, which makes me 99%, and you're going to be, the honourable MP, also very parliamentary to wait for you to hear my intervention and listen to it, so you don't run out of words under this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36533	I just wanted to explain the reasons why we proposed this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36534	You've moved into the zone of insult and persuasive expression, and I won't allow it, especially when it comes to women who are involved in politics. I just don't allow it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36535	Madam Chairman, I fully support your struggle to deal with women's rights and that is not disputed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36536	Well, show it to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36537	Madam Minister, on my case, made such guffs...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36538	Yes, and she's adopted your amendment. Thank you. We'll end the discussion now. Thank you for finding common ground. The 20th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36539	Dear citizens of Serbia, we have submitted an amendment to Article 20 that concerns the word "standard". So, after saying "standards", the point is replaced by a comma and the words are added, "which is prescribed by the Ministry". Madam Chairman, I just wanted to explain the reasons why I think it is very important for the Ministry to take responsibility and not only for the minister to deal with these issues and to wait for the decision of the minister, since she had a lot of problems in the previous period, a lot of bad statements, a lot of wrong estimates, a lot of some decisions that were later bad and that were corrected. Our motive is connected somewhere to a personal level, I agree, but I think this amendment should be accepted, which is essentially similar to what was said in the previous one.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36540	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36541	Ladies and gentlemen, a respected colleague, it is also proposed to delete Article 3 of your amendment, so that your concept and the concept proposed by the Government differ significantly in the fact that the obligations of the Ministry of Construction, which should be guided primarily by the reconstruction of railway infrastructure, are significantly reduced when it comes to the issue of approval for the execution of works, when it comes to the approval for the use of railways and reception and control of the works carried out by the Ministry of Construction. So, both in this and in the next article, accepting these amendments of yours would significantly endanger even traffic security, because the Ministry of Building would have far less ingenuity and, unfortunately, it seems to me that these two amendments, amendment to Article 20, and amendment to Article 21, are unacceptable because they concern the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36542	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36543	Thank you. In this amendment, I would like to touch more on this section, which applies in Section 4, after saying, "standards" that the point is replaced by a comma and that words are added, "which is prescribed by the Ministry". I was surprised that the promoters expected such an amendment to be adopted, because the explanation just says that the Ministry, or that it says, is closer to determining the content of the technical documentation and that the approval for the implementation of the works is certainly given by the minister and the competent ministry, but the seriousness of this ministry and the minister herself is precisely showing that she knows what her powers are and that the ministry cannot deal with standards. There's an institute for that, and it's a very serious thing, so it sets standards, and it refers to traffic safety, so as far as we have to get away from a certain traffic station. So there are very serious standards and the minister here is just showing her responsibility, so I think that this explanation was more than enough, and that there is an institute that deals with these things and that there is no need to overlap jurisdiction, so definitely, like many previous ones, this amendment should not be accepted either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36544	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36545	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, honored guests, I also feel that this should not be accepted, not because it is the party's proposed former regime, but because it is not consistent. At one point, they argue that the ministry should disenfranchise, respect the profession, profession, thus and the institute, and then propose an amendment to the ministry to take over the responsibilities, for example, in this case of the institute. I don't know when they're right, when they're consistent. I'm even thinking that the amendment is okay, we should think about it because of the inconsistencies of whether such amendments, proposed by the former regime party, should be accepted in general because of the inconsistencies of the promoters. If you want to disenfranchise the ministry, and that's your constant goal, you're saying that the ministries take too much authority on construction, etc., and on the other hand, you're asking them to take over the information that the institute has, then I really don't know what the promoter wants. For this reason, until the motionor determines what he wants, I suggest we do not accept this kind of amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36546	Thank you. The MPs together Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaib Kamberi, together with Boris Stefanović, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorović, submitted the 21st amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36547	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since the promoter is not here, I cannot suggest that it be accepted. Maybe they went to pay for electricity. But in the future, we should consider, when we discuss amendments to the Rules of Procedure, whether amendments to MPs who are not present should be considered. For that reason, I suggest we reject this amendment, because they don't even want to explain it, and we should vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36548	The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36549	Thank you, Madam President. With this amendment, we wanted to specify the obligations of infrastructure managers and road infrastructure managers when it comes to construction and reconstruction of railways, of course, in the conclusion of contracts. It is, in effect, Article 22, which adds Article 52a. We intervened in paragraph 2 where we predicted that instead of the word "signed", the word "closed" should be applied, so I would read that point 2. – the contract referred to in Article 1 shall, in our opinion, mean our solution, "closed" by 15 February at the latest for the current year. The word ‘closed’ shall also be mentioned in the position of the first member and in the position of the third member. I don't see the problem why not specify what we've done with our amendment. We believe that the contract is a consensus, i.e. the will of at least two parties, and it is concluded between the parties. The signature of the contract is only one, and that is the formal element of the contract, and we propose that the terms and terms of the bond law be used with the amendment. However, it is not the only problem in this article. We have also provided for a situation where the parties do not sign their contract, or conclude by 15 February of the current year, so that after Article 3 we have added a new position 4 which says – if the infrastructure manager and the travel infrastructure manager do not conclude the contract referred to in Article 1 within the time limit laid down in Article 2 of this Article their rights and obligations regarding mutual relations resulting from the provisions of Article 1(1), the Minister will, by means of his act, arrange by 15 March at the latest for the current year. So, we are starting from the assumption, or from the reality and possible situation where the infrastructure manager and the travel infrastructure manager do not conclude a contract that needs to regulate mutual relations, and we suggest that this possible situation, which can happen in a relative manner, be premeditated by a position 4, so that the Minister, by means of his act by 15 March at the latest for the current year, is just suggesting that the infrastructure manager and the travel infrastructure manager conclude the contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36550	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 23 amendments. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36551	Dear citizens of Serbia, dear minister, I think accepting this amendment may be another reason to apologize to me and my colleagues for the first sentence you said we hadn't read the law at the end of this debate. You can see for ourselves that on this case we have tried very studioy and serious and dedicatedly to fix this law that is very difficult to fix. In fact, Article 53, which changes, states in the first position that maintenance of the railway structure includes regular maintenance and reconstruction. So this is the position to be deleted according to the Ministry's proposal and it's said in this amended article, so 23, maintenance of railway infrastructure includes current, regular and extraordinary maintenance, recovery and adaptation. So, we've tried to harmonize these terms in style with our amendment and say that it's a good formulation to stay regular and extraordinary maintenance. The Minister has accepted this amendment and that's fine. I think there are a lot of members of this law who have similar bad formulations. There are many members who are indeterminate. There are many members who in one part talk in the future, and in another part deny the future. There are many members proposed by the government, who are not sure about the positive effects of this law that were thought of. I think, as this amendment has been accepted, the other 20 and some of the amendments that we have proposed should be accepted. Thank you. (Wolceta Toskovic, from the post: He will not be able to Sojic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36552	He's got a word... (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It is not right to throw. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36553	Dear Chairman, just a moment to see... Do you want anything? (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: It is not right to throw. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36554	I ask my fellow Members to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36555	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, dear minister, honored guests, I'm reading this and there's some excess quotes here. There are three quotes here, two points in the end. Is it possible, although the amendment was accepted, to remove the surplus so that I would not propose amendments as well as academic congratulations, not to propose amendments to the amendment, so that the Committee would correct a few points. They have two dots here, and they say I'm illiterate and semi-literate. I believe we have a lot of writing here, but a little oral. We have those who write as they're told, and read as they're written. Now there's been a mistake here somewhere. There are two points here at the end. Have you noticed, Madam Minister? They've got two dots. How can they be a dot, then two quotes, then a dot, then another quote? In doing so, those academic congratulators are now silent. If the mistake had been made by the ministry or, God forbid, I made a mistake, there would have been a demonstration of academic violence against my childhood. I ask the Minister to answer me if it is possible to remove it without these amendments, so that I may not be academically honest now, so that I suggest - put the point away, put a point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36556	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36557	Dear MP, we will remove you, you are absolutely right, but that makes us different from everyone else, because we are a democratic spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36558	Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, honored guests and guests from the Ministry, Mr. Arsic, the amendment that Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I submitted to Article 25 is one of the three amendments adopted to this bill. Once again, Mr. Arsic, let me remind you, one of the 119 total amendments accepted from all the amendments that we have submitted to all the draft laws in this year and a half, gentlemen, as far as we are doing in this conference. Now, gentlemen, first of all, Mr. Arsic, I would like to propose something to my colleagues and colleagues from the ruling parties. Instead, gentlemen, as the amendments of opposition MPs awaited here in the low beginning, my proposal, Mr Arsic, is that MPs from the ruling parties also carefully read the bill's proposals, submit amendments to the proposed laws, instead of preparing some songs and lullabys for ministers and ministers coming from this government. I remind you of this in connection with Mr Arsic, the accepted amendment to Article 25, that it is the obligation of all of us MPs, not only of the opposition, to oversee the work of the Government all of us. It is not the duty of the MP to constantly declare the praises of the minister or minister of his party, but to oversee the work of each minister in the Assembly, to perform our control function here. I therefore expect your support for this proposal, you have a rich parliamentary experience unlike me, but this year and a half of my work tells me that this proposal is good, that all 250 MPs here are preparing amendments, so that the bill's proposals are better and that we are criticising the power. Thank you. Mr. Arsic, five more.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36560	You spent two minutes, you didn't say a single word about the amendment, except it was accepted. The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36561	Well, I didn't want to go before, but here, just to explain what it looks like when you oversee the work of the government, through your amendments. So in one of the amendments that we accepted from the words – which, we accepted to be which. In this amendment, from a sentence, that is, in part, a few words in a sentence proposed by the ministry, maintenance costs - the manager, you suggested to write the infrastructure manager for maintenance costs. All right. That's what surveillance looks like. And I must confess that I really expected more from you, Your Honor. If four amendments were just to be accepted in that spelling grammatical sense, that's really small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36562	A colleague of Zivkovic, a colleague of Pavicevic, on what basis. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You absolutely don't. The Minister spoke more about the amendment than you who wrote the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: By amendment. ) According to the amendment, MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36563	Thank you very much. This continues with the practice that when amendments are given, then one part of parliament is unfortunately already in a state of wonder, as well as representatives of the government. I will repeat once again to you that we have all been in this House long enough, and some too long, and also in the Government, to the provisions of our Rules of Procedure that speak of any MP may bear the amendment. Is he good or bad, in a formal sense, to be decided by committees who are in charge? No play, no jokes and attempts of humor on any side can be accepted by the chairman. So, that mockery towards MPs who do their jobs, unlike other MPs, of course they won't raise the reputation of this institution in those who choose us, and we certainly know that by various surveys. As for the Minister's expectations, from my fellow MPs and from others in the government's control, I think you can be pleased here.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36564	My colleague Zivkovic, I'd like to ask you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36565	Of course, so what else am I talking about, just the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36566	You're absolutely not talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36567	But what you think has nothing to do with what I'm saying. I'm talking about the amendment in five minutes, and I have the right to give one broad explanation of the meaning of the amendment. So, NS MPs Mr Pavicevic and I have submitted a large number of amendments, not to hinder the government in reform, but to help where possible. We have three kinds of amendments. One species is that we give the words – it is deleted, when the law is so bad that there is no chance of repairing it. And it's happened many times. And that's not pointless. You can ask the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic if it is pointless, after he has deleted one law that has been passed here by most, and we have given an amendment to all the members of that law - is deleted. It was the law on trying to sell under the grains of national property on Dedinj...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36568	Mr. Zivkovic, I still haven't understood the meaning of your discussion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36569	Your understanding depends on you, not me. I'm trying to make you understand what I'm saying. So it's kind of an amendment. Another kind of amendment is that we try to fix those laws that can make efforts to be corrected, and such amendments have been adopted. Of course, fighting for Serbian language, grammar, spelling, is something that must be close to MPs, above all to government representatives, regardless of allegedly reducing the number of people in the government, which is not true, to allegedly cutting costs. It is enough if not ministers, then at least the clerks to be written and to give both legal technical and all other types of analysis of the text that comes to parliament. Parliament's misrepresentation is if a text comes here that is not written in spelling and Serbian grammar. It's that third kind of amendment and we'll keep doing it. Your expectations for the government to be controlled, of course they are also established in the Constitution, which defines the work of the Serbian Parliament and the Rules of Procedure, which defines the work of us MPs. I don't think you can have any objections to the intensity, frequency, quantity and quality of control that Mr. Pavicevic and I are trying to introduce here towards the government. Of course, it does not depend on the opposition MPs, it is our job to try, but that parliament will have the role of the government's work controllers or not, it depends on the MPs of the majority. Of course, that's not just true of this convocation, that's true of the call before this call. This has been true of all calls since the multi-party in Serbia and I will tell you, rarely when the Assembly has performed its control function in an adequate manner. But this long absence of that function, that role of the Assembly has never been. I think we'll agree on that. So, I don't want to hurt anyone, insult, say something that I could cause negative energy, but have as much respect for the MPs of the opposition as you think you are powerful in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36570	Thank you. We continue to work on amendments to the amendment to the Amendment Law on amendments to the Law on Railways, in particular, to remind participants of what we are discussing today. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36571	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable minister, the honored guest, the esteemed chairman, now that it's come to me, then we must respect the amendments, but come on. We went well. He's not a doctor, but he can run a diagnosis. So, Madam Minister, you've been very well with us. I'm reporting for the text of the amendment and I agree with my fellow farmer. In the fight for Serbian language grammar and spelling, I agree both in declaration and in practice. Let's just read the last sentence, because it's long enough to read just the last part of that last sentence. It says – and other direct costs for ensuring safe and uninterrupted traffic at the crossing point, points, quotes, points, quotes. For me, it's excess points, excess quotes. I don't know, Madam Minister, what do you think, but here again, we have almost elementary illiteracy. If someone from elementary school had gone to some practice and had had a written exam, if he had done something like this, he certainly wouldn't have got an "A," he'd have got four, maybe three. But, look at the wonders, this was written by the academic congratulatory. It wasn't my illiterate farmers who wrote it, it was written by written farmers. Among them are academic congratulators at the university, etc. What their students learn, read, what if they write 200 dots and 200 sign quotes. It's unacceptable for me, and the future amendments need... This amendment has been accepted and I don't know if it can be done without a committee. Now, the amendment can't, I don't know how we can solve it, so that the board doesn't now remove those points, I think that by some procedure later in this text it's possible to remove the excess of these points. Maybe there'll be extra letters somewhere. One of the promoters of these amendments was the prime minister, he spoke about fighting for Serbian language, grammar spelling, and it turned out quite differently, I really don't know what we're going to do in the future. What if he shows up and if we find any amendments, then what happens? I believe they have some copying school, which they prescribe from, whether this academically correct copy of this French pearl is either done vice versa or copied from someone else. I don't know what's going on, but this is a half-written, almost illiterate amendment to me. Please pay particular attention to these two proposings in the future, given that they propose 200 amendments to add a point, delete a point, comma, etc. Where any little grammatical error occurs, it jumps immediately, it's demonstrated, it's said that we have to be written, academically honest, and when they're wrong several times consecutively, when it's obvious that it's about copying, and not about theirs, who was it against plagiarism? Is this a copy? We've already seen that we have identical amendments with the same mistakes? Is this plagiarism? Do they copy that from each other? Are we going to question their titles, their doctorates, etc. Given that they have suggested several points consecutively, several of these quotes that elemental literacy requires the amendment to be drawn up a little bit better? Are we going to talk about plagiarism now? Are we going to say now that it's not academically congratulating? I ask the Minister to give me an answer as to what we're going to do if this is repeated in the show -- how are we going to prevent that kind of behavior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36572	Right on line, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished guests from the ministry, respected Vice-President of the National Assembly and chair of today's session, Mr. Arsic, I would like to say two things now about the amendment to Article 25, which we have tabled on this bill by Mr. MP Zoran Zivkovic and I. The first thing, Mr Arsic, this amendment is perfectly correct in the technical, linguistic, grammatical, spelling sense, submitted in accordance with those requirements that all MPs who know how to read the amendments. I now expect the MPs from other parliamentary groups, from other political parties, to report and confirm that this is the case. Another thing, Mr. Arsic, here we have an invitation to academic honesty as one of the principles that I think, in this National Assembly, in this assembly, was the most spoken of by me. I'm sorry, Mr. Arsic, that we can hear today that there are some MPs who, even after a year of debate on academic honesty, do not know what academic honesty means, gentlemen. Mr. Arsic, let me repeat it once again what academic honesty is. Academic congratulation is based on the independent production of written works and strict respect for other people's copyrights. Academic congratulation, gentlemen, is important because the most severe form of violation of academic integrity is plagiarism, gentlemen. We, being faced here with the flood of plagiarism, were to adopt the principle of academic honesty in higher education, instead of laughing here at that principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36574	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I did not challenge the replica, nor was that basis, I am obliged to respond. If someone says that written papers are not to be copied, etc., if, at several sessions, I find that MPs, regardless of university knowledge, or more titles than knowledge, made great academic titles, made spelling and spelling, grammatical errors, which are unacceptable for the primary school, if it is repeated with other MPs and other MPs, then it is logical to determine that such complicated written works, the amendment is certainly written work, plagiarized by copying it from his colleague or his colleague prescribed it from him. Since the amendment promoter often advocates this kind of academic honesty, which I can't even feel here in practice, it's my duty to remind this kind of amendment promoter that in a certain way they acted two-facedly, that one rule dictated to us, and that the other, quite another rule applies to them. If someone fights plagiarism, and I catch them cheating on each other, then we can talk in a certain way about hypocrisy when someone from the session asks us to adopt the Law on Higher Education and to remove any kind of plagiarism in terms of academic honesty. If you remove other people's plagiarists and doubt them, then you must first remove yours. Otherwise, I don't mind favoring the opposition in a certain way, but I still claim there are excess points and surplus quotes here. Can't go dot, quoter, dot quote. For me, it's unacceptable as a written man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36576	Time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been hearing about the development of parliamentaryism, points, commas, plagiarities, academic honesty for 20 minutes, and amendments to the Law on Railways are on the agenda. So please return to the agenda topic. Does anyone else want a word on this amendment that was otherwise accepted? The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, have submitted an amendment to Article 25 relating to Article 55. The railroad law, where we've been looking, which is added after article 55. 55a to 55v. where we asked to be in Article 55a. Delete attitude four and I'll read it to you so we know what we suggested. Article 55a. says, originally as proposed by the Government – the infrastructure manager, referring to railways, railways, as well as business operators performing road maintenance activities are obliged to implement prescribed safety measures at the road crossing and to maintain road crossings in a state in which traffic is secure. The cost of maintenance of the road crossing and the cost of ensuring safe and uninterrupted traffic at the road crossing shall be below 1. – Costs of maintenance of railways and other parts of railway infrastructure at the road crossing, signalling devices and signs that warn train workers on the road crossing, railway telephone links with road crossings the infrastructure manager, is meant by the train manager. Under 2. – The cost of maintaining August at a road crossing and traffic signs on roads that warn road users at the road crossing, travel infrastructure manager, is thought of by one who runs the roads in Serbia. Under 3. – the cost of maintenance of road crossing devices for road users, etc. on flat parts, infrastructure manager and road infrastructure manager. The next point is that the infrastructure manager carries in general the costs of managing the devices at the road crossing in the cell area, i.e. from the entry signal on the one hand to the entrance signal from the other side of the official location, which will say that the respected colleagues and colleagues will maintain the railway driver on their own cost only as far as the station is concerned, whether it is a rucksack station, a road traffic station, and a passing device. The next attitude says – if the untegorized route uses mainly, which is very interesting how it is determined and what it is primarily, a particular company, another legal person or entrepreneur. Costs of maintenance of August and insurance of safe and uninterrupted traffic at the road crossing referred to in Article 2(2) and (3) of this Article shall be borne by that undertaking, other legal person or entrepreneur as a whole. We have suggested that this position be deleted, firstly, which we do not want to additionally burden burdened operators who are still working in Serbia, and secondly, which is not explained how someone uses it more and someone less. Based on which parameters, who's that going to decide what's more, and what's less? So we suggested that these untegrated routes be transferred to the next position that it says – in the case of categorized and untegrated routes, the infrastructure manager and the road infrastructure manager are treated in accordance with the provisions of point 2 of point 2 and 3 of this article, which means that they will bear the maintenance of these infrastructure parts. What we were still looking for is in Article 55v to change the second position, and the member says: “If the railway infrastructure is to be renovated or adapted for the construction of another facility, the public road, mine, quarry, accumulation lake, airport and the like, part of the railway infrastructure that is being renovated or adapted must be built with elements that correspond to the category of the railway infrastructure, regardless of the real state in which it is located at the moment of recovery or adaptation. “ It’s completely understandable. This position, which we ask for to change, reads: "The costs of rescheduling or adapting the railway infrastructure referred to in Article 1 shall be borne by the investor of the facility, for which construction is carried out to resuscitate or adapt the railway infrastructure, unless investors and infrastructure manager agree otherwise." We have suggested that this reads: "The costs of rescheduling and adapting the railway infrastructure referred to in Article 1 shall be borne by the infrastructure manager. “ I’m going back to Nis again. If the railway line happens through the city of Vlad, the state electricitys temporarily, as Mr Simonovic announced it would happen, so the City Assembly and the entire public of the city of Nis rebelled, and if the city of Nis continues to demand that it be removed, because it is logical, the city will not be able to function, you will get Nis 1 and Nis 2 that are divided by the railroad, because if the electricity goes there faster traffic, if it goes faster traffic must be fenced, and if we want to have communication we have to do underpasses, overpasses, whatever it takes, and then the city will have to finance it. If we're going to keep moving the railroad, we're going to have to move the city again, because this turns out that the person who applies should bear that cost. I don't think it's right, and you all have the same problems, all your places going through, I guess, the railroad, because I don't believe there's room in Serbia that doesn't have a railroad, it's stupid to pay double and it's illogical to pay double. I'll remind you of something. We passed a Lex specialise on "Belgrade on Water". Moving a railway knot from Belgrade, Prokop, a new railway station, everything that belongs to the republican budget, and what we are going to do to our local self-government must be financed by local self-government. Well, it's not right, it's not nice. We still represent our fellow citizens. If anything applies to one part of Serbia, it must apply to all Serbia, whoever is leading this Serbia and whoever is in power. Therefore, I ask you to support our amendment and to make it possible for more secure spring crossings in our midst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36578	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36579	Thank you for your comment, but I think it's time to read the full article as it says, and he says, if the railway infrastructure is to be rescheduled or adapted, that's what you said, and then this second part goes just on the Nis case, so I'm telling you - because of the construction of the second facility. So, if we move the railroad because we want to build a mine, a public road, whatever, in which case whoever's doing it, whoever's moving it, or who's supposed to make a public road, a mine or whatever, pays to move out the railway infrastructure. That's not the case with Nis, since you've been setting that example. So do not forget part of the sentence – for building another object. That's what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36580	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36581	I wouldn't agree with you. I think, regardless of the real state in which it is at the moment of the railroad's recovery, it should be done as prescribed by the rules. Second and essential, infrastructure should not be transferred to investor ownership. Right? This railway infrastructure that someone adapts will continue to own the railways and it is logical that the railways fund it. But if you think, when you do the quarry, the mine, the accumulation lake, the airport and the other, it'll be a foreign private investor, so that he should invest, that's what you should say here. But if, say, the airport in Nis is working and the railway infrastructure needs to be removed, it's going to fall on the city's burden, and I'm talking about budget money and the money of the city of Nis. I'll take the opportunity, since the citizens of Nis are probably looking at this, to say definitely will the Ministry remove the railway line from the city of Nis? Is it going to move or are you going to electrify the existing one? Now, I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36582	Right to replication, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36583	Now let's read again the second part, the second point -- the cost of resuscitating or adapting the railway infrastructure referred to in item 1, and now we've said if one of the buildings of this member is built, it's borne by an investor of an object whose construction is being rescheduled. Then goes this second part, which you did not say again – or the adaptation of railway infrastructure, unless otherwise agreed by the investor and infrastructure manager. I don't think it's necessary to burden the law with additional railways, and there's one and another possibility and it's very clear. So, I apologize, but your amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36584	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36585	Dear Vice-President, honourable minister, guests from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, I want to support my fellow Members' amendment and I want to draw attention to this very important topic once again in the Serbian Parliament. This is the problem the city of Nis has had for a very long time. This is not the problem this year, nor this government, this is the problem that the citizens of Nisa have and this has nothing to do with politics. A railroad that passes through the city of Nis cuts the city into two parts, to more than 12 spring crossings. The safety of the citizens is highly compromised and it doesn't take a few months for us to hear that one of Nisli has been killed crossing that railroad. If this railroad is electrified, if trains go by at a higher speed, I fear that the safety of the Nish citizens will be further compromised. I think that here we really need to have hearing and that together with the city government, with people who run the city of Nis Republic government, we need to find a solution and a way to solve this problem, because this is the problem of the city of Nis, the second largest city, which is the centre of southeastern Serbia, a city that should be the driver of our country's development in this territory, and there is one big problem. Unfortunately, many governments have been, many parties have led the republican governments, reached Nis, promised to solve this problem, and few have devoted attention to really solving this problem. This is a life problem for the citizens of Nis and by solving the movement of the railway or the turn of the railway, there are some ideas that have been made by previous city management along with your resolution ministry, when you were not, were some other ministers, working, to make a bypass for freight and passenger traffic, to be made at the railway station "Red Cross", which would connect with the train station in Sitcheva, and thus practically all of this would be shifted to another route. What's most important is to ensure the safety of the citizens, because you also know by historical archives that this is the first railway between Belgrade and Nis and it's very old, it hasn't changed. It's nice that the city of Nis has spread, increased, but that railroad when it was built was on the Nish periphery, and now literally through the city center it passes and therefore requires a really more serious solution and one unity. Minister, the city of Nis leads people from your party and the city of Nis has no reason to be subject to political outwitting. This is just one appeal to be unique, and I ask all MPs from Nis, I ask all MPs from Southeast Serbia to help us work together with your ministry, with you as minister and to find the best solution, as well as with Mayor Nis, Mr Perisic, to find a solution to this problem of the safety of the citizens of Nis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36586	Thank you. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Mr Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36587	Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, this member of the law in which the verb "measure" by my assessment and the proposal is used correctly from the edge of the structure was the reason why I submitted amendments to both Article 3 and Article 4 in particular in Article 3 of point 13 and 34 which were badly formulated because you used this term "measured it" in an incomplete way and you came to a problem in this Article 49, proposing another formulation, so that my proposal was in fact a consensus with your proposals and I am glad that it was corrected in the discussion that we had here and in an analysis of the services that were considering applying this amendment. Furthermore, in the last position of this member, I wanted to point to that part that says the minister prescribes a way to obtain consent from infrastructure managers etc. And all the time in the discussion, I want to stress this particular dilemma, which is why I suggested that the ministry decide instead of the minister on these topics. I really think it's inadmissible for the Minister to keep the house on the phone all the time, to discuss some other topics, not to respect what we're saying, and to show how busy the minister is and how right I was when I said that in fact the competent services on themselves should take the obligation to solve these issues, to determine the regulations, to direct the course of these processes, and I think that this particular discussion and the minister's behaviour is in this sense proof that I was right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36588	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36589	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues, Article 28 refers to Article 63 of the Law, and we have suggested that it be changed and that the term "urban railway" should be returned, so that the name of the member would be the city railway, metro, cable and tourist museum railways; and then the "urban railway" would be returned, as originally in the amended member would be, to Article 63, so that it would vote that - city railways and metros, conditions for construction, reconstruction and maintenance, as well as conditions for organising transport to city railways and metros are regulated by a special law. We have suggested this for the simple reason why we believe that the term "city railway" persists into the law and I see no reason to remove it from the law, from this article. One more thing I would like to ask Mrs. Minister, I am twice so far and my colleague Dusan Milisavljevic once, three times we asked, will we hear from the Minister, because it is alive interested in the citizens of Nis, will the Government and the Ministry remove the railway from the city of Nis on the intended route that began in 2010? An idea project and all that documentation was done, a loan was raised that wasn't used until the end, or are you going to electrify? Answer me: We shall remove the railway, we shall not remove the railway; if the people of Nis knew, they will expect an answer. You're our minister and I'm asking on behalf of the citizens to tell us if you want to move the railroad, because since 2012, everything's been standing. The idea project was done, the general plan was to be done, it went into expropriation, it stopped in 2012. Since 2012, expropriation was to be completed and all other planning documents were to be completed. The city of Nis did everything to him. I assume that since 2012, when you took over the power, you've completed the expropriation, what's waiting for you to move the railroad? I ask you not to bring the citizens of Nis before the final act, that the path of Corridor E-10 must be temporarily electrified. As the Spanish fighters said, it will not pass. That really won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36590	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36591	I will be happy to answer you just to see who cares about the citizens of Nis, and who didn't care about the citizens of Nis, because five years ago the city authorities deleted all the documentation, the existence of a railway that goes through Nis. So there's no such thing as the documentation of the existence of a railway network. In that sense, it is very difficult and there is no idea project, you are wrong, but in 2013, and it will be the government in which the SNS has engaged consultants and started working on the plan because there is no plan basis for the consultant to do his job, and that is not because we are not going to do it, but because they are certain structures, and these were DS structures. I don't know who was before SNS in Nis in power, wiped out an existing railroad that exists today, a plan base for that railroad. I mean, amazing but true. Therefore, we have a consultant who works. The value of the investment itself is 80m euros. We want to do this, but we want to do it in accordance with the law and in relation to what you are in a real state, and that is information for the citizens of Nisa.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36592	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Blagoja Bradic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36593	Thank you. You're wrong, Madam Minister. So, the PDR was done, a feasibility study was done and a general feasibility study project should be done. The loan was raised from nine million at the World Bank, used a million and a half, you didn't use seven and a half million. It entered the expropriation process, the city owns about half of that land, there are about four kilometers along the E-10 highway route to do the expropriation, so you're absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36594	Time, fellow Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36595	And in order for us not to argue so much, please come to the city of Nis...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36596	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36597	Let's get this straight one more time. The PDR did, but no railways in the city. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: You are wrong. ) This is how it is done and it is very difficult now without, and the plan base is the basis for us to continue doing the documentation. So, don't transfer, I agree, there's been a mistake. We haven't made a mistake, we'll correct it, we'll correct it like a lot of other mistakes we're correcting, but just to make it clear who made the mistake and who corrected the mistake. The mistake was made by those who were there in power four or five years ago when they deleted and when they were doing the railway-free PDR, and the mistake will correct, yes, this government and the SNS, which will, of course, complete this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36598	The word has a National MP, Mr Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36599	Replica. Dear Chairman, on behalf of the DS Parliament Club, I would like to draw attention once again to the attention of the Serbian citizens that we have heard in this debate and in a number of other debates involving the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, a series of indictments at the expense of DS, whose series of statements were very casual and which were very superficial. At this point, we cannot determine the actual situation and it is likely that Mr. Bradic knows far better the opportunities in Nis than Mrs. Mihajlović, and that he is probably better addressed to all these problems because for more than two years here he has been raising issues and topics of development of Nis and solving this problem regarding the railways. I cannot simply accept these arguments made by Mrs. Mihajlovic, given that only a month ago, the Minister of Infrastructure ordered the town of Užica to stop the project of construction of a 15m-euro waste water plant with a single letter, completely transferring guilt and responsibility to the citizens of Užica, to the city's leadership, to previous authorities and not a little respect for its responsibility in the realisation of this job and these projects. It is a case that is repeated in this Assembly and these are examples that we have been listening to for three years by Minister Mihajlovic, who are not at all adequate with real reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36600	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36601	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with staff, respected MPs, Nis City has been sharing the railroad for 50 years. The Democratic Party has been in power for 12 years in Nis. The regulatory plan of maybe 50 years ago put that railroad there. You didn't have the strength, and how hard are you to move everything over to SNS to work for a year, to keep that railroad out of Nis, I can't figure out what you've been doing for 12 years in your city? How can you accuse someone who had nothing to do with that railroad and the city of Nis? We weren't in power. How can you not be ashamed of yourself?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36602	Thank you. Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36603	Respected Serbian citizens, a 28th member who is in fact a replacement of the 63rd in the previous law, refer in one part to the conditions given for building the subway, in 2nd position it refers to the conditions given for construction of cableways. In both attitudes, what is unacceptable to me and really strange is a formula that says that these conditions for construction will be determined by a special law. So you have two positions of this member that are supposed to be major reforms in this area, which should achieve very important goals, and then it is said that you will edit the conditions for construction both for metro and for cablers of special laws, and this should be a great reform and a great step forward. We felt that these views should be deleted and what we proposed was particularly important and I tried and in the principle debate to talk about this subject, is the role of the Ministry in determining the conditions concerning tourist-museum railways. And as a few days ago in the principle debate, and now we have very few MPs here, we have an uninterested ministry that won't look back on the problem of, say, the Chargan Eights, the town of Uzica and all of Western Serbia, who are simply calling for your support and helping to solve the problem of the Sargan Eight and how we can not get into a situation to realize your plan and to transfer the Chargan Eight to the infrastructure as planned. So, you know very well that there are about 100,000 passengers in the Charganic Eight that are transported to that destination on an annual basis. This simply means that tourism and Tara and Zlatibor and all of Western Serbia are aimed at this project. Now, speaking of this subject, you're showing by your interest how much you care about taking care of this job and this project. Namely, 2000, 2001, 2002, people who started building the Chargan Eight had a vision ahead of them, had a mission ahead of them, had a great will and faith ahead of them. They believed that by working, supporting both the state and the government of the Republic of Serbia at that time and local administrations and people living there, they would raise something that is their lifestone and something that is good for the whole region. They have worked hard and dedicated with the support of many people for many years to make it a symbol of trying to make people in that area live better. We wanted to participate in this project and Visegrad, and for this reason we built this narrow track towards Republika Srpska and Visegrad, because we believed that these people deserved a chance to live a better life, to stay there. We also believed that the time would come for us to connect the track of the narrow track across Sargan to the Kreman and to Lake Vrutci, a respected minister. We believed you wouldn't give up that job and that project. You just did the opposite. Two years ago, you set up for leadership at this job, on this project, people who don't even know the essence, the importance of this job and this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36604	Comrade, please return to your amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36605	Now there's grass growing and weed growing. Now we've come into a situation that you're giving up that job... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36606	Thank you. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: Can I say that sentence? You can't. I warned you to return to the agenda and the amendment. With your amendment, you asked for the wire and the subway to be regulated by a special law. I don't see what that has to do with the Chargan Eight. (Jovan Markovic, from the post: You have an explanation for what I said below. () What is the issue with the minister’s arrangement? I don't understand. (Jovan Markovic, from the scene: If you'd let me finish the sentence, you'd understand. Ask for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36607	I am absolutely certain that you have given me the opportunity to say to the end this thought of all the harmfulness and execution of this concept, to transfer the Chargan Eight to the infrastructure and use the means and money of passengers for different needs, so that you understand that need. But I also know that the Ministry and the Minister are not interested in this topic. All the time I've been talking, they've had some of their own consultations. That speaks of their relationship to this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36608	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36609	Thank you. Dear Members of the Democratic Party, first of all, do not deceive the public. The Chargan eight is working and working, and it's currently in the infrastructure, where you're looking to cross and we care very much that it works and it works, because it's one pearl when we talk about our rail transport. You're absolutely right that you've worked very hard in the past few years on the Sargans eight. The problem is that very committed, too, was working to destroy railway infrastructure and that you worked very hard to make the whole railway go at that average speed that the Chargan Eight is going, and that's ten kilometers an hour, unfortunately. So, I'm glad you're no longer in a position to work so hard on it, but for the citizens of Serbia, the Sargan Eight will also work and we'll still be proud of that part, as we'll be equally proud of the modern railway, of new trains that come on both rail infrastructures and trains that go over 100 kilometers an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36610	The word has the People's MP Jovan Markovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36611	Dear Minister, here's another confirmation that you didn't listen to what I was saying. I didn't ask for the Chargan Eight to stay in the infrastructure, I asked her to stay in passenger transport. I believe your intention to move to infrastructure is devastating for this project. I wasn't talking about just me working on that job, because I didn't get a chance to work 2000, 2001, 2002 on that job. Some other people, who gave their life and their knowledge, their profession and their time and all that they could do for the people living in that space. It is not true that I was saying it in the first face of unity, but precisely with the desire to point out to you the importance of this project and that at this moment we are growing weeds, that the people you named in front of you, or in front of the state to do this work, not that they have failed to further expand and improve it, not that they have failed to raise the number of passengers, but have managed to bring that project into a very bad state and that there they are beginning to grow weeds. I'm asking you to pay attention. All of these directions we've been working on, both towards the Kremlins and towards the Lake and the Vruts are very important and it's possible to establish traffic both towards Visegrad and these places if you support as a concept and if you set up again people who believe in it and who want to work for it. In this case, if this project happens to enter the infrastructure and that your concept and intention is realized, there will indeed be great weeds there next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36612	I'd just like the MPs to talk about the amendments. And when you spoke about the amendment, the difference between the bill and the amendment is that the minister edits the bill, and according to the amendment, the Ministry edits and there is no other difference in your amendment anymore. It's nice of you to tell me about the Sargan Eight, I'd just ask you to tell the truth, because only if something had changed since May of the month. I was there in May and everything was fine. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted to the 28th amendment... I'm sorry. Alexander Markovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36613	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, so I suggest that, of course, this amendment be rejected, so I welcome the amendment to Article 28, and I welcome all the reasons that the Government has given in its opinion, which are in favour of rejecting the proposed amendment. Very briefly, in one sentence, as regards the lack of interest in this topic, the lack of interest of the ministry, the lack of interest of the ruling majority, the lack of interest of the SNS, I would ask you, the chairman, to ask the promoters of this amendment to just look around. So, to look around at how many MPs are present from his party today at this debate and everything will be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36614	The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36615	I thank the chairman, but I thought we would move on to the next member, and I also reported, first of all, to say, according to the amendment, that the amendment cannot be accepted because city railways under the Law on Railways do not exist in terms of rail infrastructure and that tourist-museum railways cannot be considered a leading transport system. Also, I would need to say just a few words, since the museum railway, the Chargan Eight Tourism Museum Railway, is mentioned. So there is still a fully regular state, the Chargan Eight is being maintained, not healed and no project has been completed, further work has been planned, and that is why I support the transfer to the infrastructure, so that it does not happen, such as in 2011, a bunch of questions about where the money goes from the Chargan Eight, where money goes to use objects that are part of the Sargan Eight. So our goal is to be more transparent and to belong to railway infrastructure. This is generally good, and management must be of general interest. The ministry will also give approval to the management program that will have the manager, so that this will be the maintenance, organisation, construction, reconstruction and what everyone needs to understand is that the Chargan 8th and all the tourist-museum railways should be preserved, the infrastructure. It's not supposed to be an ATM from where we're going to get the money, it's supposed to be preserved as a museum railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36616	Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36617	I'm using the right to a replica, the Honorable Chairman, because in these discussions, a colleague sees some people's responsibility from three, four, five years ago...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36618	You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36619	I want a replica. If not, then nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36620	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 29th amendment. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 29 refers to industrial railways and industrial railways, i.e. Article 64 of the basic law, and one part of Article 64 discusses the possibility of joining railways to railway infrastructure. In Article 29, our intention was to change the position of 1 in the original form, which is the one that the promoter gives, says – the accession of industrial railways under Article 2 of this Article and the industrial track of the position of 3 of this member and the maintenance of separate turning points shall be governed by the contract of the infrastructure manager and the company, the other legal entity or entrepreneur whose industrial railway is connected. We have proposed a change of that position, item 1 and it should now read – joining of industrial railways under Item 2 of this Article and industrial track of Article 3, reflecting and the level of compensation for the maintenance of separate turning points shall be governed by the contract of the infrastructure manager and the company, the other legal entity or entrepreneur whose industrial rail, or industrial track, is attached. We believe that the contract of the infrastructure manager, on one hand, and the company, the other legal person, on the other hand, or entrepreneurs, whose industrial railway or industrial track is connected to the railway infrastructure should regulate relations concerning the accession and maintenance of separate routes, as well as the cost of maintenance of these stations...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36622	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36623	... Not that the amount of the fees shall be determined by one party. In this case, it's the infrastructure manager.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36624	Thank you. (Branka Karavidic, from the post: Time of the parliamentary group. You don't have any more time as a Parliament Club. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished guests and distinguished guests from the Ministry, respected Vice-President's National Assembly and chaired by today's session, Mr. Arsic, the amendment that Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I submitted to Article 29 is one of the three amendments adopted to this bill, respected gentlemen, and one of the 119 amendments accepted to all the draft laws that we MPs of the New Party have submitted in this year and a half. Dear Mr. Arsic, Mrs. Mihajlović is, I can tell you directly, Mrs. Mihajlović, you told us that you expected more from us from the MPs of the New Break, here I say, and from me myself, so this is how I conclude. Since the acceptance of our amendments is 7.76% in percentages, and by some analogy, these percentages could be presented as showing that the New Party today has 7.76% support in the electoral body and that Mrs. Mihajlovic expects the New Party to have even more support in the electoral body, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36626	Please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36627	Mrs. Mihajlovic responded to my amendment, Mr. Arsic, so I guess I can now answer Mrs. Mihajlović and tell her – Mrs. Mihajlovic, we will meet your expectations, the New Party will have more than 7.76% in the next parliamentary elections... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36628	The word is by MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36629	Thank you, Your Honor. By listening to a fellow applicant of amendments now and in previous discussions, who carried out various mathematical, logical operations and the number of accepted amendments identified with the support of the electoral body, which is, of course, wrongly, by listening to a colleague who was very excited to talk about the adoption of the amendment itself and since there is no negative position on the proposed law, except for spelling and grammatical errors and linguistic concerns, I expect my colleagues to support this law in the day of voting, because it will be a major shift for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36630	Mr. Pavicevic, on what grounds? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: On the basis of Article 104) You're looking for a right to a replica because someone invited you to vote for the law? (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: There are other things said there. You have no right to a replica. The People's Messenger Mirko Krlić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36631	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for accepting this amendment. I think this is a step in the right direction, that this is a great humanitarian act in the direction of moral health and mental hygiene of the MP himself. You know, we've had amendments so far -- it's wiped out, and now we've got marks and commas. It's a change of tools, it's a change of school supplies, from rubber to pen. A small step for humanity, but a huge step for the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36632	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević, please. According to the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Mihajlovic, distinguished associates and associates of Mrs. Mihajlovic, dear Mr. Arsic, I believe that a member of 103 has just been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and of the Members of 106th and 107th, and above all, Article 107th, Mr Arsic. Mr. Krlić, it's on mine, I have to say here, a huge surprise, used by Mr. Arsic, two coins, which he described my actions in this National Assembly. Mr. Arsic, Mr. Krlic said earlier that when the minister accepted the amendment I submitted, it was part of the minister's humanitarian work, gentlemen of honor. That's terrible, Mr. Arsic, a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. The submission of amendments, the acceptance of amendments, can't be humanitarian work, it's part of our regular legislative activities, gentlemen. Mr. Arsic, I do not ask you to warn later, or to warn Mr. Krlic, but one apology from Mr. Krlić would now be appropriate, and especially if I add another Mr. Arsic to this remark, Mr. Krlić said that it is good for my mental hygiene that an amendment has been accepted. Dear gentlemen, is it appropriate for one reasonable man here to use such coins to describe the actions of one MP, who is one of the most active here and one of the most dedicated? But even if it wasn't, can't we tell anyone, Mr. Krlic? In this year and a half, I haven't said a word to anyone here. Is it possible that I, for example, deserved your address? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36634	Mr Pavicevic, it is likely that these problems and these situations would not occur if we were back on the agenda and if we really talked about the amendments that we really wrote and submitted. I agree that every MP has the right to his interpretations of the amendments, but be prepared to cause any action and reaction. I don't agree with everything Mr. Krlić said, which is why I interrupted his exposure, if you noticed. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt, because I can't know in advance what the MP is going to say until he says it. When you cross certain boundaries, then it's the job of the chairman to react. (Mirko Krlić, from the place: Replica. ) Mr Krlić, you do not have the right to reply, because there has been advertising of Rules of Procedure and violations of Rules of Procedure, you may by amendment, if you wish. But before that, you'll have to wait for a colleague of Risticevic, who called before you. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36635	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36636	Excuse me, ask for another word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36637	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, dear minister, honored guest, respected chairman, I have read this amendment carefully and I am glad that it has been accepted. In particular, because the amendment refers to industrial circuits, i.e. connections. I am very pleased that I believe that we need to produce as many goods as possible, to take out, that this is the only way and I welcome the amendment promoter. So we need as many industrial tracks as possible, we need as much production as possible. It doesn't exactly agree with their earlier philosophy, better introduced, than produced, but on their support for some production by the new government, I certainly thank them for planning to need a lot of industrial production tracks that we're going to develop in the next period. Since this government will take several mandates, and since the second one in the shadow will last even longer, I assume these industrial colossals will multiply and there will be more in the increase of 7.7%. If we calculate, I'm not satisfied with the explanation of the amendment, where the promoter pulled out some of his parallels with the number of amendments accepted with support in the electoral body. I'm not happy, but I'm pleased that he predicted that industry would be developed and that we would need a lot of industrial connections and I thank him for that. There is no better government support than when someone says – we will need industrial connections on the tracks. It means that he believes in this government, that he is committed, that he is closely monitoring the government's work and that he believes that industry, in particular the processing industry and agriculture with the development of energy and accompanying activities, will contribute to making as much production in this country as possible, that through production new wages, pensions, that these salaries and pensions have support in production and that their growth is justified, that we have as much goods as possible, and when we have more goods, then we have more and more money. They will not live more than the man in charge, as they lived during the rule of the party of the former regime, but people will receive salaries from production. We're going to share the surplus, we're not going to live off the gap, which was the case in the previous period. Regardless of what the amendment promoter from the former regime's party list has ruined many things in the industry, it is certainly worth the attention he believes in the new government. As for the 7.7, I believe he's been seeing something and I don't think he's seen one or two zeros in front of those 7.7, so I think it's about 0,077. I firmly believe that percentage, and I don't think the 7.7 will go to the polls alone. Those 7.7 will never be on the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36638	The word has been given by MP Mirko Krlić, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36639	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't finish my discussion just now, but I was interrupted, probably by your failure, and I don't have any objection to that. I'm only sorry that I may be misunderstood by the MP. I noticed his smile, his brightness, his yellowness, "yellow as communism" said Sarajevo poet Izet Sarajlic. That pleasure has driven me to mention mental hygiene, because every pleasure on all of us in the direction of mental hygiene has a positive impact. I didn't think it would be offensive. In fact, on this amendment, I commend the increase in the creativity of the MP. I think it's the result of his transition to the permanent work of this tall home. Of course, the result is evident, we don't have any more – it is deleted, but we have marks and commas. Huge progress. But, Mr. People's MP, I don't think these commas and marks are going to help you get cut anymore by the people in the next election, regardless of your optimism.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36640	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milorad Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36641	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to take a brief look at this amendment and say absolutely agreeing with the government's position to accept the NS amendment. I would also say that Mr Pavicevic, a member of the NSJ, caused a riot among MPs of the ruling coalition for the reason that the percentage of the amendments accepted compared with the percentage of possible votes he would have received...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36642	Mr. Cvetanovic, I broke up with my colleague Pavicevic about this. I'll get you now. I think it's about the debate in the Assembly losing every sense of a good taste. Please talk about the amendment. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36643	If I can just finish it. I'd rather say that the number of amendments accepted is equal to the number of votes you'd get on the first next...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36644	Thank you. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Riza Halimi, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic and Shaip Kamberi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the national parliaments Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Koraić, Goran Bogdanović, Branko Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Dr Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, guests, respected colleagues and colleagues, Article 31 refers to a member of the 66th Law that speaks of a transport licence. We have here suggested that in the part where you talk about what the person who applies for a licence should possess - when we talk about a good reputation to be a good business reputation, and when we talk about civil responsibility to be civil business responsibility because we think it's a more appropriate formulation of the alleged. What I still wanted to say was that Mrs. Mihajlovic had bad information. The city of Nis has made a general urban plan. In this plan, the current track is a light rail, light rail transport. The new route goes along the path of part of the track and on this basis the PDR is done and based on this is a feasibility study... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36646	Please explain to me what this has to do with passenger transport licenses. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: Very important. No, you're here arguing about the train in Nis. That's not the subject of this amendment. (Blagoje Bradić, from the place: About what, then? About the airport in Belgrade? Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36647	Dear citizens of Serbia, as we move away from this discussion and as we are more heartily defending all these amendments that we have proposed, you can see that we have actually suggested that some members of the previous 2013 law remain in force, which somewhere indicates that we will probably be in the next period, and I am absolutely sure that, with the application of this law that is being discussed, we will have even more negative effects than it was with this 2013 law. The amendment we have proposed is related to Article 80 of the Law proposal, which says that when combined transport of a unit or road vehicles loaded on railways can exceed the dimension of certain rules, you say - railway transport. In this proposal given in this first position, you say that all these instructions, etc. prescribes, determines the infrastructure manager. We felt that the formulation that was previously proposed was broader, that it is unacceptable to limit through such procedures certain things that are within the law or standards that you have spoken so much about today may well be predicting. That is why we felt that this formulation where you say that this lays down the rules of rail transport is better and better and gives more opportunities and that it is important for you to adopt this amendment. So I think more and more of the proposals that are going in this direction to indicate that this law is even worse than the 2013 law and that it will have even more negative effects in application itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36648	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36649	Respected citizens of Serbia, again one of the members who speak about the surface of those people who have worked on making this law, says they are not respected procedures, that public procurement, public discussion and debate have not been well conducted. Otherwise, a second explanation that in this, for example, inadmissible things are happening to a member – says in the second position of this member that units transported on railway vehicles must be marked in a certain way. It is a term used here – in a certain way. Neither is it said which way, nor is it referred to where certain ways will be read. It's just that it stands and hangs in this attitude like something that shouldn't stand. In the following position, it is said – railway vehicles transporting road transport units must be etc. Specializing in combined transport and in a special way marked. In the previous position it is a certain way, here is the formulation again – a special way, and what is the problem here is that fourth position where it is said – the minister prescribes a way of marking and closer to conditions etc. Our proposal, the amendment is a debt and applies to this whole article, but the essence is that in this part at least these terms are used, which is the term that is in the fourth position, which is that it can be marked in a prescribed way instead of a certain and instead of a word - specifically to say - the prescribed way. It's a better formulation that will solve all the misunderstandings about the meaning of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36650	Anyone else want a word? National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Komic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic submitted the 36th amendment together. Does anyone want a word? Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 36th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Jovan Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36651	Dear citizens of Serbia, we also tried in principle to point out all the shortcomings of the bill in its application. We tried to point to all those members who are related to some linguistic and lexic changes that will not essentially affect the real changes and reforms of this law in this area. We tried to point out that it's very bad to throw out these procedures for giving and controlling licenses. What may be most important is the part we wanted to point out to you too, the honourable MPs and you, the honourable minister, which is this particular article of 88 relating to the award of contracts in public transport and concerning procedures. Namely, this member says - a public transport obligation contract can be awarded, first, on the basis of a decision by the competent authority on the direct award of a public transport obligation contract. This member who talks about the direct award of the contract is very controversial and, according to our assessment, he directly endangers the Law on Public Procurement that we adopted several months ago in this Assembly, for which we also had many objections and many suggestions. Furthermore, in the mocking position of this member, it is said that, based on a public competition opened for all railway undertakings with respect to the principle of transparency, etc. I may, again, underline the possibility, after the submission of tenders and any previous election, to include negotiations in accordance with these principles of transparency, etc. The possibility is once again opened here to open a possible negotiation process after the public procurement process has been completed. In the follow-up to what is particularly controversial in the interpretation of this article, and this law says that, at the right point in the case of the award of the contract referred to in point 1 of point 1 of Article 1 of this Article, the public transport obligation contract cannot last for more than ten years. In the event of the award of the contract referred to in point 2 of Article 1 of this Article, the public transport obligation contract may not last for more than 15 years. So, in both cases, it stands here decadently – it cannot last for more than 10 or 15 years, and then in the next position it is given the possibility and it is said – it can be extended, if necessary, for the maximum half of the duration of the contract referred to in Article 2(2), etc. and we come to this, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, that this member has been challenged by the fundamental commitment of both the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to achieve the objectives in the coming period with the application of this law on increased passenger numbers, increased volume of goods and that this law abolishs the monopoly. If we go back to the fact that, in the previous period, the ministry is going into the transformation of the railway without a clear plan, without the procedure to carry out a partial balance with these companies with which they work, you can see that there is, in fact, an intention to introduce a private monopoly in the next period instead of a state monopoly. If you have a neglected public procurement here, which implies a certain procedure, and it is neglected in the sense that the manager after completed procedures can renegotiate with another or third, to introduce it to a small door as 10 or 15 years in business, in fact it will be 22-23 years, then it is the ultimate and sincere intention of the promoter to apply this law. The longer the debate over this law on amending this law, we can see that in fact the intention is very bad, or we can conclude that the application of this law will be even worse than the 2013 law, we can conclude that very quickly, we will probably have a change of this law that we are discussing here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36652	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36653	MP of the Democratic Party, I'm always surprised, it was also in the debate in principle, and here it is in particular, as you assume something will be. I don't know if you have a crystal ball, so you're dealing with it, but let's get back to the beginning, so you don't deceive Serbian citizens, just like you did in the previous period. No one here introduces a private monopoly, no one here works against the law. Currently, for your information, since you obviously do not know, there is only one national carrier, which is the "Serbian train". Currently, any local self-government can make its own deal and therefore the possibility of direct contact. So he can only make a contract with the "Serbian train" until it's completely, in part, open the market. Of course, there is the possibility that it will open the same thing, that through the procurement process it may conclude a contract with someone else who can be a carrier. That's what I explained in the principle debate. I'm sorry you didn't understand. So, to repeat, for now there is only one carrier in Serbia, it is the "Serbian train". Then it is logical that local self-government, city or government, because the member here writes well – the competent state authority, and the government is the government, so the province or ultimately local self-government and the city, as I said, makes a contract with the "Serbian train". That is how we perform, until that market is opened, the protection of the national carrier. So there's no second, third and fifth. In time, there will be a second, a third and a fifth. In this situation it is perfectly natural and normal that there will be a public call and that there will be a tender, where local self-government will choose the one most suited to them and offer the best conditions. That's what the law says. And, once again, let me remind you, this law is made because we want to improve that previous law and because it's done in all developed countries, and we also want to be developed. We're not going to be on the level you left us at a few years ago. We don't want to go 30 kilometers an hour, we won't. That's what you left us the railroad, and we don't agree with that, and that's why you already have parts of the railroad that go 120 kilometers an hour. (Jovan Markovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36654	Right on the line for 30 kilometers an hour? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36655	No, the Honorable Chairman, not because of 30km, but just as the Democratic Party was mentioned in a negative context and what again the minister, who knows which way in this debate, has led the citizens of Serbia astray. I am just because of the expectation of such a comment very carefully read the bill and the article that is spoken of here and pointed to all the shortcomings that arise in this proposal. If what I read by the minister interprets as a crystal ball and I'm partially misleading the public, etc., then that's what he says about her, not me, and he's talking about this bill, not this discussion. So, if it's okay for you, dear minister, to say in this point two that, after the procedures have been completed, after the tenders delivered and possibly the previous election, that the negotiations are included in accordance with these principles of transparency, etc., then you absolutely deny the procurement process. If your goal was to use this law as a transitional solution to abolishing the monopoly and setting up the market, then you had to resolve it to some members of the law that are clear, precise, unequivocal, and not to call here for transparency, to the public in the work, in the first part of the sentence, in the first position, and then in the second position you say that it can all be annulled, that someone can also negotiate outside of these procedures, that they can make changes. So, you say here – which can include negotiations in accordance with certain principles after supplying offers and possible previous elections. Well, then why the previous procedure? So, what's the procedure? Then why public procurement, if that's the case? I understand that you don't have a plan and that you don't have a vision at this point, so you're allegedly going to go through this member to bridge some things and say it's a public interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36656	You're out of time, thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36657	I just have to mention once again, many of the things you say don't stand, which in translation means they're not true. I don't want to hurt the DS members. On the contrary, I'm really looking forward to every proposal you make, because every proposal you make to me once again tells me that we as a government are doing great.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36658	Thank you. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović submitted to the 36th Amendment She answered to you. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have the right to reply.]] Here you go, Professor. (Jovan Markovic, from the city: We are negatively mentioned. Ambassador, please don't make me beg all day. But the replica on the line went several times, and it's up to the chairman to end it. [[Jovan Markovic, from the post: I have the right to reply.]] I ask MP Janko Veselinović, the only way I can somehow run the session is to let Markovic do whatever he wants. [[Jovan Markovic, from the place: I only had one replica.]] Please understand, I'm going to let MP Markovic go, so you're getting the word. Here, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36659	Dear President of the Assembly, I really understand that you were absent from the O.R. and that you did not follow the course of this discussion, but I only had one replica and I really do mind that my reply to the replica or my performances at the Assembly are characterized by the appearance of a difficult man, or as you said before – how difficult this man is. It's just, I don't think that's right. All the time we have several replicas of the ruling coalition on what we're saying, they have the right to say whatever they want, to insult as much as they want, and we don't have the right to answer that. So, when the minister said that my allegations weren't correct, I asked you again, so I, Mrs. Mihajlovic, just read article 88 of the proposed law, I read attitude 2, so if it's not true what I read, then say what is not true? Did I not read correctly or perhaps read article 89? I'm just reading the proposed law, which is a member, and you're telling me that what I'm saying isn't true, and that's why you deny your intentions that this law has some positive effects. I would just like to point out, the President-in-Office, that because of all these failures that are happening here, because this proposal directly violates the Public Procurement Act, we are going to be in a position very soon to have the Minister or someone from the ministry come up with a proposal to change the law again. As 45 members are now changing after a year and a half of this law, expect to come very quickly with an explanation that they will also change these 45 proposed members of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36660	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36661	Dear President, the Deputy Prime Minister, the PRECRET Movement has tabled five amendments to this Law on Railways. The government did not accept any amendments this time even though our amendments went towards fixing this one, as someone said earlier, a bad law, or a law that has so far shown shortcomings not because it was not good enough, but because you have no way to implement it, or because you have a poor inefficient government and a poor inefficient ministry, which shows that you are one of the world's 10 most inefficient governments. Therefore, in the amendment to Article 36. The turnaround was looking for the next one. You have, in effect, deleted the provision to award public transport obligations contracts based on a public competition by the Government on a proposal from the Railways Directorate. So you deleted this on a proposal from the Railway Directorate. Now, since you have not accepted this amendment, if you do not accept it now in the debate, you do not know who is making the proposal, and in Article 88 of the existing Law on Railways, it is said – the public transport obligation contract can be awarded on the basis of the decision of the competent authority; I will spend my five minutes additional - based on the decision of the competent authority on the direct award of the public transport obligation contract, on the basis of the competition; etc. It is said, or so far, that the proposal has been submitted to the Government by the Railway Directorate. Well, maybe it wasn't a good proposal, the Railways Directorate doesn't do it anymore. Our proposal was to assign public transport obligations contracts based on a public competition, according to the government's proposal of the restoring ministry. So we gave your ministry jurisdiction to determine how public transport obligations were awarded on the basis of a public conflict. What is it, Vice President Mihajlovic? What's so controversial about the motion for the PRECRET Movement? Why give a provision that makes the law even more non-transparent, because you don't know who's making this proposal? And when we do not know who the proposal is, we will be in a situation that one day we will have a contract that is not in line with the interest of the Republic of Serbia, "The Railway of Serbia", Serbian citizens, etc. And you won't know who made that proposal to the government. Here is where the competition remains, that conditions are prescribed by the government. On whose suggestion? He's not standing here anymore. Why didn't you replace this section on the proposal of the Railways Directorate to do so by your resolute ministry or by someone third? It would be important to know who the third person to make the proposal is. By looking at the other laws, normatively, by observing other regulations, you always know who the proposer is, not only the law, but also the sublegal acts. Why don't we have such a provision here? This will mean vice presidents, independent vice presidents of the government, because last time in communication with me, you used an expression that doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure, but here's what I'm saying, you're really showing your independence to the rest of the government, and even sometimes that might seem to be relative to the Prime Minister. I think your independence is rather controversial, but let me say, you're trying. So honored vice president, why did you refuse to accept this amendment? Are you going to allow someone else from the government to edit and propose another segment that is not within his jurisdiction, to suggest something that you should do and thus disprove you on the one hand, and on the other hand create an opportunity for the absence of transparency, so I would really like to get an answer to these questions? Of course, last time I didn't get an answer for who's responsible for the situation in Railways, who's responsible for setting up incompetent directors, who's responsible for certain things that happen in the Railways, who's responsible for non-transparent layoffs and receiving workers on Railways? So, I guess these answers today because it's not a topic, we're not going to get, like I didn't even get an answer from the president of the National Assembly why he doesn't schedule a session on the subject of the Brussels negotiations. You're planning a fashion show, and we don't have any answers to what's going on in Brussels.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36662	Don't make it up, I'll stop you now. What are you making up? Why are you making this up? Why do you want...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36663	Did you schedule a session on the subject of the Brussels negotiations?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36664	You want to apologize here for all the false excuses you've made? If you'll excuse me personally and to Parliament. You can't keep using...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36665	Excuse me if you've scheduled a session...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36666	No, don't take it out now, the extraction is worse than playing, so don't misinformed the public of Serbia. You use this pay phone very often to misinformed citizens who can't verify your allegations. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Is the session scheduled for the Brussels Negotiations? ) Here you go, initiate, you know the Rules of Procedure, you're a doctor for all issues related to the work of Parliament, so use your knowledge and suggest that I schedule this session by the Rules of Procedure to see how you will succeed and I will put your proposal on the agenda immediately, right? (Janko Vesenović, from the place: Will you give me your word?) Only if you're going to talk about the amendment. If you're going to say anything that comes to your mind, I won't let you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: No. ) Not because 200 and a few MPs voted to be President of Parliament from both the ruling majority and the opposition. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: I am talking about the amendment. Would you like to talk about the amendment, or would you like to misinformed the citizens of Serbia? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Yes, according to the amendment. Let's see.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36667	No, I won't mention anything that's tied past the amendment. So I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister to give an answer. So, six minutes and 30 seconds I was talking absolutely about the amendment and what I asked the president I took the opportunity to take advantage of, but please Vice President to give us an answer why you didn't accept that the motionist of this act was known, which is why you refused? I'll give you even 30 seconds of my leftovers?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36668	The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36669	No, Your Honor, I'm here for three hours and I'm talking about the law. You've been talking for six minutes and you haven't been in the O.R. for two and a half hours or more. Two hours and 49 minutes. So to be perfectly clear, we tended not to be a directorate but to stand for the Serbian government. It is known who oversees the implementation of this law, i.e. the Ministry of Transport in both this and every subsequent government, therefore all the rules in this regard will certainly be given, already known to the Rules of Procedure of the Government, will be given by the Ministry of Transport. We didn't think it was necessary to put it even further into the law itself, that's my answer to you. As far as not competent management of Railways is concerned, whether competent or not, whatever you call them, they have done more in the railway reform in six months than all directors have in the past 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36670	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36671	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that this amendment be rejected, therefore the amendment to Article 36, and I will indeed stick to what is the agenda point in my discussion, so I will not look back on what the previous speaker pointed to, although I appreciate the tolerance when it comes to the leader of a group of citizens. I am truly surprised, Madam President, that today we are in a position to discuss such an amendment and specifically on this amendment. Why? If you read the explanation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has delivered to us in its opinion, then you will understand everything. I think I just have to read one part of the argument. The amendment is not accepted given that it is Article 98. The Law on Railways is prescribed to oversee the implementation of this law by the Ministry. In addition, procedures for the adoption of acts by the Government are prescribed by the Government's Rules of Procedure. So these are the acts that regulate this area. In view of the above, we do not believe that it is necessary in particular to stress the role of the Ministry in the way in which the public transport obligation is granted on the basis of a public competition, which is otherwise the subject of this amendment. I think this is all that we have read extremely logically and that absolutely nothing is disputed about the explanation, or the reasons for the refusal of this amendment. I really think the Honorable Doctor of legal science overlooked some things when he wrote this amendment, and I think his oversight is simply a result of anxiety. It is noticeable that these days there is increased anxiety in the esteemed promoter of this amendment, probably in connection with those allegations from the other day around that apartment, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36672	I'm asking you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36673	I just gave you a reason why I think this is a matter of behavior when it comes to the motion of this amendment. This anxiety has also been manifested by mentioning some criminal charges or the threat that some criminal charges against some of the MPs will be filed. I just want to say in one sentence that it absolutely didn't scare us, and it's free to launch criminal charges. We won't even call for immunity, and we will continue to express all our knowledge as we have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36674	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36675	So, I'll talk about the amendment. I will respond to the incompetent statements of my previous colleague. He said the explanation states that acts are being brought at government level. Yeah, it says, "That's what it said before the expropriation of this provision of article 88." Same norms, same rules were in place before that. Now, without any changes to those standards, the government is erasing, or losing the law as a proposer of this act. Nothing's changed in norms, there's no change in the way of sublegal acts. However, through the proposal of this law, the government loses, or deletes, who is the proponent of the sublaw. Why? It's just the government's vice president, and maybe someone else knows what the legislator's intention is. I think it's bad. I believe that there is now a legal gap in this article and that in the coming period there will be a problem, Madam Vice President of the Government, a definition of what it is. The government is made up of ministries and ministries are making a proposal for acts. What is a government past the ministries? How does the government propose? It's always a ministry or an organ. That's what it said so far, except when it comes to the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36676	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36677	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I might even vote in favour of this amendment, but I'm not sure the Proposer himself will vote in favour of that amendment. So the question is, who's the promoter? It says here in my record that the Proposer is a People's MP, not to mention the name, because I can challenge the replica, but the Proposer himself said that the Proposer is a Turnover Movement. For me, it is technically impossible for one association of citizens to propose amendments. Therefore, I cannot vote for this amendment, because next time he can present himself as a woman at a price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36678	Thank you. Members Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36679	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Therefore, we have submitted an amendment to Article 37 relating to a member of Law 91, which states that, as proposed by the Ministers, the Director of the Directorate cannot, for a period of at least one year after his discharge from office, be engaged on any basis of professional or management activities in undertakings or bodies which are subject to regulation of the rail market. We have suggested that instead of this "at least one year after discharge from duty" it is replaced by the words "two years after termination of duty" and we have specified how minimal it should be that it cannot be chosen at these functions. One more thing we have proposed, which says - regarding the supervision of the application of the provisions of Article 91, Article 4, is the authority of the state which, under the law governing the matter of conflict of interest, is responsible for determining the existence of conflicts of interest. That's where we were thinking about the Agency to fight conflicts of interest. You replied that the amendment would not be accepted for reasons of Article 98. The Law on Railways provides for the supervision of the implementation of the Law on Railways to be carried out by the Ministry in charge of traffic affairs, which does not exclude the application of the provisions of the law governing the area of conflict of interest. I really don't see why it wasn't accepted to put in law that the Agency should actually bring that definitive court. I think it's much clearer to define a member, complete it, than to call it already regulated, that it's an obligation of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We know that, but we know that her recommendations are not used or respected. You have a classic case of Nis. I'll talk about Nis again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36680	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36681	Thank you. We discussed something about this in principle debate, which is a time limit for the practical ban on the director of the Directorate to perform a year after his discharge from office, according to the bill's proposal, that he cannot be engaged on any basis in professional or management affairs in enterprises or bodies which are subject to market regulation and railway services. We thought, that's where we have two objections. One is this formulation – at least a year. Does that mean maybe it can take longer? The law says, for at least a year, and then someone decides that the term should be longer, and we do not know on what basis. We don't think the legal formulation itself is good. Our main objection was to keep that deadline for two years and to comply with the Anti-Corruption Act, which, in terms of preventing conflicts of interest, says that officials two years after the termination of a certain function cannot engage in certain businesses, in order to prevent any incentive to corruption. The minister, as I recall, said if we could explain it properly enough, she would accept this amendment. What bothers me the most and why I came forward, and I can accept that you think that this deadline is more appropriate, for the reasons why you explained it and when we talked about this law in principle, but it bothers me that you were only dealing with this second part of our amendment, and this first part, you didn't refer to the deadline at all, so here, please, if you can just once again about that deadline to say whether this solution was originally given in the bill better or more meaningful or more comprehensively or any other reason why you think it should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36682	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36683	We accepted, firstly, you know, when an amendment is being made, that we can't accept the amendment in part. That's one reason. And just as I said in the principle debate, so it will be within the law, and that is that we are among those who have written an amendment concerning only those two years, so we have accepted. So that's the part we accepted. This second part you wrote, we couldn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36684	Thank you. MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarians Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 37th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36685	Dear citizens of Serbia, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I am pleased that this amendment has been accepted, on the one hand, and on the other hand I would like to point out again that it is unacceptable for you to be in the proposals of members who are being discussed here to have such failures and mistakes. As regards this article, or this amendment, as counterpart Marko Djurisic said, it refers to the alignment of this proposal with Article 38(1). The Anti-Corruption Agency Act. It's on that side okay. We had, too, a dilemma whether this formulation that is mentioned here, means the director of the Directorate for at least a year, and so on, can be engaged in these jobs that are being discussed here, in management affairs, etc. in undertakings or bodies which are subject to regulation of the rail market... So, that term is least disputed by us for the reasons that counterpart Marko Djurisic explained, but we were aware that if we suggested it, then we are at risk of not adopting the amendment, so that's why we went with this formulation. What is important to me once again, if you have made such failures in the proposal of 45 members of the law that change in relation to the law that was in 2013 and if you have not seen that this is a really controversial part and if you have not agreed many members in this law, then it is again questioned how good this law is. I will no longer repeat this thesis and attitude that I have just stated that some new proposal will probably come very soon to the adoption of this Assembly, where you will admit your mistakes again and where you will admit that the objectives and effects of this bill have not been applicable in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36686	The amendment was submitted to Article 37 by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Ivan Bauer, Vladimir Marinkovic, Vesna Besarović, Muamer Bačevac, Meho Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36687	Just to make sure the government accepts this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36688	National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovana Jovanovic and Aida Ćorovic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Jovan Markovic, Ivan Jovanovic, Dragan Sutanovac, Balša Bozovic, Goran Ćirić, Vesna Martinović and Natasa Vukkovic submitted together to the 42nd amendment. The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36689	Respected Serbian citizens, respected fellow MPs, Article 42 refers to the previous 107 member of the previous law, which says in his opening sentence that the figure of two million for certain penalties, violations, etc. is replaced by four million. Since we have over 60 points in this proposal concerning various provisions, violations, penalties, processes, procedures, etc., I felt that several very important things should be highlighted or singled out from these 40 points or otherwise suggested. I thought it was good, but it was impossible to supplement in the form of an amendment. This is a very general proposal and that, in particular, points such as 4a, point 7, point 9, point 10, relating to security, relating to the application of regulations and laws, which directly concern human health and safety, should be changed, i.e. to extend and provide for criminal provisions of up to four million dinars. Since this has not been done, and given that there is not enough attention to this proposal, I must again conclude that it is another indicator or proof of how much the proposer has gone into trouble in this case and how committed he has been to making this law. I want to point out again that we expect a very quick proposal to amend and supplement this bad law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36690	The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this proposal and the increase of some penalties to entrepreneurs and businessmen seems to me to be becoming the manner of this Assembly and the manner of certain parliamentary groups which, in my opinion, is extremely inappropriate, because we are neither competent nor we have criteria on which we can appreciate the extent of penalties, first of all, designed in a preventive spirit. It can be the government and the government has assessed what a punishment that satisfies the wider social interest. I'm really asking my fellow MPs, once again, not to go out with such suggestions. I think that this is how we demean the Parliament itself, that it seems even offensive, that the relationship with entrepreneurs, it's even offensive to me, that it's so easy for someone to take away some punishment, it's easy to take away something, it's easy to ask for something, without any criteria, and I don't want to go into any broader analysis, but believe it until those who fill the budget are citizens of the first order, and it seems to me that we're putting them in the place of the citizens of the second order, it won't be better for Serbia or for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36692	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36693	I am really sorry that the minister, Mrs. Mihajlovic, did not respond to this statement and this finding of the previous speaker, because it is not right to send out a message from this Assembly that the government of the Republic of Serbia and this state will encourage illegal actions or that it will turn its head in various cases and examples of people's safety. If you have not read the law, dear fellow MPs, or have not listened to my presentation, engage, discuss this subject a little more fully, and in the sense that you look at what is being said here and what I have pointed out. What exactly is this about? Article 107 of this law says -- with a fine of between 500,000 dinars and two million dinars, the company or other legal entities will be punished for the violation, so 60 cases are listed when they will be punished. I also thought in my explanation of the amendment, I said that point 4a), which says that the company, etc., will be punished with this penalty of up to two million, so it says - if it manages the railway infrastructure, and there is no safety certificate for the management of railway infrastructure, issued by the Directorate, Article 107, etc., etc.... Just imagine what this member is saying, or what he is offering to the citizens of Serbia. Point 7) – if it suspends public transport in a profitable relationship without the consent of the Government. We are going back to the 88-point negotiation process, where we leave the possibility of direct contracts after the public procurement process, i.e. public procurement procedures. There's an opportunity here for someone to put an end to this procedure. Citizens will experience what they experienced and after the flood, that for a year we have no international traffic and 500 thousand dinars on some routes and relations. It could take half a year, a year. What difference does it make if the people of Preboy can't make it to Valjevo or Uzice because it doesn't work? A man will pay a fine of 500 grand, and that's fine. Point 9) – if rail traffic is contrary to the regulations governing the safety of rail traffic. Dear citizens, he says – if rail traffic goes against regulations. If that happens, we'll punish someone with 500,000 dinars. I don't have a license here, no procedures, no law enforcement. A man will pay those 500 thousand dinars in some process and it's okay for everyone. Point 10) – if it uses railway infrastructure without a concluded contract on the use of railway infrastructure. Let me say it one more time - if he uses railway infrastructure without a contract. This is put into law so that someone can use the infrastructure, and there's no contract. And just before the minister warns me that I didn't read the law, that I didn't properly explain Article 88. A law that violates all public procurement laws and procedures introduces a monopoly in the way that the Ministry here, at a small door, suggests, and you now say it's okay, that despite all violations of laws and procedures, such an opportunity is foreseen and that someone pays the penalty for such a thing 500,000. And you're still looking, like there was a proposal here from various and the president of the assembly, to keep quiet about it. And you're still telling me that we don't have the right to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36694	Don't misinformed the public. We'll get a stenogram, when we find out I said something like that, we'll punish me. Or I'll punish myself, and if that's not the way it is in the stenogram, then you and I will apologize, because I can't be that tolerant and listen to fiction on my account.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36695	The Honorable Chairman, I know that...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36696	It seems that the "respectful chairman" of the order is working, and then there are different misinformations about my work, not to say something much rougher.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36697	I know it doesn't suit you what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36698	It's all right with me. You answer me most as an MP, but don't say the lies here. For the citizens of Serbia, not for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36699	I'm very happy about that, but you're not all day...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36700	The pleasure is mutual.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36701	... You haven't been in that place all day. I didn't just say it was you, but your colleagues and especially the Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36702	Somehow female, and Gordana Comic is not here, so I don't know how to understand this now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36703	Mrs Mihajlovic has just said several times that I, or DS, am the last person to talk about this issue. For God's sake, today's trains...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36704	It's a pleasure. That I don't take your valuable time in the story, so we can have it as an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36705	But I think you'll pay me back those two minutes...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36706	I want it at the end. When we get to the end. Now we'll give the minister the right to answer you, so you'll proceed. (Jovan Markovic, from the place: I did not finish. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36707	If I may say so. The reason they're no longer fines is because it would be contrary to the Law of Infractions. Well, as you know you're designing various situations for the future in a world of your own, you might remember the past so you know that this law of offense has just been passed by you and that those penalties in the Law of Infractions have been so low that the DS has brought them into parliament. Fortunately, there's going to be a new law on violations where we're going to fix it anyway. Therefore, the SNS MP who spoke about the heights of the fine, as well as our bill, is so because it is in accordance with the Law on Violations and could not be more. That's the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36708	Would you like to continue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36709	No, I'm looking for a replica now, the esteemed chairman. You've just interrupted my exposure, and it's really pointless for me to continue all of this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36710	You asked for a replica, so I gave you a replica, so you continued for over two minutes and then I let you go so you wouldn't tell me anything about my way of leading.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36711	You've taken my time a few times, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36712	So I just told you you can keep going and now you're looking for a replica. I really don't have vice presidents here by my side today, I can't let anyone else run the session, but we don't seem to understand anything. Just tell me which line, now, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36713	Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36714	Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36715	President-in-Office of the Assembly, I really think it is unacceptable for you to interrupt my presentation and give the word to Minister Mihajlović, although I did not finish my presentation, although I did have a few very important things to say in the context of the interpretation of the proposal that I had. I especially don't think it's right that I don't get a replica or that I have to explain my reasons for the replica this long, because I think they're obvious. I would once again like to protest and oppose this position of the minister, who has again been insultingly saying that I am designing the future, and then unequivocally said - your Law on Infractions, and she, as Deputy Prime Minister, must know that this Law on Infractions has been adopted in this Assembly on a proposal from the Government whose vice president she is. And he should know right now that even then we have talked about various cases concerning this Law of Infraction, and above all it concerns the safety of people who need to be more rigorously predicted, i.e. to increase the amounts for possible penalties. As far as this proposal is concerned, the Honorable President and Honorable Minister, I said in some part of my presentation, that it might have been better and smarter to exclude these members that I mentioned in this proposal because it is simply impossible and unacceptable to foresee penalties for such acts. You say here one more time – if he uses railway infrastructure without a contract on the use of railway infrastructure, there will be a fine of 500,000 to 200,000. Do you need any comment on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36716	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36717	The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, fellow MPs and MPs, of course, that the amendment should not be accepted for a simple reason that all those who do not comply with the law and for all those who do their own work, and relating to rail traffic, should not be subject to adequate penalties for all of them. The penalties are absolutely in line with the Law on Violations, and we need to know that the penalties have both preventive and repressive character. Of course, I'd like to present another piece of information on this occasion. I live in the real world, I live in the Municipality of Priboj, and I want to highlight one truth that the previous speaker pointed out, and that is the fact that the citizens of Priboj have no communication regarding railways and other infrastructures with other parts, that is, other cities and municipalities in Serbia. The citizens of Priboj have, however, railways as well as other infrastructure facilities, last year, at the time of the great elemental disaster that has hit our country. Of course, it hit infrastructure among other things and railway infrastructure on Corridor 11, on the international line of Belgrade-Bar. But thanks to the great responsibility of this government and thanks to the efforts of your ministry, Madam Minister, that railroad has been put into operation. The complete reconstruction of the infrastructure and the Savinac tunnel was reconstructed and the railway was put into traffic in May of this year, exactly as it was in line with the government's established dynamics and in line with the established dynamics of the ministry. Unfortunately, the railroad and the railway that was found by this government was in one of the least said, a catastrophic state, it found a railroad where trains on this particular route go at a speed of 30 and perhaps less kilometers per hour and you found a railroad on which not that trains went 15 kilometers per hour, but in times of the former regime and the former irresponsible government didn't even go at all. Citizens were held captive as prisoners at railway stations, waiting for unaccompanied trains. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36718	The word is made by MP Jovan Markovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36719	As for my projection of the future, just once again to help Mrs. Mihajlovic, since she obviously does not have the help of her associates to tell her that the number of "Official Messenger" is 65 from 2013, related to the Law on Violences, so that we do not remain unsettled about the projection of the future and about these flat-rate statements that we hear here every time in the Assembly of the Honored Minister. As far as this amendment is concerned, my colleague Vukojičić, to address me, I specifically chose words, and I mentioned this example of people from Priboj and the environment. I could have taken any city in Serbia. I asked how people used railway services from the House, say, with a desire to come to Valjevo, knowing that over 10 months of track was not trained, primarily because of the great flood and the disaster that we all felt together. That's not why I wanted to point out that fact. I just wanted to say that this very example of a later failure, nerada, negligentness, ineffectiveness of the state and all institutions that are related to this system is that not only is it a citizen of Priboj, but other cities can't use railway services, and that what you are proposing with criminal measures and provisions promotes unhappiness, ignorance, negligentness, public service, and therefore Serbia's citizens will have long-term problems in this area, i.e. through the use of rail services. I think it was good for you to listen to this proposal, to exempt certain points of this article, to rigorously predict the possibility of punishment for all those who threaten the safety of people in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36720	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36721	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Minister, honored guests, colleagues and colleagues, we have submitted an amendment to Article 42 relating to Article 107 that you have been talking about so far. These are criminal provisions that say that a fine of 500 000 to 2 million will punish all those who trespass against this law. If I didn't read it now, there are over 60 positions that are punishable by this article, and we suggested that a new 54a be added after point 54a. which says – if it engages on any basis on the professional or management affairs of the former director of the Directorate of which the termination of the term of office has not been over, we have proposed two years, and the ministry in Article 37, if I am not mistaken, has proposed, as regards Article 91, to be at least a year. Well, we suggested that they, since you didn't accept our amendment, who disobeyed the recommendation of this law to be punished with a fine of 500,000 to 2 million. You rejected this by reason – the amendment is not accepted for reasons contrary to Article 38(1). A law on the Anti-Corruption Agency under which an official who has ceased public office two years after the end of office cannot establish a working relationship, i.e. business co-operation with a legal person, entrepreneur or an international organisation that performs its activities in relation to the function performed by the official, except after obtaining the consent of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I'm asking now, not you, Madam Minister, but your associates who refused the amendment where we asked for at least two years to be precise, and they said it would be a year, and now they're calling for the Anti-Corruption Act that says it has to be at least two years. Please let them give a meaningful answer about what they have refused our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36722	Thank you. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradic and Ivan Karic together submitted to the 43rd amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36723	Thank you, Your Honor. Deputy Prime Minister, this is a technical amendment. I'm not a lawyer, but we talked when we were preparing this amendment and we think our amendment is better and more appropriate by writing amendments and supplementing the law. Namely, you have provided for amendments and amendments to the law to change the current Article 110 and that the deadline that stood there for three months for the adoption of sublegal acts is changed in words - two years. Some interpretation that when you change this provision of a member who speaks of a period, you are practically changing the deadline that began to run when the law was first passed. It was adopted in May 2013. So if this solution were to be adopted it would mean two years since May 2013, it would be May 2015. The intensity, as far as we understand this law, is that from this moment on in the next two years, sublegal acts and those that have not been passed and those which are now amendments and additions to the law are envisaged to be passed and therefore we believe that our solution is more technically appropriate. For many amendments and additions to the law, the deadline for the adoption of sublegislative acts has been defined by an independent member, the ones for amending and supplementing the law, not the way it was done by the bill. First, some interpretation can understand that we have set a deadline that has already passed and that in this way we do not actually bring that two-year deadline to the adoption of those documents that are now to be passed and therefore we invite you to reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36724	National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jovan Jovanovic, Aida Ćorovic submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36725	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mihajlovic, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is before us an amendment to Article 43. The bill of law submitted by the former regime's party, which is said to be being replaced by words for two years – a year and in an explanation it is stated that the two-year period is very long for adoption, for the implementation of this law and that the Serbian Railway Service cannot wait that long because of the state in which it is located. I would just ask the gentlemen of the former regime – who is it, who brought the railway into such a state and who is responsible for the fact that the railway is in such a state? In 2011, for example, Serbia's railway received 16.5 billion dinars of subsidies from the RS budget, she hired a number of people. Let's remember the amount of money spent from 2000 to 2012, which I talked about last time about investing in railways and there's no such investment anywhere. A moment ago, my colleagues speak for Nis, I will talk about a railway that passes through my municipality which is, and I can also praise both the Serbian Railways and Minister Mrs. Mihajlovic that they are a very fast railway crossing in the past period where the railway track from Belgrade to Nis towards Prakov and the highway did very quickly and I can say... ............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36726	MP, about the amendment, please. I'm advised by MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36727	The reason why I call on both Minister Mihajlović and all fellow MPs is not to accept this amendment because the deadline proposed by the Government of two years is quite appropriate and once again I would, if you would allow, support our government and the proposal of this law and invite all MPs not to vote for this amendment again and I would invite the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms Mihajlović, not to allow Nis Prakovo to rail any moment to ban the transport of goods, and especially the passengers, because we are sure that this government will do so to settle, that the traffic of goods and passengers normally works, because a large number of people living on that track, such as the Municipality of Svrljig, Književić, Zaječar depends on these railways and businesses and agriculture, and people themselves. Once again as a representative of the United Peasants' Party, I call on all MPs not to vote in favour of this amendment and I will vote in favour of the law in general because I think the law is good because I think the government, whose head is Prime Minister Vukic, is doing the right thing and I support our government.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36728	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security and Interoperability of Railways. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want to discuss it? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36729	Thank you, Madam Chairman. We have submitted an amendment to Article 56 which states that Article 2 is amended and that a new position of 10 is added after Article 9 which reads: "In the event of a change in the regulation governing the railway area, the Directorate calls on all holders to submit without delay a request for an update of the licences, and the carriers are obliged to submit this request. “ This is why we asked for this change. Because we're asking to rephrase what the legislator has submitted. In your law, you have proposed that the driver of the towing vehicle management permit should, in the event of a change in the rules without delay, be granted a licence to the Directorate for the purpose of updating. We have suggested, because there is an apparent danger that the carrier does not know and has no knowledge of changes to the rules, that the Directorate is obliged to invite the holders of the permits to come and that so, within the prescribed legal time limit that you give, that the documentation be rushed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36730	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senic, Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanovic, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic together. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Blagoja Bradić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36731	We proposed that a new position be added after Article 1 in the last year 75, which reads: “In point 3 of point 1, after the words ‘which is contained in the permit’, be placed stuck and the words are added: ‘that is to say, in the case of a change in the rules governing the railway area’, and after the number ‘9’, the words ‘and 10’ are added. “ We have done this because we believe that our amendment represents a alignment of criminal provisions in Article 75, i.e. Article 149 of the basic law with the amendment referred to in Article 56, Article 91 of the basic law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-15-0.u36732	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're done for today. The session will be held tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. Please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs to determine the number of MPs present in the hall. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by MPs Momo Colaković, Miroljub Stankovic, Nada Lazic, Vladimir Marinkovic and Laslo Varga. We move on to a search in detail on the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Supplemental Law on Security and Health at Work pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that they are invited to attend today's session by Aleksandar Vulin, Minister for Labour, Employment, Borar and Social Affairs, Zoran Lazic and Branka Gajic, Assistant Minister Vera Bozic Trefalt, Director of the Department for Safety and Health at Work and Dragan Vulevic, Head of the Department of Family Care and Social Protection of the Ministry. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Aleksandar Senić, academician Ninoslav Stojadinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Goran Bogdanović, Branka Karavidić, Slobodan Homen, Blagoje Bradić and Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Dr. Blagoja Bradić has the word.
