ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35455	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. I ask that we listen first to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. I thank you. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 147 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has Dr Ljiljana Kosorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35456	Thank you. I'm asking the Ministry of Education, Mr. Srdjan Verbic. It is a problem that has arisen in the functioning of schools, including the Technical School in Koserić. In the beginning of September, all schools in Serbia received a Regulation on criteria and standards for funding institutions that carry out the work of secondary education and education, and this Regulation sets out the price of services based on the number of working hours, i.e. the number of employees to achieve the annual work plan of school, school programme, size and equipment of school, number of departments and students, total number of employees, degrees of their education and material costs. What's the problem? The problem is that, in this Regulation, Article 11 provides that schools with up to 11 departments have 0.5 executives in the offices of accounting chiefs, as well as the Technical School in Koserić belong to schools of this proportion because it has eight departments. Under this rule, Kosjerić Technical School, has no right to a financial bookkeeping worker, nor an administrative worker, and this Regulation stipulates that the head of accounting with 50% working time, should carry out all the tasks of the accounting chief, the financial and accounting worker, the administrative worker, which is simply impossible because of the large amount of work. These jobs at the Technical School in Koserić, he has done only one worker so far, and that's the head of accounting with 100% norm, and it's really very large jobs, as head of accounting. The Head of Accounting who ran the accounts and drew up financial reports in accordance with the Accounting and Audit Act, in particular making periodic and annual accounts, participating in the preparation of the school’s financial plan and purchase plan, preparing a financial report on the operation of the school, taking care of the timely and accurate recording of any changes in accounting and other records and on the correct determination of the school’s financial outcome, working with school authorities and employees in relation to the performance of their work, working with non-school entities in relation to the performance of all the jobs, taking care of the school’s search for other persons and taking steps to collect it, keeping track of the school’s debt to other persons and taking steps, organising and coordinating the work of the accounting services, participating in public procurement operations where the school manager is involved, monitoring the legal and other regulations, professionally preparing and carrying out activities relating to over the institution’s payments. It also adds financial and bookkeeping activities to be carried out by this worker, salary accounts, salary fees, other receipts of staff keeping records, accounting for expenses, paying employees and other persons in receipts based on work in employment, handling money, keeping a cash register, receiving cash payments from employees and students, performing jobs relating to the insurance of pupils, etc., as well as administrative workers' jobs which are also not small. Under this rule, the technical school is entitled to only part-time, 50% of the standards for administrative and financial staff. The question is – can the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, i.e. Minister to review the proposed regulation and amend it in the part where 0.5 executives were proposed on the affairs of the head of accounting, that schools that have up to 11 departments which include Koseric Technical School to get one executive with 100% working hours due to a large amount of work, since in this short time, there are problems in school functioning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35457	Now it's Olena Papuga's turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35458	Thank you, President Gojkovic. I ask my question to the Minister of Agriculture and I ask – Agriculture Minister Snezana Bogosavljevic Boskovic said the budget cuts for this year 2015 will not affect the beneficiaries of subsidies in agriculture. At that time, she said the reduction in the agrarian budget was the result of a decision to use budget resources rationally, to subsidise agricultural areas up to 20 ha this year and not to grant subsidies for the lease of state agricultural land. That was when the budget for this year was realized. In fact, the subsidy amounts to 12,000 dinars per hectare, half of which is in money, and the other half is in fuel and in fertilizer and that part is refunded. There are two months left by the end of this year, i.e. until the introduction of a new agrarian budget within the State register for 2016, and payments for this current year, I am particularly referring to the obligations under the Law on Late Encouragings. The couples suspect that the agrarian budget has broken, there is no money for the commitments that follow them because at least 12 billion and maybe more dinars have not been entered into that agrarian budget. The lack of money for commitments to farmers has most likely not been obtained by the Ministry of Agriculture because the Minister of Agriculture is looking for excuses and talking about the processing of orders, that the management documents are being returned to completion, and the incorrect belief is that 70% of these legal obligations have been paid. It remains suspected that the government will remain in debt for this year 2015 to registered owners and to make dissatisfactions. The couples the LSV deputies contacted say they are waiting for subsidies to be paid. I mean those 6,000 dinars per hectare paid in cash. They gave their demands neatly, registered their own holdings, or restored their holdings, but so far they have not received anything. According to some, only one third of these requirements have been processed so far. They asked if this year's agrarian budget broke, that it was minus 12 billion dinars and that the ministry was using various, different ways to justify it, I have already stated, that the story is that the requests are in processing, etc. I ask – what will be the agrarian budget for next year? My questions for the Minister of Agriculture are – one, what are the debts to farmers based on direct payments per hectare for the regression of fuel and fertilisers for 2015? So I ask the minister to tell me -- how many applications have been filed, how many have been processed and how much has been paid? The second question, what is the debt to farmers based on direct hectare payments, I mean these 6,000 dinars that are paid in cash, how many applications are filed, how much has been processed and how much has been paid? Under three, what are the debts on the basis of milk premiums, for which months has the premium been paid? Under four, what is the debt to farmers from the rural development programme, the capital investment subsidy, I mean mechanisation, equipment, anti-building networks, irrigation systems, the purchase of basic herds for 2014 and 2015, how many requirements are processed, what is the total amount and how much is paid? The second question is also asked by the agriculture ministers, which refers to the implementation of the IPA programme, since the end of the year is coming again and the IPA programme will be available to us at the end of this year or early next year, but for the implementation of such programmes, appropriate preparation is needed, the establishment of accreditation of operational structures, etc. It's the end of the year and I'm asking, have we met any demands and I don't think so? I ask – how does the ministry think it will do so by the end of the year and will we lose help from European funds for the development of agriculture and rural development because of our inability to arrange the system and fulfill what the EU expects us to do, and will we be able to help our people? We almost didn't meet anything, and the end of the year is near. The only thing we did was sign agreement that we need money from European funds. Maybe, but under what conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35459	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35460	It's obvious it's the end of the year, and we haven't met the conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35461	Thank you. The word has an Anamaria Vicek.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35462	I thank the esteemed president. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, please, President, if you can create conditions for my work, because I can't speak in this kind of noise. I ask the question of Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Dr. Srdjan Verbic. I'm going to ask these same questions, and I actually handed it over to the Office in writing. That's what I'm saying because of the note. Having regard to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, that is, the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, as well as the implementation of the Regulation on criteria and standards for financing an institution that carries out the activity of primary, or secondary education, as well as the expert guidance on the establishment of a department and way of funding in primary and secondary schools for school 2015/2016. For a year, we've come across a series of concerns and problems that I'm looking for information and an explanation on this path. I would like to emphasise that after a series of unsuccessful professional trainings in these issues, we are currently in the process of agreeing on a higher political level, but we still believe it is important for these issues to be raised in this higher home, in this institution, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The first question I would ask is: what are the schools for which the minister used his discretion under Article 7 paragraph 14 of the Regulation and gave consent to approve the department with less than 15 students and which department, i.e. how many students is it? How many schools in the Republic of Serbia with combined classes in the first cycle of education and education and on what grounds is legally or professionally justified combination of first and second grade primary school when it can normally be combined first with third grade or second with fourth grade? How many schools are based on Article 8(2). The Regulation addressed the Ministry with a request for recognition of a smaller or greater number of perpetrators than the number set out in the Regulation for how many jobs? How many jobs have the ministry agreed on? Is it considered silence by the administration if the ministry does not respond in time to these requests and what is the deadline? Whose responsibility is it to decide when applying the rulebook, which of the extracurricular staff will keep the school and who will be placed on the list of technological surpluses? What is the procedure for selecting rules in case only one can be retained under the Regulation of two professional associates, and this is the school where the teaching takes place and in the language of the national minority? Is it a priority to keep a job as a person who has been employed indefinitely so far, but does not speak the language in which teaching takes place and a person who has been employed at a certain time, but speaks the language of teaching? How does the score take into account language knowledge, if it is a school in which the teaching is conducted and in the language of the national minority? What number of students is imported against CENUS? Physical number, i.e. how many real persons attend classes in a particular department, or a real number of students increased by two or three, for students who attend IOP, according to an individual educational plan? How is the Regulation on criteria and standards for financing an institution that carries out the activity of primary, or secondary education applied, in the event that the school also has a student's home? In the end, I'd like to ask when the Ministry will do the revision, or the correction of the regulations, in order to get along with the specific problems of schools? Who will be the members of this task force who will make amendments and additions to the Regulations and will be included in this work by representatives of national councils of national minorities? In fact, the regulation currently in place does not recognise small schools at all, as we have just heard from a colleague, does not recognise large associations of schools that in most cases carry out classes in several institutions, and does not recognize schools with specific programs for gifted students and has problems with the specificities of school in the languages of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35463	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35464	Thank you, Madam President. My first question today is for the minister of justice. The Presevo municipality today has neither the basic court nor the main public prosecutor's office. Its citizens must travel up to 30km in one direction for ordinary court proceedings in order to exercise their rights before judicial institutions. This is contrary to the principle of bringing justice to the citizens. This puts them in an unequal position with citizens of other municipalities. I would like to point out that the Law on Courts and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, Article 3 paragraph 1 of point 10, provides that the Court of Justice in Bujanovac also covers the area of Presevo municipality, which literally means that the municipality of Presevo does not only have a basic court, but also does not have a judicial unit. A legislative solution adopted in spite of the submitted amendments then by the only Albanian MP in parliament, which asked for a special basic court to be established in Presevo, as well as a public prosecutor's office in particular. The arguments given by the minister, when Presevo passed laws without basic and judicial institutions, are based on the fact, I quote, that the number of residents who own the Presevo municipality does not justify the existence of the court and the prosecution. With reminders, the minister then handled data from the 2011 census, on which Albanians did not go out, and as a result of the incomplete census, Presevo reportedly had only 3,080 residents. However, we now have a different situation. Since the last census, carried out in 2011, did not provide accurate data on the number of inhabitants of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities, as the Albanian community did not participate in the process, which led to the official number of residents of these three municipalities, which occurred by censusing 68% compared to the 2002 census, the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government in 2015 hired an international team of independent experts tasked with assessing the number of residents of the three municipalities. The expert team's report on the assessment of the population of these municipalities highlights -- in Serbia as well as in many other countries, official population statistics used to create policies and budget planning are based on data collected on periodic signatures that are carried out approximately every ten years. The list is used to establish the number of common populations in the absence of a national population register that is regularly updated. The number of residents of each municipality is used to determine the funds allocated by the central authorities to each municipality, the main source of local authorities' income in Serbia. But the report also highlights the following. The official number of residents is also used for a number of other plans, from planning the number of employees in local administrations to the distribution of courts and prosecutors' seats. According to the report by international experts, the Presevo municipality now has 29,600 residents, compared to 3,080, which was used as a ratio when adopting the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts. Therefore, a sufficient number of residents, the existence of a state border that generates a sufficient number of cases, respect for the principle of approaching justice and justice to citizens and the principle of economicity of the proceedings - as little cost to the court as possible, the fewer costs to the parties, represent sufficient reasons to justify the establishment of the basic court and the basic prosecutor's office in Presevo municipality. The prosecution would also cover the Bujanovac municipality's territory. Therefore, my question to the Minister of Justice is – will the Ministry of Justice, after this data, launch an initiative to amend and supplement the Law on Seats and Areas of the Courts, in order to establish a basic court and a basic public prosecutor's office for the municipality of Presevo? My second question is for the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has concluded several interstate agreements with Macedonia. Here, and at this session, we have before us a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of tourism, which should certainly be welcomed as a trend to strengthen regional co-operation. In line with this, and in the spirit of strengthening good neighbourly relations, my question for the government of the Republic of Serbia is – will a small border crossing with Macedonia be opened in the municipality of Presevo, the village of Miratovac and Lojana, and when? If not, what is the obstacle to the opening of such a crossing, and whose opening would certainly speed up the cross-border co-operation of neighbouring municipalities and help their local and economic development, but also facilitate freedom of movement for citizens of Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities who also have strong family ties with neighbouring villages in Macedonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35465	Thank you. The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35466	Thank you, Madam President. My question was addressed to Police Minister Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, BIA chief and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandr Vukic. Although, if anyone else is called, there is no problem in getting those people involved in the answers, if they think they can give an answer that will be even more meaningful than Minister Stefanovic allowed himself at a press conference yesterday. The question is - who and whose warrant did he listen to the phone and intercept the phone conversations of Democratic Party President and Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic? We ask the fake doctor, Neboja Stefanovic, to show a minimum of decency, professionalism and to give the right answer, not a performance he staged at a press conference yesterday, allowing himself things that no police minister should allow himself. In addition to Minister Stefanovic's saying without any investigation and without any evidence that he guarantees that no one was listening to Bojan Pajtic, we expect him to say who did this, in his opinion, since their job is not only to listen to illegal citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also to prevent other and third parties from doing such a thing. We, don't mind, so I ask other factors, not just Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, we have no reason to believe what that man says. On Sunday, police entered the City Committee of the Democratic Party's premises, after which the MUP issued a statement that it was not true and that no member of the MUP was in the premises of the City Committee of the Democratic Party. After the Democratic Party released footage showing that what the MUP claimed was not true, police representatives were in the Democratic Party's premises, it turned out that these people were there without the knowledge of the Belgrade police chief, as he himself admitted in his statement. Our question is - who gives orders to the members of the MUP, unless it is the director of the Belgrade police? Our question is - who gave orders to those poor police officers who stood in the rain for hours to miss exclusively citizens who have Serbian Progressive Party membership cards? Also, our question is – on what legal basis and on what legal basis does the right for citizens to move depending on whether they have Serbian Progressive Party membership cards or not? Obviously, it is a terrible abuse of police by the SNS, by Dr Nebojja Stefanovic, and what he is saying is that it is only a regular procedure within which police enter opposition parties before scheduled rallys, probably because it was the last time when the SRS and when Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vukic, were in power for the last time. At the time, police were entering, not only opposition parties but also media editors who wrote what did not like the regime and probably why Dr Stefanovic believes it was a regular procedure. When we talk about this, we should return to the Security Control Committee session which unequivocally established that the VBA was gathering information about opposition parties. Of course, there was no responsibility, because we have every investigation and it begins and ends with words - I do not give Gasic and Loncara, and it ends in that. And it should also be referred to the claims made by the President of the Republic since 24 December 2013, that someone is listening to his phone as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35467	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you. Ambassador Alexander Jovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35468	Thank you, Your Honor. I have a question for the MUP, and I'd say one thing and I'd ask Mr. Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, why is the DS afraid of the police? Why are they irritated by the word police? Police are working on behalf of the people, in the service of the people, protecting and creating conditions for maximum security at all possible assemblies. Why are you gentlemen afraid of the police? On the other hand, what are you talking about? You had 300 people at a rally against "Biograda on Water". I'll just remind the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia, I don't know if they've been following, but only for a little while if we can hear each other, last year Canadian singer Justin Bieber was arrested, and the girls organized in Belgrade through social networks and 700 girls gave him support on Calemegdan ahead of his arrest, 700 girls. You've had 300 people from all over Serbia who you've brought to stand up to this project. When you talk about listening, who's in the interest of listening to Mr. Pitiæ? With 5% of the vote, it must be a major threat to power, for the SNS, for the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's no threat. Who's in the interest of who? I ask one specific question to bring to the public as soon as possible as possible and by whose order, and who allowed and approved it and to listen to Alexander Vukic in the period from 2008 to 2012? That's what we want to see. Speaking of your transcripts, what kind of transcripts are these? Did you see that? They took a sheet of paper, typed who said anything. That doesn't look like any credible document, no BIA or MUP. Don't use tricks anymore, don't destabilize the country, don't make a great deal of it from Mr. Pitiæ or the martyrs, because he's not a martyr. He's the man who ruined the economy in Vojvodina, who also robbed the Vojvodina Development Bank and the Investment Bank and everything he could devastate, he did. That's why I'm asking the Minister of the Interior to come up with that information. Also, we want an investigation to be carried out and to show to the public what kind of connection Danilo Reddzovic, owner or editor of "Telemeter". And we all know that Mr. Pajtic is behind that site and that the only goal of that site, or editorial policy, is to attack Alexander Vukic and his family. That's what we watch and see every day. Why couldn't a gentleman go on a polygraph? Why? We're asking that particular question. Don't make a Serbian circus. Serbia has become a regulated country, respected in the world. A country that is trying in every way possible to recover economically. You destroyed her while you were in power, but you're doing the same thing successfully now in the opposition, because you're just serving yourself to fabricate affairs. There's not a bit of truth here. We haven't seen a single argument anywhere, as we haven't seen when you attacked the project "Belgrade on Water". We've never seen one thing that someone can catch up to and say -- there's something logical here. You guys understand that your perilous policy will most likely take you under the census. We won't stop it. But don't accuse anyone of listening to Bojan Pajtić, because that man is more in roming, because he's scrambling with Briony and the Croatian coast. So, maybe someone's listening to him outside, but nobody's listening here. It didn't do him any good. A man has completely destroyed his own party and state, that no one is interested anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35469	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35470	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People, first I have questions for the Minister of Justice, Mr Nikola Selakovic. At the very beginning of the question, I would like to commend him because a few days ago he resolved the first private perpetrator for unwitting work, because my question is precisely about the work of private court, or private perpetrators, which is specifically the case. It is about the costs that the perpetrators have in particular for citizens who owe for municipal services or, for example, for wrong parking where the fine is 1,200 dinars, and where court enforcers charge for the execution and fines of 1,200 dinars. What's even worse, let's say that unconscious parking is something to pay for, but for utility services, for debt like taking out garbage, such as electricity debts, such as water debts from a few thousand dinars come performers list things, list people and in a rural area where people especially pensioners in rural areas have a hard time living and can't easily pay all taxes. As a result, my question concerns the minister and I submit this question on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, whether it can limit up to 5,000 dinars of debt for municipal services to private contractors or whether the services of private contractors can be reduced at least three times, their costs for penalties for municipal services, and the amount of up to 5,000 dinars. This is extremely important and I sincerely ask the Minister of Justice to take this into consideration, because this is a question where citizens speak to us daily in local self-governments as well as to us in parliamentary clubs, and I think this should be resolved very quickly. The second question concerns Mr Srdjan Verbic's Minister of Education. We ratified the European Bank's loan agreement to rebuild schools in Serbia a few months ago. That tender is over, the papers are supposed to start full steam. A tender for the reconstruction of 52 schools throughout the Republic of Serbia has been completed, but unfortunately the works are at the very beginning and very difficult to take place. Why is that? First, because the tender was won by some company from Novi Sad, not to mention their name now, with simple insight into the APR, it can be seen that I have only a dozen permanent employees, and the company has been given to renovate, i.e. to arrange 52 schools throughout Serbia. And now I'm asking myself and the minister, and so are you fellow MPs, if one firm with ten permanent employees can arrange 52 schools. And, as long as it takes, and if we all get confused when we need to finish one job like that, and most of all, the Ministry of Education that's the bearer of this job, because there's a working group out there that's carrying all this. On the other hand, my question specifically applies, who will compensate for the costs of local self-government, schools that have to drive children to other schools compared to school facilities that are renovated, or adapt or build, and especially if schools are in the rural area where they need dozens of kilometers to the neighboring village. Every day, children are being transported, and it's causing a lot of trouble. So I ask the Minister of Education to personally engage in this problem, to update this job, to bring this job to an end, because it is of general interest to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35471	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Branko Djurović, Mirko Cikiriz, Natasa Vučković, Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need to consider the proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible and the arguments you received with the change of the agenda. The sitting shall include a draft agenda for the sitting before setting out pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under the urgent procedure of the proposals for supplementing the agenda and the proposal to merge the debate. The Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, the Information Society, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda, a summary list of candidates for members of the National Educational Council. I'm putting the motion for an emergency procedure to be voted on. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 170 MPs, out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. A group of 15 MPs, the DS MPs' groups, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, a proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 173 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Enis Imamovic, Sabina Dazdarevic, Aida Ćorović, Nenad Canak, Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Djordje Stojsic, Nada Lazic and Mr Dejan Capo have suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 174 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Krstimir Pantic suggested putting on the agenda a draft resolution on crimes in and around Srebrenica from 1992 to 1995. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – two abstentions – voted 175 of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the termination of the function of the President of the Securities Commission. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 41 of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council has proposed that the draft decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office should be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 177 of the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on the Conversion of Loans in the Swiss francs to the euro, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 18 September. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 179 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Agency for the Licensing of Banks Managers be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 179 out of the 179 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 16 MPs of the DS Group proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the draft law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 179 of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there was no vote of 177 of the total presence of 181 MPs for – four, against – the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The SVM parliamentary group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, no one, with abstentions, voted 33 of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda be supplemented by a point – a proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September. Does the magistrate of Alexander Jerkov, a people's messenger, want a word? Here you go. I ask Alexander Jerkov to apply, and Borislav Stefanovic to sign off.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35472	I thank the president. So it is an old bill that the National Assembly has rejected seven or eight times, it seems to me, to the general shame of all MPs who do not vote to put this into the agenda. It is about the proposal, to supplement an amendment to the Penal Code, which would only include one change in it, to include in crimes that do not go out of date a crime – stealing babies. The background of this legislative proposal is that on 5 March 2013, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the Republic of Serbia violated the right to privacy and family life of our fellow citizen Zorica Jovanovic from Batocina, whose son was born 30 years ago, disappeared from maternity care, and of course, as with all other parents with these problems, explained that he died and was not allowed to see the body of the baby and she sued the Republic of Serbia after she exhausted all legal resources here. The court ruled, and that it was its right to privacy and family life, injured and obliged the Republic of Serbia to adopt legislation by 9 September 2014 to prevent such cases in the future. After years of obstruction by then-President of the Assembly and current Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, Minister of Health Zlatibor Lončar, a working group was eventually created to deal with this problem. All parent associations are extremely unhappy with the way this working group works, the way it works on that document is progressing, and this proposal is only a proposal to bridge this problem, because very often parents happen to see that by the time they realize that something was wrong, it becomes too late and they can no longer sue the Republic. Of course, the question arises – is it satisfaction? The question arises – can there be any satisfaction in people who experience such a tragedy? I don't think anyone who hasn't experienced it can understand at all what these people are facing. I repeat, I think it's a shame for most people in the National Assembly, which is eight times we propose this bill and eight times no one says a single word to support it. So I'm asking you not to wait for the bell this time, but to vote, maybe even think for yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35473	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -21, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a Law on Freedom of Fear. Do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35474	Madam President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I think the tenth time we propose a bill of freedom of fear, which is getting more and more on its agenda these days. Once again, I appeal to my colleagues to support this bill, which has only four members, which essentially introduces the first time into our legislative system and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, the possibility that due to the abuse of the executive authority, in the area of the threat of freedom, the rights of Serbian citizens, and through the abuse of the authority of the executive body, the appropriate sanctions are carried out, as provided for in the Criminal Code. This bill has its long parliamentary tradition in this country. The same is so in vain to this Assembly, as you will not pay attention to Serbia's people's random need, that as a parliament, we give the citizens the opportunity to protect themselves from self-abuse, abuse, pressure, intimidation by the executive government, which unfortunately happens every day. We've had a lot of examples. I'm just gonna name a few. Police raiding the DS room, bringing thousands of police officers into the City of Belgrade to stop the proud 300 who also defended the Termopil, and toppled a powerful Persian empire. Don't ever forget that. When you carry on your vainness and false sense of greatness, never forget that these citizens will not. And secondly, this country is being tapped by the president of the country in 2012. According to the police minister, the prime minister was listening from 2008 to 2012. According to the BIA chief, no one was listening to anyone since 2003 without a court ruling. We need a law like this just to make it impossible for anyone, including the head of the opposition, to listen like Bojan Pitiæ, without the court's decision today. If Vucic is tapped – is there a court decision, since the head of BIA says so? If there is no one and when it will respond to what Aleksandar Vukic has been tapped and who will respond in 2012 to what Tomislav Nikolic has been tapped and who will answer and who was listening to Bojan Pajtic today? We don't have an answer for that. We need this law to stop these people, whoever is in power, from trying to threaten the rights of Serbian citizens, from being politicians, from choosing politicians. It's completely irrelevant. Since you're going to ignore this thing again, I appeal to you once again. Think about everything, and most of all about a false sense of size, which is just a paralysmatic, which you see around you. This law could be on your...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35475	Thanks, it's been a while. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -20, against - two abstentions - no, 161 of the total attendance of 183 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a DECISION ON THE EDUCATION OF THE ANKET COMMITTEE FOR THE REFERENCE OF THE ACTIVITIES AND ENVIRONMENTS THAT led TO THE HELIKINIAN ACCIDENCE IN WHICH LIFE LOST THE SEVEN PERSONS. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35476	Thank you. These days, about 200 days, 205 of March 13th this year, when seven people were killed in a helicopter accident in a rescue mission that was decided by Defence Minister Bratislav Gasic. Several times I made a proposal to the National Assembly to educate the survey board to determine all the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. I've been directly asked twice by the MP's question to the Secretary of Defense. In his final response, the defence minister again denied me the answer, believing that he had the right to do so and that, with the explanation that the answer to my two questions that are part of the Committee's education decision could be accused of some individuals and that they could not answer. I know that sentence won't mean anything to anyone, but I'll do it again. The Minister of Defence tells me my questions – I cannot answer you because it would blame some people. That's what the Secretary of Defense is blaming, and he's hardly accusing him. The two questions I'm asking the defence minister, which there are no answers in any of the two reports available to the public, are very clear, very short, and they're really probably accusing some people, but that's what this is about, the responsibility of failures, the inaction and the act of tragedy in which seven people have lost their lives, the defamation and defamation of these people, and then I'm not talking about it. The first question is, on whose information and information did the minister make a decision on the rescue mission "Helicopter"? There's no answer to that. In his last address, the minister refused to answer me. That would be sufficient reason to resign both for the shift and for the resolution. The second question is, who changed the flight plan once the helicopter was already on its way and at the end of its rescue mission to Belgrade, who changed the flight plan? There is no answer to that question in any report. In his reply to which I use the parliamentary question written, the minister also directs me, which is outrageous, unforgivable, and shows an incomparable tendency to mock the rule of law, which we are witnessing daily from people in public affairs, to choose to address the prosecution and to supply me with data from the investigation. I'm not asking the data from the investigation, I'm asking the Minister's answers which, fortunately for all of us, the mission ended well, would be obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35477	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 163 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for the Law on Planning and Office of Space and Neighbourhood. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35478	Six months ago, my colleague Pavicevic and I gave the bill on planning and planning of space and settlements. It is a law that is necessary for this rag of the existing law to be brought to the fore, namely to build in Serbia, regardless of other difficulties, there is no difficulty that the state itself makes with one bad law. The existing law is a rag because nine changes have passed and if these changes were perfect, that would be difficult to implement, and I'm afraid they weren't perfect. The basic reasons for changing the existing law and passing the good law that we have proposed is that the existing law is unseen, which is contradictory, inconsistent and unusable, which we witness every day. Every serious investor sees it absolutely. In this current law, the state's involvement in the defined rights of local self-government is present. The constitution defines those rights. The cruel hierarchy obliges them to adopt a number of plans, which is not good for serious construction, fragmentation, jurisdiction and accountability in procedures and procedures, etc. We promised Minister Mihajlovic, a colleague of Pavicevic and I, that we would propose a good law to her. That law was proposed to her six months ago, that's this text I'm talking about right now, and she didn't say anything about it. I can only conclude that it is an obstruction of serious construction and that it is the creation of conditions for the largest illegal construction in Serbia, in the history of Serbia, which is "Belgrade on Water", which was launched without any legal conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35479	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 MPs out of a total of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a National Assembly Resolution on Recognition and Conviction of Genocidals against Jermene committed in the Ottoman Empire in the period of 1915. Until 1922. THE word has been held by Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35480	On 20 April this year, my colleague Pavicevic and I gave the National Assembly's motion for a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. The reasons are because this is in accordance with the principles set out in Article 16. Serbia's constitution, because it is in accordance with the UN Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Crime, genocide, adopted on 9 December 1948, because it has been 100 years since the execution of the genocide on 24 April, because more than 20 countries, including the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and others, have already brought such declarations and resolutions, and all of these were the reasons that at that time, and now it is not too late, and this parliament to bring such a resolution. I think it is unnecessary to waste time explaining why Serbia should adopt such a resolution, why this parliament should adopt such a resolution. The word genocide is unfortunately very present in the modern history of our people and this state. It is also mentioned as part of something that has been done against the interests of the citizens of this country, but is also mentioned as something that some individuals, not in the name of the state, but in their own personal name, have done, and left the eternal mark on the people's and state's cheeks. I think these are all the reasons for Serbia to predicate itself, to join these destructive states, which in an adequate way condemned the genocide that was committed 100 years ago. Of course it has nothing or at least nothing to do with the current Turkey, nor with our relations with Turkey today, but it has to do with the correcting of a major accident that took place by humanity 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35481	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 172 MPs out of a total of 183 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic have suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a LAW ON THE SPECIFIC EDUCATION OF THE LAW, the People's MP Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Ministers Ljajic, the Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, Parliamentarian Zoran Zivkovic and I suggest that our proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education be included in the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Session. I remind all my fellow Members and fellow MPs that Mr. Zivkovic and I, a year ago, respected gentlemen, have referred to the assembly procedure of this bill because we felt that the obligation of our institutions, and I remind once again here that our Assembly is our central political institution, to respond to a major problem, the great floods of plagiarism that we faced first of all in the last year, respected gentlemen. I think that MP Zoran Zivkovic and I have very adequately suggested that in the Law on Higher Education, the member who contains the guidance on the principles of higher education in our country is changed. Our proposal, respected gentlemen and ladies, is for us to introduce the principle of academic honesty in the Law of Higher Education just as a response to the great problem of plagiarism, and academic honesty, to remind ourselves once again of all of us here, respected gentlemen, is based on the independent creation of written works and strict respect for other people's copyrights. I remind Mr. People's MPs that plagiarists and auto-plagiarists are the most severe violations of the principle of academic integrity, gentlemen. I remind my fellow Members and fellow MPs once again today that the European Parliament in its Resolution on Serbia has also announced that in Serbia our institutions and our academic community have failed to deal with a major plagiarism problem. We believe, gentlemen, that it is not too late now that our Assembly is finally, by accepting the debate on this bill, and I hope by voting for this bill, it reacts to a major problem that is faced not only by our academic community, whose academic integrity is at stake, but also by society as a whole, and every citizen of ours who, by congratulating us, is trying to provide himself with some opportunities in his life. I hope we vote for honesty today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35483	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 MPs out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Senic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Legal Persons He is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted against 169 MPs from the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for an amendment and the addition of the Taxes Act on Property The Word has a National MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35484	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow MPs, the parliamentary group Boris Tadic-SDS-ZZS-ZS delivered the draft law amending and supplementing the Property Tax Act to the Assembly at the end of June. The essence of the law was to make it easier for citizens to have their difficult situation brought about by work and by the negative results of work and the impact of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. During June of the month, according to the Property Tax Act, solutions for 2015. These solutions were bigger, in some cases, 10, 20, 30, 80%, and in some cases more than 2014, because the area in which there is immobility has been changed, because for the first time, the land tax on which the property is located and all of this has brought a large number of Serbian citizens, who are already burdened with numerous problems, because they have fewer pensions, because they have fewer salaries, because they cannot find a job, and the state has increased their commitment in some cases more times. This law is short. He has two members. The essence of this law is very simple. It is said that, until the expiry of the Law on the temporary regulation of the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries, i.e. earnings and other fixed incomes from public beneficiaries and the Law on the temporary regulation of the payment of pensions of the property tax base cannot be established in a larger amount and in a different way compared to the established property tax bases for immovable property in 2014. So what we're looking for in these supplements is that the property tax, which citizens pay in 2015 and in the coming years, as long as the laws on wage cuts and earnings and pension cuts apply, are not higher. I call upon you to accept this law. He will make life much easier for the citizens of Serbia. The funds from this tax go to local self-government. Unfortunately, they have the least effective tax collection and I think there is another way to charge local budgets, and not in this way to directly add to citizens who, I say, are in a difficult position anyway because of these laws another tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35485	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 164 MPs from the total of 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Branko Karavidic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35486	Thank you, Madam President. The Law on Public Information and Media has been in force since 13 August 2014 and its adoption under a set of media laws has been announced as a major reform shift. The Anti-Corruption Alliance published a report in February 2015 on the ownership structure and control of the media in Serbia. Although the report deals with the situation in the media regarding ownership structure and control over the period preceding the adoption of media laws, the Council still referred to its report and to a solution in the new law whose amendment I propose. In the opinion of the Council, there are in practice shareholders who own less than 5% of the shares in the issuer's ownership structure, and who exercise effective control over editorial policy, as well as sources of funding for multiple media at the same time. I believe that an existing solution that does not provide for the registration of all direct and indirect media owners, but only those whose shares are above 5%, opens up a space for abuses, does not guarantee to a sufficient extent the transparency of the ownership structure and creates conditions for non-transparent impact on social flows directly, but also indirectly through the media. Article 1 of this proposal proposes to amend Article 39 paragraph 8 by providing that all owners are entered in the Register directly, indirectly, regardless of the size of the share in the founding capital of the issue, as opposed to the solution provided for so far to be entered only data on owners whose share exceeds 5%. The proposed amendment of the Law on Public Information and Media will ensure transparency of the issuer's ownership structure, or media, which will contribute to restoring citizens' trust in the media, while reducing the possibility of possible abuses and illicit influences on the media or through the media. Otherwise, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, which is certainly the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as the control of the legality and availability of legal persons. I call upon all my colleagues to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35487	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 MPs from a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35488	Thank you, Madam President. Dear People's MPs, the existing Law on corporate tax is prescribed that the corporate tax rate is 15%. The SDS parliamentary group, Zeleni, Together for Serbia – Boris Tadic believes that reducing this rate to 10% would represent a redistribution of the real sector from a high profit tax rate, and this would also be an additional impulse to attract foreign investment, but also to increase the business activity of the domestic real sector. The Law amending the Law on corporate income tax will create conditions for the real sector, companies, cooperatives and other market participants to be distributed fiscally, through a reduction in the tax rate on corporate income tax. It will further motivate foreign investors to invest in our economy while increasing the economic activity of the domestic real sector. This will also imply a reduction in the unemployment rate, as lower rates of corporate income tax have shown to stimulate the opening and operation of new businesses, thus also employment. Dear People's MPs, I call on you to accept these amendments to this law, if we think well of our economy, our economy, and our businessmen at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35489	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 MPs from a total of 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Slobodan Homen suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35490	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the priorities of various governments in history, and especially the current government is the fight against corruption. I think this bill, or addition of the law, will be a serious test of preparedness that the government is not only in words and is verbally fighting corruption, but is ready to deal with and adopt regulations that are essential to preventing corruption. I think it's clear to all of us that our country, first of all, needs anti-corruption prevention, because that's what really reduces the level of corruption. The second part of the fight against corruption is police work, the work of the prosecution, but when it comes to the job, when police activities occur, that is when corruption has occurred, it has already happened and we are already living in a society with present corruption. Therefore, in the fight against corruption, prevention is essential. In that sense, I have proposed this law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which is one institution in our society that you will all agree on, and especially citizens in a huge percentage, which is political parties. Citizens believe that political parties are not only subject to corruption, but are also a source of corruption. The essence of this bill is that all political parties, as well as other state institutions, are obliged to make integrity plans. The integrity plans talk about those problematic points that can come and can be the source of corruption. Based on these plans and the integrity of the political party, as well as the state authorities must make a series of measures, decisions and regulations to limit, or prevent as much corruption as possible within political parties. We know that when the party is in power that members of that party are in high state functions. Therefore, it is extremely important to apply this law to the political parties that are in power, regardless of who makes the ruling majority at that time. The second part of the amendment of the law I think is equally important and I really think it should be adopted, which is that when the legislator passed the existing Anti-Corruption Agency Act, he failed to prescribe penalties for those state institutions, I am now not talking about political parties, which did not bring in time of integrity plans. In other words, even state authorities who are legally obliged to do so have no sanctions unless they do so. My proposal here is that violations, i.e. fines, of the institutions, of the political parties, or of all those bodies that are legally competent and obliged to adopt integrity plans, which they do not. I think this would be a serious step in the fight against corruption, or prevention in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35491	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - eight, against - none of the abstentions - did 161 MPs vote out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35492	Thank you, President-in-Office, fellow Members, so the case wanted to discuss the amendments and additions I proposed at the end of August of the month, formally entered the procedure of the proposal on 15 September, and we are discussing this week, when we discussed amendments to the amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax on Monday. Namely, the essence of this law that I propose today is to put the rate of sales of baby food into a special rate of traffic. So instead of 20% of VAT on baby food, you charge 10% of VAT. On the occasion of this proposal, the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the VAT and my amendment and amendment of my fellow MPs, which is identical to the draft of this law and we discussed it a lot on Monday. I'm glad there was no one against that idea back then. We all talked about the need for the state to do something to prevent the white plague that exists in Serbia, unfortunately, and the fact that more than 30,000 people died each year compared to the number of newly born Serbian citizens. I don't think that this measure is crucial and that it can turn things around, especially in a short period of time, but I think and think that this is one place where the state can show that it takes care of young parents, or the parents of small children, babies, and that it tries in a certain way to make life easier for them. The fact is that when a newborn comes into the house, there's a lot of costs and the fact that there's a certain way for these costs to be refunded. It was kind of strange for me when the minister said that if we adopted one such change against which he didn't mind, we would introduce only added administration and increase the risk of possible abuse. I don't think that our businessmen, but also merchants, as a rule, are prone to abuse and will take advantage of every opportunity to get rich. I see no reason why we should not adopt this bill and go into debate and concrete state measures to facilitate the position of parents and allow Serbia's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35493	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. It concludes the vote and I declare that for—eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—there was no vote by 159 MPs from the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35494	Thank you, Mr. President. About a year ago, we adopted the Law on the Temporary Retirement of Pensions. Since the beginning of the year, we have heard about the unprecedented results and the unprecedented state of the Serbian budget and that all the problems that have existed in the Serbian budget have disappeared overnight. Sometime since mid-year, it has been announced that the lives of citizens and pensioners will be facilitated and that at the end of this year, if the IMF allows us to do so, or when the IMF allows us, we will increase pensions and salaries. We voted against this law because we believe that it is not a way to put the problems that exist in the budget on the back of citizens and that only on pension and salary payments are the real savings in the budget. Today, after nine months of looking at the Serbian budget, we can see that savings have been made, the deficit has been reduced, but unfortunately the only savings that have been made have been made on a continuous reduction in wages and pensions. No reduced costs for purchases, no reduced costs for providing special services, none of which has been done, the only ones who have paid the cost of saving are citizens, who have been reduced salaries and pensioners, who have reduced pensions. We believe that the time has come to break with this, that if there is, and there is, a need to stabilise Serbian finances, it is done in another way, to increase the tax rate that is lower today than in 2012 and despite all the announcements of the fight against corruption, the fight against working on black and similar things, tax collection in the first nine months of this year is 0.8% higher compared to 2014. It is therefore lower than the inflation rate in absolute, i.e. in real terms, compared to 2014. Our bill proposes that pensions be paid as before the entry into force of the Law on the temporary regulation of salaries and pensions, and that the difference that is less paid to citizens in 2015 be paid in 12 months of war in 2016. I call upon you to pass this law and facilitate the life of the most endangered.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35495	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted with 152 MPs of the total of 163 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Snezana Malovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts, against full freedom towards minors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35496	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, Together for Serbia, Green Serbia, I have proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on Special Measures to prevent crimes against gender freedom against minors, or as Maria's law is more known in public. The proposal for this law is a constructive contribution that our parliamentary group wants to make and which can contribute to the equal protection of all, especially the protection of particularly sensitive persons, including minors. This law was first adopted in 2013, although it was proposed in 2012. The essence of the law was that there are measures applicable to persons accused and convicted of criminal acts of sexual freedom against minors for a period of 20 years after serving a prison sentence. The second essence of this law was that these crimes don't go out of date. Today, however, we have in practice a notorious fact that the law does not apply. There are different reasons why the law cannot be applied, and we wanted to contribute in this way to the application of the law. For this reason, this bill contains a provision which provides for special records to be conducted for the perpetrators of these crimes, whose criminal liability has been determined by a judicial verdict after the entry into force of the Law on Special Measures to prevent the offences against the full freedom against minors, or after 16 April 2013, regardless of the criminal proceedings in which the judgment was brought. In this way, if this provision were to be found in the law, different interpretations of the organs that exist in this regard would be prevented. Also, this bill provides for the criminal record of rapists to be kept by the Ministry of the Interior, as the Ministry of the Interior keeps other criminal liability records, so in this way, we believe, it would be more cellular and efficient. I call on my colleagues to adopt this law because by adopting this bill, as I said, we can contribute to improving the protection of sensitive persons, especially minors. We can also contribute to defining the better purpose of the law and agreeing to existing laws that treat criminal matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35497	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – draft law on draft law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 September 2015. Does MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted a bill on the draft law and I have proposed that it be placed on the agenda of this session. There's more reason to pass a law like this. The matter that is subject to this law is not adequately regulated among us and except in a few members where it is mentioned in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the Assembly, is mostly regulated by sublaws, i.e. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly also adopted a resolution on legislative policy. However, this act did not find full application in practice. In practice so far, and especially in recent years, there are a number of problems that arise in the process of proposing laws and, for example, more and more frequently and in a large percentage, laws are passed by emergency procedure, which makes it impossible for MPs to get acquainted with the content of the bill and to intervene in an adequate way. Then, in a small number of cases, a public debate is held and when a public debate is held, it is a matter of how it is held and whether all interested participants are given the opportunity to contribute to the public debate. More and more often in the draft laws, we find the final provision that the law enters into force the next day from the day of publication, not within eight days of the day of publication. Another problem is that there is no respect for the resolution in the work, which provides that proposals for sublegal acts adopted under these laws are also being submitted to the bill so that we, as MPs, can have a comprehensive insight into solving certain issues. Another of the problems and failures that are now taking place in the lawmaking process is that we do not have a prior debate and public insight into the bill's proposals, with respect to the opinions of the state bodies belonging to so-called. the fourth branch of government, which are not often involved in public debate and...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35499	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35500	... and whose opinion would be necessary. That's why we suggest putting this law on the agenda, to regulate this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35501	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 October 2014. Does MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Korach.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The essence of the law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government is that in Article 20. The law governing the jurisdiction of local self-government after point 16 adds a new point 16a. which reads, arranges and secures the scholarship of the disciples and the students. We're all aware that education is a catastrophic condition. Educational workers and students and students are also dissatisfied. Young people are less and less able to school, and those who are able to finish schools are increasingly leaving Serbia for better living conditions. It was a crisis, and it's still going on, but this government was unable to fill the budget. It did not properly assess where fair savings could be made that would fill the budget deficit, nor did it take measures to collect taxes from taxpayers, who, according to a list issued by the tax administration, belong to the country's richest citizens. On the contrary, it has been defined as a reduction in wages and pensions, which has made the situation even more difficult for both educators and parents who educate their children. With all due respect to most members of the ruling coalition, I must conclude that for the third time I propose that this law be placed on the agenda, but that I do not come across the understanding of members of the ruling coalition, because there are probably among them, especially in important places, and those who have in a very fast way and in a very questionable way come to diploma and doctorate, so now they have no understanding of the schooling of materially endangered students and students. Local self-government is in direct contact with citizens and their problems and are therefore more sensitive and more understanding, and despite the difficult material situation, they find the means to help poor students and students finish their education. However, this has no legal basis, and when a final account is audited, it comes to the fact that auditors declare violations of student and student scholarships. As a result, local self - administrations are involved in various ways, giving different kinds of help, or whatever it is that manages. The adoption of the proposed law would give local self-government the legal basis to legally use the possibility of scholarship students and students.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35503	Thank you, Mrs. Korach. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 168 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Information and Media Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 April 2015. Does the MP Dr Blagoja Bradic want a word? He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law amending the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 March 2015. Mr. Bradic isn't in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 out of 170 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Blagoja Bradić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the definition of public interest and special procedures of expropriation and the issue of a building permit for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 15 May 2015. Mr. Bradic isn't in the O.R. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 out of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Proposal for a new item to be placed on the agenda after an emergency procedure during the session. According to Article 168(3), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 168(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, proposed to put on the agenda of this session a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 October 2015. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, there is no vote of 44 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Maja Gojkovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) and Article 157(2) and Article 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Tourism, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to the Statute of the World Tourism Organisation, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Cooperation in the Area of Tourism, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Macedonia and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia (point 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed agenda); 2nd Common Principle and Single Review on: Proposal of the Law on National Parks, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Prevention of Water Prevention of Water Prevention of the Water by the Water of the Framework Agreement on the Sava River of the Sava, Proposal for the Convention between the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia (C). I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 32 out of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one, with abstentions, voted 31 out of the 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. We are going to work on the established agenda of this session. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act; 2. Proposal for a law on the approval of amendments to the Statute of the World Tourism Organisation; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of tourism; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Economic Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol amending and supplementing the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia; 6. Proposal for a law on national parks; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the prevention of pollution of water caused by navigation under the Sava River Basin Framework Agreement; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on cooperation in the veterinary field; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on timely exchange of information in the event of radiological danger; 10. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the function of the President of the Securities Commission; 11. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 12. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I called for today's session to be attended by Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, with co-workers from the Ministry. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda for items 1 to 5 and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time for debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and unified search. Does the proposal representative Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have five legislative proposals coming from the work of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Let me give you basic clarifications for each of these five legal proposals. The Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act is a law that has far-reaching significance from the point of view of tourism development, for the simple reason it was passed in 2009 and has suffered three amendments and additions to the law so far. It's mostly about technical changes. These changes did not follow, on the one hand, compliance with other legislation and solutions, the EU directives in this area and did not follow new trends in the modern development of the tourism economy. The law contained solid solutions in many segments. Unfortunately, the practice has shown that it has a whole series of shortcomings that we have been told by representatives of tourism and professional public, agencies, tourists, travellers and after an extensive public debate that even lasted a few months, we have managed to come up with the most important provisions that would make up the text of this legislative proposal. Therefore, these shortcomings that we talked about and mentioned by all the actors relate primarily to a large percentage of the gray economy in this area. I also mentioned that it was a discrepancy with other regulations and European directives, which I am primarily referring to inconsistencies with the Law on Violation, consumer protection laws. Also, the legal solution so far has not been sufficient to protect and ensure the safety of travellers and tourists who have made arrangements with tourist agencies. There have also been many problems with tourist intermediaries, i.e. subagents, that I am not talking about the lack of jurisdiction of the tourist inspection to remove these irregularities, there has been a gap between legal solutions and everyday practice. There were reasons why we were going to change and supplement this law. I would like to make all these changes in some four or five groups, simplistically put, so that you can keep an eye on what kind of changes are going on. The first group of changes are the termological nature, so we introduce new terms according to modern trends in the development of tourism in the world. There are several practical measures that this law makes. The second group of changes relate to the work of tourist organisations, from local to national. The third group of changes refers to the safety and protection of travellers during tourist trips. The next change group refers to inspection surveillance. As for the termological newspapers, or new terms that we are introducing, the term “destination management of organizations” is introduced for the first time, which is the basis and which is formed for the management of a specific tourist destination. It is formed on the basis of the public and private sectors and is practically a modern model of public-private partnership in the field of tourism. There is no modern development of the tourism economy without a clear definition of who manages a specific tourist destination. Austria, although not a sea destination, has achieved fantastic results, among other things thanks to the introduction of destination management in the development and management of the tourist destination. This includes two other newspapers that are important from the point of view of the economy itself, the destination management of the company and the professional organiser of the congress. So it's about companies. This first specialises in providing tourism services in a particular sector and in a particular region, while the second, as the term itself says, specializes in organising congresses and other similar events. The ministry will pass a sublegal act that should also define how travel organisers can get the name, i.e. assurances, to confirm that it is the company's destination management or the professional organiser of the congress. In order for them to get those beliefs, they also have to meet certain criteria. It will be done by the end of this year or early next year. As far as practical newspapers are concerned, one refers to incentives intended for organised tourism trips, primarily with the aim of attracting both domestic and foreign tourism. As you know, we have had this more than successful action with vouchers, which is tasked with encouraging domestic tourism. These measures should be agreed on with the aim of organised attracting foreign tourists. That is where Macedonia may have made the biggest step in the region, which gives direct financial resources per tourist's head, i.e. on the head of the travellers that the agencies organisedly bring to Macedonia. Of course, we did not now specify all the elements of these incentives because they will depend largely on the financial resources that we have. Also, of these practical measures, I would also mention here that natural persons within rural tourist households have the opportunity to provide accommodation services in temporary camping facilities, with the number limited to 20 pay camps or up to 30 guests, with the need to provide this space with minimum technical and sanitary conditions which are clearly prescribed for this activity to be carried out. As for newspapers in the field of tourism organisations, for the first time there are very clear criteria and conditions for the directors of tourist organisations, from local to national level, including the director of the circuit tourist organisation and including the directors of regional tourism organisations, so, in addition to high professional training, knowledge of foreign language, it takes seven years of work experience for the director of the National Tourism Organisation, five years in leading posts. The same is true for the circuit directors, this is true for the regional ones, while local directors of tourist organisations are subject to four years of work experience, of which two years in management posts. We will also define clear conditions for forming in the future of tourism organisations. We currently have about 120 tourist organisations in Serbia. We have, therefore, a very inefficient system. The goal is to speed up the association of local tourism organisations in regional tourism organisations, and yet with the ultimate goal of turning it into destination management for more efficient management of the destination. Today we have one paradoxical situation, that Kopalnik, which is one of the most important tourist destinations in the country, does not have its own tourist organization, but to cover two tourist organisations, both Bruce and Raška. Also, these changes have extended the scope of tourism organisations. They will be able to participate in domestic and international projects, as well as funds from residence tax that are exclusively the income of local self-government, will be able to benefit from all those activities that are specified by this law, and not so far, only for the production of newsletters, propaganda materials, the work of the Information Centre. The funds will also be able to be used to develop tourism infrastructure. As far as newspapers are concerned about passenger safety and passenger protection during tourist trips, there may have been the biggest gap between the laws and everyday life-practice solutions. You yourself are witnessing as much as there was the fraud of travellers by tourist agencies and subagents, that the state was very often powerless because of the legal gaps we had in the existing legal solutions. Thus, a tourist inspection, due to a lack of respect for the obligations of the travel arrangement, began the procedure for withdrawing a license from one of the agencies, but by law, the agency could continue to operate until the administrative procedure was fully completed. So, unlimited field for further malfeasance and passenger fraud. We are now correcting this illogicality, so future inspections will also have increased jurisdiction, that they will be able to fine, that they will be able to ban and that they will be able to initiate the process of withdrawing the license from a particular tourist organisation because of their failure to respect the travel arrangements with passengers. Also, passengers, it's a newspaper again, getting travel confirmation. This certificate will consist of guarantees, i.e. policies that the agency has and how to activate these guarantees will receive all notices about the authorised person for contact at the tourist destination that will be in charge of all notices and for the reception of advertising by passengers during the duration of the journey. Also, we mentioned, there were many complaints about the work of tourist intermediaries or subagents that were completely invisible. It is about companies that were not necessarily registered for tourist activity, who often cheated on the agency they worked for and often cheated on passengers. Now they will have to register in the APR tourism register to make them visible. Travellers will be able to see for themselves their business, their work. We assume that so far there have been and no one has that data between 500 and 1000 subagents now everyone will be able to see what kind of subagents they're working on, to separate actually the grain from the weeds. Also in order to protect passengers and travel in general, clear conditions have been laid down in which way union organisations, February alliances, reconnaissance associations, mountaineering organisations can organise tourist trips and here were the most slow ones and surely we were up to two months late with this legislative proposal because of the inability to reach consensus between the tourist agency that demanded a complete ban on this organisation, i.e. the association being able to organise tourist trips and, of course, their opposition did not want to contain the status quo. We've come to a middle solution with which, I think, everyone is equally satisfied or dissatisfied, but in any case, the solutions that everyone has accepted. So there are very clear conditions under which such trips can be arranged for their members. Therefore, these trips must be part of the annual travel plan of all associations, the plan is submitted within seven days, these trips cannot be advertised but can only be notified to their members, any commercialisation within the meaning of the organisation of such trips has been excluded. What may be the most important issue in this, the issue of a bank guarantee or policies that are being activated in the event of non-compliance with the obligations of tourist agencies, in the event of a return or return of money to tourists who have been cheated or played, was also now raised, very often these policies were not enough to recover those funds. This will be regulated by the regulation and we are closest to the solution that future travel agencies must have either a bank guarantee or a policy to obtain a work license and a second step must be provided for each individual trip and that the policy will then be charged by tourists if there is any obligation under the contract on the tourist arrangement, but as I said it will be regulated by the regulation that will soon be brought in. As far as the press is concerned, there would be two large newspapers. One concerns the decentralisation or transfer of competences of inspection supervision and of units of local self-government and these were demands and municipalities, especially the City of Belgrade, which are facing a high percentage of the gray economy in this area. So local inspections will be able to control the so-called. Unlawful work in private accommodations and rural tourist households. They will also be able to control the fulfilment of minimum technical conditions in private housing and hostels to control the collection of residence fees will also be able to control the acquisition and adherence of working hours, which was also a problem especially for large units of local self-government. The second major change concerns the alignment here with the Law on Violation, the criminal policy is arranged and the first infringement order is imposed for natural persons, entrepreneurs, legal persons, and we count that this way we will speed up more effective, better payment of fines, and thus relieve the criminal courts. I mentioned that it is necessary for the full capacity law to be implemented, implemented, we need to bring up by the end of the year six sublegal acts and in the first quarter of next year three other sublegal acts. We have received amendments on the proposal for these amendments, we will be prepared to listen to all other suggestions as we did during the public debate and we will certainly accept everything that will improve the text of this law. As far as ratification is concerned, the first proposal for a law on the validation of three amendments to the World Tourism Organisation's statutes is. In fact, out of the nine amendments needed to be ratified, Serbia has ratified six so far. These are three new amendments, which are honestly more pro-formal, because the states have no obligation to ratify these amendments but only to agree to these amendments that have been proposed, but the practice since the beginning of Serbia has been that all amendments proposed by the World Tourism Organisation have been ratified in parliament as well. The three amendments, therefore, relate to the election of the Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organisation, concerns membership, i.e. the way countries are elected to the World Tourism Organisation, and the third concerns that the budget is expressed in euro and that membership fees can also be paid in the second currency. With these three amendments, or amendments, Serbia will be with the Netherlands, Lithuania and Spain, the only country that has ratified all nine amendments of the World Tourism Organisation. As far as the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on cooperation in the field of tourism is concerned, it is a type agreement that we have more or less with all countries of the region. The goal is to try to combine tourism capacities in order to create a common tourist product and a joint appearance in third markets again in terms of the greater attraction of foreign tourists in this region, thus also in Serbia. For us, Macedonia is also important from the bilateral population. We have a year-on-year growth in the number of Macedonian tourists, this year the number was about 6% higher, about 25,000 in the first seven months of this year, so Macedonian tourists who visited Serbia. The agreement on economic co-operation between Serbia and Macedonia signed in February of this year is the same text of an agreement that we had signed with Macedonia since 2009, and it ceased to apply in 2013 and, unlike this agreement, it did not retain a clause on the automatic extension of this agreement after the expiry of its term. So that's the only difference compared to the previous agreement signed in 2009. It is again a classic agreement of this type that envisions and defines clear areas of economic co-operation between the two countries. I foresee the establishment of a mixed commission for economic co-operation that oversees the process of economic, trade and any other co-operation between the two countries. Not to mention how important Macedonia is to us as a potential trading partner. Last year, the birth exchange was 644m euros, we exported goods worth 454m euros, so the seventh export market for our products is Macedonia, and we are the fourth foreign-trade partner for them. This is a roof deal, all other agreements will be part of this agreement. As for the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia, this is literally only one new chapter that is introduced into the text of the Agreement between Serbia and the EFTA States. The head refers to trade and sustainable development, and the bottom line is that standards in the field of environmental protection and labour protection should not be reduced. Therefore, the state cannot apply this as a method of increasing its competitiveness, meaning that it lowers existing standards in the field of environmental protection and protection at work, there are no other amendments to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35505	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Djordje Kosanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35506	Dear Ministers with Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a joint principle and uniform search of several draft laws. I mention the Proposal for a Law on Tourism, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to the Statute of the World Tourism Organisation, two agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia in the area of tourism and economics and the validation of the Protocol on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group will support the aforementioned laws in the voting day. At the very beginning of my presentation will be focused on the proposal for a tourism law and certainly doubtless, at first I will say that tourism is one of the most important socioeconomic activities of our era. Today, more than a billion people are involved in tourist movements. Annual tourism generates more than 9% of the world's total GDP, with an annual income of as much as $1.3 billion. So, every 11 persons employed in the world are working in tourism, and each provided, let me say, the third service in the world is in the field of tourism. Tourism is also a major generator for new investments, creating new jobs and new business opportunities and destinations in developing cities. Why did I mention all this at the beginning? Because practically in the world, tourism is one of the most important branches for the development of the economy of a country. What's it like, Minister? So far, there's been a lot of talk and very little work. I think we've now made a major step forward as far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned. For the first time, we recognized the importance of tourism and the government of the Republic of Serbia actively took part in Serbia's tourist offer. Serbia, of course, has capacities and facilities that can be far better exploited and that the citizens' money remains with us. I'll just say that, according to some unofficial data, you didn't mention it, I'll say, annual travel destinations in the world go over a billion euros. Officially through NBS, it's a little less than 900m euros, and I'll tell you a simple example, if that's 900m euros, let's just say 10% to leave in Serbia, that's about 90m euros. Simple, increase, say, a 2.5% pension, if you agree with me. Not to mention other areas where we might be more likely to participate. Also for ordinary people what that would mean. Like, some remote restaurant in some place would hire, say, another waiter and another chef. Then, this law brings about the activation of the rural household. If they said that, let's say, the young would stay in the country, have a job that's nice, which they like, they'd make a good living, and also if they'd expanded this about hotels, women with, say, low professional equipment, they'd work as maids, or as maids, and they could have no problem buying children books, or lunches. So here I'm saying everything, but to say that foreign tourists are very important to us, they bring us foreign exchanges, but also domestic tourism is important because money made by spending our resources back in our economy and remains in the country. Minister, I can't help but mention another very important thing, when we talk about local self-government, I think local self-government must have creativity, the idea of starting a lot of things in its places. I mean, not just tourism, but a lot of other things. We cannot, you will agree, wait only for the Government of the Republic of Serbia in all parts. So here I want to say and give an example, let's say, one successful local self-government of Jagodina, which is certainly not only touristic but also sports, then industrial and every other center of Serbia, along with all its contents, enriches tourism content every year. This year it was a waterfall, and not to say the number of tourists each year. So, successful local self-government, a good example for all Serbia's places. With its tourist content, it has surpassed Serbia and I think it has certainly become a regional centre. Coming back to the bill itself, you've talked a lot about it, I'm just going to briefly say some papers that pass this law. So, first of all, full compliance with EU regulations and with the directive relating to organised travel, vacation and circular travel, and on the other hand, the Services Directive. So, in some parts of what it practically means for ordinary citizens when it happens. When an ordinary citizen gets a brochure that seems to me, in many cases, not so precise, this time it will have to be accurate with all the data that the citizen will receive. Also, speaking of documentation, it will have to be in Serbian, and in exceptional cases it may be in a foreign language, but in that case it must be translated and that translation must be certified by an authorised person. You have noted this, but certainly one of the key things is to reduce the grey economy and set up such a legal framework that would provide full support for the successful and efficient management of tourism development, which would ensure the consent of all the laws governing this area. In line with these local self-governments, more powers are being given as regards the supervision of the application of the law and I don't think you mentioned it, and I'm just going to tell you that right now in Serbia we only have 100 inspectors and I think that should change to a significant extent. The possibility of encouraging tourism traffic in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been introduced, unprofessional personnel have also been sighted, and you have just said so, and the area of tourism profession has been fully regulated by this law. The newspaper is introducing representatives to a tourist destination. No longer entering into the details of this law, I will only say that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will certainly support this proposal for a tourism law. The second bill is about confirming amendments to the World Tourism Organisation Statute, and I would have nothing to say about it, except that we have already ratified six amendments, and these three amendments will be ratified and put in line for the rare countries that have already ratified all nine amendments. When it comes to two agreements between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Macedonia, in the area of economy and tourism, the first on economic co-operation was signed in Skopje in February 2015, with a desire to expand and develop the area of trade and economic co-operation between the two countries. In an external trade exchange, I will mention once more with Macedonia, Serbia had a 263m-euro surplus last year. Macedonia is Serbia's seventh export market, especially for food products, sweets, dairy products, meat, livestock food and construction material. So, just to mention, trade exchange is at a level of 644m euros. Is there room for expanding co-operation? Of course there are, in many areas. Priority should be better infrastructure integration, establishing common interests in energy and telecommunications, greater use of free trade and co-operation agreements, especially in agriculture. When it comes to an agreement between Serbia and Macedonia on co-operation in the field of tourism, it should be said that it is signed to improve the area, but also to improve the overall bilateral relations between the two countries. Again, not getting into the details of this Agreement, just to say, in addition to agriculture and construction, tourism is certainly one of the most important areas for co-operation between Serbia and Macedonia. At the very end, speaking of the draft law confirming the amendments and additions to the FTA-Republic of Serbia Free Trade Agreement, signed this year in Belgrade, with the aim of adding provisions related to tightening obligations from relevant environmental reports and labour-related standards. Otherwise, Serbia signed a free trade agreement with the EFT as early as 2009 in Geneva. with the Member States of the European Free Trade Association, to say what it is. The EFTA, which was based in 1960, and some of the countries that became EU members, left the EFTU and those left by Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. What does this cooperation with the EFTO mean? Of course, co-operation with the EFTA countries is one big plus for better positioning Serbia in the free trade regime. Finally, the JS parliamentary group will support all of the bill's proposals from this joint principled single search.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35507	Thank you. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament to Olena Papuga, an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35508	Thank you, Vice President Becic. Minister Ljajic and his associates, I would like to point out that LSV will be in line with whether or not you will accept the amendments, so as to decide that it will vote to amend the Tourism Act, and of course we will definitely vote for the agreements. Tourism in our country provides great opportunities, but has great competition. Today we are discussing amendments to the Tourism Act that have created problems on the tourist market. There are many examples of agencies knowingly or deliberately neglecting the Law on Tourism and doing business at the expense of customers, especially summers, the paper is full of texts about the experiences of damaged tourists, although the Tourist Inspectorate informed the agencies at the beginning of the summer season that they have appropriate policies, professional staff, concluded contracts with foreign agencies and that the license is not taken away or inspections advise tourists to be careful and to check what they enter when they travel. Our tourists have to open four eyes when they travel and sign travel contracts, and our people often need unnecessarily. It's up to our mentality that will have to change. It's only mere thing to put on paper. That's where I mean the terms of the trip. Travellers often do not know who the organizer is, so if there is a misunderstanding, they often count on intermediaries with whom they often arrange their travels. There is a grey economy in the area of tourism in Serbia, and you have also stressed in your presentation of these amendments to the law. Although this amendment stops it then it is justified to vote. The damaged tourists often have no one to turn to when their rights are denied, as the Consumer Rights Act is often ignored in this area of tourism. The redistribution of inspection services and the transfer of part of jurisdiction to authorised inspection bodies will result in territorial coverage of the units of local self-government. Increased control of the collection and payment of the extractive incomes of local self-government units from tourism activities will be possible. It should be noted that the Tourist Inspectorate does not have sufficient capacity and that there is a disproportionate proportion to the size of the affairs and the number of inspectors doing the job, we know that we do not have enough inspectors in the area. In the larger tourist centres of Kopalnik, Zlatibor, there is no systematicized job of a tourist inspector. Studies have shown that there are a lot of unprofessional personnel in the leading places in tourist organisations, especially at the local level. For this reason there has also been a regulation of the obligation to provide professional training and work experience for the Director of the Tourist Agency, which we can again commend. The leading factor in tourism development should be the education process. The education of tourism job staff should create a higher level of education for people in a particular social community. In Vojvodina there are 117 regular secondary schools in 39 municipalities, 12 of them, economic schools, perform programs of catering and tourist professions, of which 11 are state-owned and one is private school. For tourism education can be singled out in Vojvodina Natural Mathematical Faculty in Novi Sad and Faculty of Economics in Subotica. There is a Faculty of Business Economics in Sremska Kamenica and the Faculty of Sports and Tourism in Novi Sad. Even though we have existing schools and universities, we can say that there are a lot of unemployed people who have graduated from both high schools and colleges. I don't know why this is happening, whether tourism employs staff who don't have the right professional equipment or because tourism opportunities are really untapped. Tourism should bring about the development of local self-government, it says in the law. In this regard, it can be expected to increase the number of jobs and employment primarily by the local population, which is in some way the task of tourism. First row for tourism development should count on spas, mountains, medicinal springs, and in Vojvodina on the used thermal waters by which countries are in the environment, especially Hungary, in the world recognizable and that enables them to earn over the year. We know that local self-government in Hungary has come to life and that they are living just by discovering these thermal waters and making it a business. Studies in Vojvodina have shown that people are most interested in an ethnic story, which has been extremely popular lately. Tourists want to see, not only see, but feel the atmosphere and learn how it used to live in certain parts. When it comes to the greatest shortages of tourism from Vojvodina, I am talking about it because I come from Vojvodina, from the aspect of marketing their resolution, is the greatest lack of material and financial nature. Vojvodina seems to have little advantage over the rest of Serbia in terms of tourism. Although in Vojvodina, there is a lack of professional staff to manage marketing and tourism, we know, very important. Eco tourism in Serbia is a neglected branch. Unfortunately, the potentials of eco tourism are not sufficiently identified and used, and they can bring great profits and opportunities to hire locals and eventually outflows of young people into larger cities or abroad. In Vojvodina today, a large number of natural goods were placed under protection on a total surface of over 120,000 hectares. There are over 130 natural goods under protection, the most significant of which is Fruska Gora, etc. These potentials are untapped. Studies say only one third of it was used. The amendments to the law state that a number of intermediaries in the sale of tourist travel have seen a treatment that is not in line with the attention of a good businessman. In that sense, they are required to register in the tourism register, which is again commendable. We are dominated by the opinion that it is necessary to work very hard on the international co-operation of all tourist entities and that this has not been the case so far. Studies say tourist agencies co-operate with hotelers, but that co-operation is very bad, while the tourism organisation does not co-operate at all with hotelers, they consider the co-operation as good. Hoteliers give extremely small fees to tourist agencies and it happens that the prices of tourist agencies are higher than those highlighted at hotel receptions. So it's a gray economy, and I think if this law changes that, we'll be kind of satisfied, and if we don't maybe vote for that law. Once again, let me point out that the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina will support this law if we are accepted by the amendments, and of course we will discuss them on the day when the order comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35509	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will mostly stay at a point that talks about economic co-operation with Macedonia and without further ado that co-operation is very important, first because it is two neighbouring countries. Then there is tradition, and there is a rich tradition of co-operation, because it is the co-operation with the tradition of the common country. Then there is Corridor 10, which is of great importance and unfortunately, at the beginning, I would have realized that in the past 23 years since the border was set with Macedonia during the fall of the former Yugoslavia, we have had enormous difficulties, particularly in the municipalities that are in the area. At first we had, here I know in Presevo, not only the Khumanovski ČIK plant, that it was immediately closed at that time, in these drastic changes after setting the border, but at least two other business entities were closed then because they mainly placed goods on the territory of Macedonia. Due to massive border, customs disruptions, they were in a position to go bankrupt very soon afterwards. In addition, or let's take the more direct agricultural co-operation in general, that exchange that neighboring municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac with Kumanov, Lipovo, and all the way to Skopje, always traditionally had because Skopje was always an economic centre for the area, it was suddenly artificially cut, very drastically. In general, the devastation, in general the degradation of the entire Pcinj County, above all Presevo and Bujanovac, is mainly the cause of this rigid border that has been like this for a long time. Then the additional element is the abnormal situation in relations with Kosovo. It's already a supplemental element in this difficult situation. We, unfortunately, still cannot restore the communications we had, that Pcinian district with the northern part of Macedonia. The main highway, along with the highway and the main local road, which the buses had trafficed ten times a day, they were still closed, although the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, I think in 2005, made a decision to open three border crossings on the territory of Presevo municipality, one in the Shop, the one in the Shop a three- or four years ago opened, but none of those three, for which decisions were made, has yet to be opened. Now we have an absurd situation. This main road, with very frequent traffic, is only used in emergency situations, or when there was an international embargo, so there was a major smuggling, in general illegal transfer, oil derivatives, or now this emergency with all these people coming from the Middle East. But in both the first and second situations, farmers had nothing but damage, because they go through the bracelets, they go through everything that farmers do, and eventually they have such damage that it is not worth it to deal with their basic work. It's completely illogical to talk for 23 years, and we can't reopen such a frequency road. Even the asphalt roads came from Macedonia, on our side and with the help of the American USAID and the co-ordination body, reconstructed, made a good path, but not used. The decision has been made, but that decision is not being made. I know that often in the Serbian government, responsibility is transferred to Macedonia. They're doing the opposite, and the situation is that after so many years, at least that one, the most frequent path doesn't work, because the border crossing isn't open. In all these efforts over the last 10, 15 years, the situation has improved. I mention one project of the Council of Europe since 2002, 2003, until 2005, whose idea was to achieve cross-border and regional co-operation between Presevo, Kumanov, Gjilan. At that time, it was purely cultural, but the other part was not realized, in economic co-operation. These days, I have this data that, within the framework of the Surdulic municipality's pre-accession funds, nearly eightm euros was achieved under the IPA funds with the neighbouring Bulgarian municipality. Unfortunately, I will seem to finish this fourth term, and I will not find out why there is no cross-border co-operation and IPA funds of cross-border and regional co-operation with Macedonia are not being implemented. Of course, that's where Presevo, Bujanovac and the Pcinian district would benefit the most. It is of great interest for this agreement to be as relevant as possible, of course, to be of interest to the entire state, but to order these neighbouring municipalities that traditionally have natural conditions for co-operation. There should be the first administrative, bureaucratic obstacles, and then the positive measures that the government can take to speed up economic co-operation. I say, it's a natural co-operation that's been between these areas for centuries, which has been cut down. Come on, let's keep it within that point of tourism, I often go to Bear. What do you have from one of the richest places for tourism in the whole country? Only pensioners and those who go to the state budget and use the benefits of the tourist resort. But from other environments that have more offers, so far there's little interest in Bear. Imagine if there were normal relations with Kosovo, how much would be worth to Medvedji, how much would their profit from tourism be if more mass tourists came from Kosovo, above all from Pristina, Podujeva, Kamenica, which so far had administrative... The same spa in Bujanovac, it was cut pretty much, from Pristina, Gjilan and the whole area, came to a spa in Bujanovac. That's been over for 15 years. I think that all of these laws, and the development of tourism and economic co-operation, probably have this one precondition, firstly, of this freedom of movement, that we do not have these obstacles that, unfortunately, still appear and that more attention is given to both border places, to strengthen economic capacity and tourism, so that both this co-operation with Macedonia and with any neighbouring country would be far more intense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35511	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35512	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, in their presentation today in the debate in principle, I will pay the most attention to the proposed amendments and additions to the Tourism Act, which, in a legal and technical sense, represents a pretty good solution. In a language sense, it can be improved and, of course, certain amendments have been tabled which I believe can contribute to improving exactly this text of the law. Essentially, it is certainly one proposal that completes the matter of tourism and contributes to everything it has existed for and a short period of time in our country. Although it is often stated that the Law on Tourism, which was adopted and which entered into legal force in 2012, has systematically regulated the area of tourism, with which it can be agreed, precisely a number of problems of practical nature deny such a thing, which are currently being faced by tourism operators in our country. It is precisely the cause of the changes and additions that we are discussing today, and whose debate, and hopefully by adopting it, there was a need. The tourism development strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted, seems to me, in 2006, to me, correct me if I was wrong about the year, and without an action plan, every strategy adopted without an action plan is nothing but a list of good wishes written that cannot be realised in any way, predicted much in the tourism domain, which could improve the situation in this area, but little, or almost nothing has been done, or realised. So, let's say, this same strategy predicted that the results of its implementation would be the following, I say only some of them, that is: achieving an increase in the competitiveness of Serbian tourism, an increase in foreign exchange inflow, an increase in tourism traffic, an increase in employment through tourism, etc. It's time that showed us all that the results were applied, so you can say, minor, not to be too rough and use the word almost nonexistent. Tourism, of course, has never been an issue in our country that would over-occupied public attention, nor a serious topic that first gathers the attention of the development policy of the Republic of Serbia. It is a priority for these proposed amendments and the additions that we are discussing today just to reduce the grey economy, and in order to redistribute rights, obligations and empowerment of inspection services, but I think that if this is a priority goal, then it must not be the only one. Normatively, it can be predicted, but in practice this grey economy, I think, will be present in the future. We did not move much further on the tourism plan compared to some previous years, nor did we get better. In addition to this, data continue to show that in our tourist products, insufficient, non-local, inadequately developed and that with accommodation facilities, compared to neighbouring countries, but also with respect to competitive countries, we are quite late. What is our greatest lack and paradox in developed countries is that we were the first ones to engage in the privatisation process and privatized everything that was privatized to that, and then we remembered that there was also something called restitution, whose subject today, I must mention, and many nationalized hotels. In order not to spread the story here and return to 1946, the amendments and additions to the Law on Nationalisation of Business Entities from 1948, etc. Significant investment isn't that there isn't, but it seems to me that they're quite insufficient. Also, the attractiveness of tourist offers, which these proposed changes and additions seem to improve, and as far as investment in infrastructure maintenance of tourist destinations is concerned, it seems to me that this is a special topic for us to deal with and discuss for days. Hence, the participation of the grey economy in the tourism domain is simply seen as being present. We are aware of the fact that this very mentioned grey economy, as a priority task and the objective of these proposed changes and additions, cannot be eradicated overnight, all and that the proposed changes and additions have been legally and technically, normatively, however you will, are irrefutablely done. I do not dispute that there are a lot of good solutions, I have already said this myself, which concerns primarily the powers of inspection services, the management of tourist space, and to provisions that are mainly, not mainly, but certainly technical characteristics, and as regards compliance with the Law on Infringements and the Consumer Protection Act. What we have and what is evident are these strategic shortcomings that must be resolved in order to give us the right to claim, as it seems in the reasons for the adoption of the law, when it is said that the adoption of the act creates a legal framework for the successful and efficient management of tourism development, and that it also seeks to enable a higher degree of efficiency in the work of all entities in this area and the creation of new market opportunities. It seems to me that there would be an effective management of tourism development, the assumption is, at least in my personal opinion, that there must be an efficient development of tourism in order to develop governance. The facts in this sense are as follows: we are not yet there, and it should be said openly and clearly, as a tourist destination on the international market, we simply do not recognise, although we have, of course, all the potentials that are in favor of it; we have one completely unarticulated, almost unarticulated spatial regulation, which eats everything around us. I'm not going to spread the subject here, so I'm going to talk about some other problems that concern, let's say, state diameter and catastra. Then, we have a non-flexible, inefficient employment system, insufficient education and these changes and additions just seems to be a significant shift towards simply staying in the tourism domain of those people who possess enough knowledge, have enough educational capacity and professional qualifications to deal with the affairs that are listed in the law itself. Then we have a limit of access in terms of an insufficient number, like functional airports, we don't own low-cost airlines, nor do we do anything about it. We have, of course, one general, at the very least, riding in both road and rail and in river traffic. We could, say, see how in the summer, in the course of the tourist season, the works on the highway, how the stocks are closed, how the crowds are created, how angry tourists passing through the country of Serbia, as a transit country, go to sea, say, in Greece. If you define yourself to be staying and to choose one of our places that is quite, to say, inaccessible, then you come to the dilemma whether, rather than because of the state of our infrastructure, I am talking here in the front row about road traffic, drop the wheel on the car, or move the kidney. In the context of the tourism development goal in our country, our infrastructure, as I have already mentioned, is not what it should be and in no way can it contribute to what is called the security of the development of a positive international picture. In this place, I have to point to something I heard a few days ago, and it's about tourism. Of course, here in our neighborhood, on Decansko Street, I went behind a group of tourists from France, led by a tourist guide and heard a very clear guide say, as they were coming out of the History Museum of Serbia, I would show you and the National Museum, but he has been incarcerated for 12 years and all the authorities in Serbia have been saying that they will do something about it, but there is nothing, so you know this is a picture of our capital, welcome to Serbia. I don't think that's something any stranger, a visitor in the capital should hear, but unfortunately it's true and it's not a picture and it's nothing representative that should be part of our cultural tourism in Serbia. When I have already mentioned insufficient education, significant shifts in the aim of the proposed changes and additions, it is good that there is a requirement for professional training and work experience for the directors of the tourism organisation, because the appearance of unprofessional staff, which I have mentioned, is so striking, so obvious, and not only in the area of tourism, but in every sphere of our social life, is urgently imposing active measures to prevent this from happening. It is good that the conditions under which travel can be realized by union organisations are strictly prescribed. This is something that you have already mentioned during the opening exhibition, as well as other associations and other organisations, since there have been a lot of abuses in the past period. The competent inspection bodies shall be entrusted with part of the supervision of the application of the law itself and shall be subject to redistribution of the rights, obligations and powers of inspection services. This is one of the good solutions that achieves greater and territorial coverage, but increases the control of the collection and payment of the original incomes of local self-government units. For some time back, we could have heard from the media, when the amendment and supplementation we are discussing today was announced, that in the budget for the development of tourism in Serbia, of course, is not controversial, there are sufficient resources for such a thing. I don't think there's any money in the budget for that, but, well, you're here to deny me. If there is, then the question arises – why in the country where the austerity measures are introduced, how can we have money to develop tourism, and on the other hand we reduce pensions to pensioners and cut salaries? It is estimated that the positive effects of the law on citizens on the economy in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and the unit of local self-government will far exceed the costs of its application. I would, of course, like this to be achieved, but I express my doubts and concerns because tourism cannot be perceived as a cause of economic development. On the contrary, it is economic development that determines the dynamics of tourism development and it is not only in underdeveloped countries to which we belong, but also in developed countries. As for the preconditions for the introduction of tourist clusters, it should be stressed that it is precisely tourism competitiveness is created and created at the level of tourist clusters, not as very often it is wrong and thought and imposed on one national level. Essentially, today it is no longer in serious countries and it is not about tourist competitive countries, but it is about countries that own less or more competitive tourist clusters. The proposed changes and additions are the result of the public debate they participated in, responded or their participation, of course, taken up by a number of actors, and after the end of that public debate several meetings were organised, which actually created the need for their maintenance, which was in fact a resolute ministry as a proposer of these amendments and complemented have shown that there is hearing to respect the needs of all those who propose proposals, and these proposals are assessed as whole, as proper, as one good solution and as a professional solution, and indeed represent the same solutions as the proposal from the Association of Agricultural Tourism Households and the Camping Association of Serbia to also as part of a categorised rural tourist household just as a host and enable the provision of outdoor accommodation services. This is just one example of how the ministry simply felt the need to respect everything that proved to be a good solution, depending on the proposings who offered them. I hope that at least some of these sublegal acts that are necessary for the implementation of this law and in practice are already ready or already in the design phase, as it should be noted that we are witnesses that some laws in the country have not been applied to Serbia because they have never passed sublegal acts that would depend on their application. The need to encourage tourism development is certainly a solution that provides funds for participation in the financing of promotional activities of tourist destinations and tourist destinations, which is beyond the need, as well as of course tourist cultural and tourist events in the country as well as abroad and education and skills training programmes for tourism employees. Promotion of Serbia's tourist values, the way of precision in these proposed changes and additions, the provision of informational propaganda material finally finds its own definition, and this represents a pretty good solution. And the paper on the duty to specify all travel programmes for tourist agencies has finally found its place, and all in accordance with the directive that has already been mentioned several times in this debate. It is certain that there are a number of good solutions that I will not specifically mention since we have a debate in particular on the amendments that have been submitted. I hope, of course, that if there is no realisation of what is simple and defined as a priority of precisely proposed changes and additions, and that is, first of all, a reduction of the grey economy that is all present and on the agenda of tourism and on every plan of our country, then these changes and additions, if nothing else creates one suitable ground and certainly represents one step further towards raising awareness of all of us, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia about the need for its eradication, because without that it is impossible to create conditions that would contribute to further development of tourism in our country. Of course, in the voting day, since I have already mentioned that such proposed changes are a good legal solution, DHSS-PO will vote for the same, as well as for the remaining points in this principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35513	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35514	In addition to being able to agree with most of what you pointed out in this discussion, especially when we talk about the proposals and shortcomings of the tourism development strategy, that the previous strategy has not met the expectations of its realisation to the fact that a really bad infrastructure, a small number of functional airports, lack of "low bone" companies are also causing the smaller tourist traffic of the one we could objectively have. Just one clarification on budget funds. I said we were happy because in 2014 we had nothing. So when you come from zero to have 450 million dinars in your budget for the development of tourism infrastructure projects, and in terms of savings, then you certainly have a reason to be satisfied. Secondly, it is true that at one point we were afraid that there would be no adequate projects and the first month of our public call there was everything and everything but something that really contributed to the development of tourism infrastructure in the country. We deliberately, fully awarely went out with money in the budget, but we don't have quality projects. The epilogue in the end was that we funded 61 projects total, worth 450m euros, and that the other projects that were submitted, I'm not saying that they're all ideal, I'm not saying that they're all justified but there are unrealised projects worth 915m euros left. So, additional project projects in that value. Therefore, the funds are not enough and because of this poor infrastructure we could spend as much as we have and use them in the best possible way, but we have to act in accordance with the austerity measures we are carrying out and use the funds we have in the budget in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35515	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, I will base my exposure on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act because, together with my colleagues from the NS Group, I believe that the law recognises the importance of tourism, that the law promotes its development and that it is also designed to solve the problem that you, Mr. Ministers, have very well understood in these four groups, explaining this law. The NS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to the Tourism and Agreements on the agenda of this session in the voting day. Why is this law important? In my opinion, he foresees the introduction of order, a necessary order that has been waiting for many years in the work of tourist organisations. To carry out this order rightly gives greater authority to inspectors and, of course, it is very important to protect citizens, the security of citizens, because many are deceived, damaged by the use of tourist organisations. So the bank guarantee and insurance policies will be an important step in reducing the number of damaged tourists in my opinion. Also, I think this law will best allow one healthy competition, i.e. the strongest, best organised agencies to remain on the market. The law also gives the possibility of incentives for agencies brought by foreign tourists, which I also think is a very important newspaper, but they also set the conditions for how to form tourist organisations, how to join, because every city, every municipality has no such potential to have a tourist organisation. The "My Serbia" campaign has produced good results, it is good that it extends to next year. The citizens had complaints about the deadline for applying for the use of vouchers and by preparing for this debate I know that the ministry extended that deadline and that's good. What I still have to ask you about is a large number of citizens are procedures. They are aware that certain conditions and procedures must be met in order to use these vouchers, but whether they can in any way be made even easier for them to carry out the procedure more quickly. You mentioned in response to my colleague, Olgici Batic, that the ministry, i.e. the government, had foreseen a number of funds for projects for local self-government. Out of 450 million, only 74 million were spent. This information is not true, but I do know that many projects have not been used because they were simply not adequate, they have not met the conditions and on this issue my question is for you – what does the ministry do to make better use of the funds provided for projects of local self-government and tourism organisations and agencies in the area of local self-government? The fact that 10.3% more tourists visited Serbia this quarter this year is certainly encouraging. The liberalisation that has been given to certain countries of the Middle East and Latin America has contributed to that. Also, you said that the participation of tourism in the overall social product is about 1.8% and yes, you said you expected it to be about 3% in the next period. What else does it take to be 3% and when do you expect that increase? It is very important for Serbia besides rural tourism and Banish tourism. I know the ministry has made a recommendation to determine a privatisation advisor who will propose a ten-bain privatisation model in Serbia. It is clear that in the development of Banjska tourism we need fresh and new capital, but I think we can take some positive experiences and learn from countries in the environment. Hungary has 1,000 thermal springs as well as Serbia, but what Serbia does not have are those accommodation facilities Hungary has and which participates with 9% in the country's gross social product and employs even 11% of the total working-age population. I think somewhere we as citizens don't realize that long-term investment is needed in the development of tourism, but we simply give up some incentives, some investments because we don't have a very fast turnover of funds. I think that you as a ministry and as people who work in this area are fully aware that tourism revenues are at about every step of the way, they just need to be channeled and exploited in the best possible way. Getting ready for this debate cannot be due to citizens of Serbia without giving yet another positive example of Great Britain, which in 2014 earned the total profit of Serbia for 2014, except that tourists were coming to watch the live British football league. For me, too, it's fascinating and Turkey. She is the sixth country in the world by visitation, and 30 years ago she was completely touristically uninteresting. She was almost nowhere. Today, it is a tourist boom, and regardless of any environment it has with Syria and Iraq, it is very unstable, making over $35 billion of revenue and almost 42 million of foreign tourists visit the country. So, like I said, the law is good. I'd have two more questions for you. Prior to the debate on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act, certain directors of tourism organisations in Serbia have appeared to me, telling me that around criteria for categorisation of objects are not best set up. I didn't go any deeper into that analysis, but I just wanted you to answer this question for me. Since the law provides for local self-government to also hire an inspection service, my question is - how can local self-government do so when they don't have the possibility of hiring? So, do you have any kind of redistribution of inspectors in that area, and we know that there are about 100 of them, and that's a very small number, that there is field surveillance in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia? So, just once again, I would like to say that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support amendments to this law and agreements on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35517	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Dr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35518	Let me try to answer these five questions you asked. So the procedure for the vouchers will certainly be simplified. We had to be careful, because it was a single pilot project. In literally four days, we have prepared a regulation on vouchers, taking into account a negative campaign that has been conducted frequently and with a mockery of action and activity. We were afraid of abuse and so we gave one procedure which, I admit now from this point of view has made it a little complicated and probably reduced the number of those vouchers that would want to use, but we're more at the end than satisfied. I already mentioned, about 13,000 vouchers were issued, 112,000 overnights. So people used vouchers and more than five days as a condition that they could get 5,000 dinars what the value of a voucher is. We have received complaints from citizens, those who were interested, that will now be taken into account, when we start a new regulation on vouchers as of January 1st. As for the funds used, I said we used what we had. Practically, the deadline for the project application expired today. So there's a lot of projects left, over a hundred projects we won't be able to finance. The value of the project is 915 million dinars, and I mentioned it because we don't have funds in the budget. I think what we did, someone said during this debate, that the topic of tourism has become current, that many local self-governments are also much more animated and interested in helping develop tourism in their municipalities and we expect more quality projects next year, except for those that we have already received. As for our projections and plans to increase tourism from 1.8% to 3% in GDP. It depends on all the conditions mentioned here by those who discussed it. So, the first condition without which there is no development of tourism anywhere, not just with us, is infrastructure. With roads like this, we can do a lot of things with a lack of communication. We can pass laws, strategies, rules, unfortunately that goal will not be achieved. So infrastructure is the key thing. The other thing is, it's more functional airports, more low budget airlines flying and transporting passengers at lower prices. The fourth condition is that we finally privatise the spas and complete the privatisation process of these spas. Without that, we have one dead capital that we don't use to the point that needs to be used. The fifth thing is to attract both domestic and foreign investment in the tourism sector. We need more investment in this sector, building new hotels, new tourist facilities, and that's also something without which there is no achievement of this target of 3%. The sixth thing, and it seems to me that we have partially succeeded in that, which is that tourism gets meaning as economic, not just a category of entertainment and entertainment. Tourism significantly contributes to the growth of every country's economy, and we think that there is a chance for us to do so. As far as this rule of categorization is concerned, he will be brought in next week. So it's a new regulation on minimum technical conditions and others on standards, and it's going to remove some of the illogicalities that you've been talking about and which are rightly referred to by representatives of social organisations. Tourist inspection at the bar - it will not be allowed to receive new tourist inspectors at the bar, it is a ban that applies to everyone, but local self-government will use existing municipal inspectors, so those inspectors who normally work at the local level will be entrusted with those competences we spoke of. If there is no capacity for this, then the Republic's inspection, as so far, will address these problems, i.e. inspection controls and local self-government units. Therefore, there will be no legal void or fear that a certain space will remain uncovered with inspection supervision.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35519	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Branka Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35520	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished guests from the ministry, respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, tourism is certainly the most promising branch of the economy, as investment in tourism generates the development of traffic, infrastructure, food industry, agricultural industries, furniture, textiles, etc. But, at the same time, the development of tourism must be due to the synergy of various social activities, because there is no, as the minister has just said, no tourist destination without a good path, no hotel and catering complexes, but, at the same time, well-designed culture policies, as well as concerns about cultural heritage. We need good educational programmes to make appropriate programmes for student and youth tourism. The role of the tourism ministry is to develop a strategy for developing this branch, to develop and promote Serbia's tourism potential, and to co-ordinate all territorial tourism organisations and other participants in the tourist offer in co-operation with the Tourist Organisation of Serbia. The ministry and the Serbian Tourist Organisation achieve regional co-operation, integrate Serbia into world, European and regional tourism associations, improve the level of tourist offers and products and simultaneously control, reward, encourage and sanction all workers in this area. Tourism is an economic branch that is subject to relatively frequent changes, is flexible, adapts to modern trends, uses modern modern technologies and monitors the needs and requirements of users. Due to all this, the ministry has drafted a proposal to amend the Tourism Act. Of course, we're talking about the 2009 Law, which is because of everything I've said and changed in 2010, 2011 and 2012, and here we have the latest changes today. What's new about this law? The law is too much in line with international regulations and, meanwhile, laws in the Republic of Serbia. The law introduces new modern methods, concepts and areas of business through these new technologies, redistribution of competences, strengthening the management and control function of local self-government, but at the same time tourist destinations can be trusted in the management of destination management of the organization, of course, with the aim of offering as many tourist facilities as possible to the users. The tourism development strategy is adopted for a minimum of five years, as proposed by this law, and its implementation is defined through the action plan, repeatedly mentioned, with the right, because it is given importance. The strategy for tourism development is certainly the most important document which over-analyzes the preconditions and looks at the advantages and limitations of a country, trends and potentials, international and local, defining objectives and strategies. New in this law is required to draw up this action plan, and here, in order not to repeat, all what the colleagues said, the strategy earlier probably did not come to life because there was no action plan. The most important newspaper in the proposed law is the planning of specific incentives in Serbia's budget for promotional, development and educational programmes in tourism. Currently, if I'm not mistaken, Minister, you've said 450m euros, I've found some different, smaller statistics, but it's good that 450m euros to improve tourism and this, regardless... (Rasim Ljajic, from place: Dinara. Of course, it's about dinars. And of course this is certainly not enough. On the other hand, the law extends the jurisdiction of TOS because TOS has its jurisdiction to promote domestic products abroad, but, on the other hand, it, according to its systematisation and business, should participate much more actively in improving the quality of the domestic product. I think it is important to say that the Serbian Tourist Organisation has left its mark through various promotional gatherings and fairs, representing Serbia's economy, but I think it has done relatively little in coordination, improving the quality of Serbia's tourist offer. What do our statistics and world statistics say? Results and progress in tourism revenues have been seen in the past two years. Direct revenues from tourism in 2013 were $1.053 billion; in 2014 a rise of 4.5% to $1.1 billion was made, and in 2015, I read some of your statements, $1.3 billion in tourism revenue is expected. Are we completely satisfied? I'm sure we didn't. As you said just before, the income from tourism in the gross social product is about 1.8% or 1.9%, which is certainly not enough when compared to the countries in the environment and when we know that in Croatia the percentage is 12.2%, although they are the country of tourism, in Montenegro is 9.8%, but also in Bosnia and Herzegovina 3%. The European average income from tourism is 10%. I think this ministry in this system has done a lot and a lot. Of course, we are confident that this positive trend will continue. The number of employees in Serbia's tourism is around 35,000, and related branches of 86,000. According to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, to reassure some skeptics, this is what it said - in January-July 2015 in the Republic of Serbia, a total of 1,376,000 tourists, 13% higher than in January-July 2014. The domestics were, not counting numbers, 13% higher, which is 55% of the total number of guests, and the foreign ones are also 13% higher. But this relationship, which had always been much more in favour of domestic guests, has now somehow been balanced, so this ratio is 55% to 40% more balanced. There are more than 10% foreign guests in Belgrade, and in the Banja Towns 36, but the starting point is relatively small, it is 42,000 guests. There are a lot of growth in mountainous places - 15%, and so on. Statistics are pretty good. I've been thinking a lot, Minister, and I'm going to tell you something that I'm sure you won't like to hear. I expect to descend by one step lower on the scale of your friends, but I have heard one sentence from many people who are engaged in tourism, both foreign and domestic, and that is – the most beautiful thing that could happen to tourism – that is Rasim Ljajic. I know you don't like it, and I don't like communication like this either, but, well, it's just, it's mine to say, it's not for you, it's not for MPs, it's not for the Ministry, it's for the public. What do world statistics say? They say that from 2000 to 2014, the rise in revenues from tourism is constantly rising, except for some exceptions in 2009, and from some starting $475 billion in some 2000, as of 2014, has increased to $1,245 billion. Of course, now it's clear why we're all talking about tourism so much and why we put all the accent on the development of tourism, 10% of the world's income-free economy actually wastes on tourism. It would be good if we could make that percentage happen in our country. Of the 184 countries, Serbia is currently in 102nd place and I hope that, since the changes in the law and a little more seriousness in all segments of the tourism economy, the place will rise upwards. Serbia stands well in all statistics. However, we have set, as a ministry, us as MPs, through this law set a little more ambitious goals because more needs to be made, and for this it is necessary to adopt a new strategy for development of tourism and action plan, plan to invest in tourism and infrastructure, invest in education, which, of course, makes the law, actively participate in competitions for the EU fund in the areas of tourism, it is necessary to monitor world trends and listen to the demands of a modern tourist who wants an active and meaningful holiday. This law brings changes to the previous ones just in the direction of all that I have stated. So we have financial incentives, we have education, we have protection of the interest of tourists, we have principled sanctions against the perpetrators, we have the establishment of standards and everything else. The state creates an ambiance for investment in tourism, and it's good, but I don't know how much, to encourage a prescription because right now in Serbia, of all agencies, only 4% deals with prescriptions. It is necessary to provide stable budgets and to engage maximumly in competitions for EU funds. On the other hand, the development of tourism is not only the work of one ministry, but it must be a strategy, a country's definition, and it requires the synergy of all the factors you have talked about, both you, ministers and most MPs. There is no Banjski tourism without agreement with the Ministry of Health, and there is also no without good social policy. What about our sports tourism? What about our educational tourism? In its strategy for tourism development, Croatia has stated that it gives priorities to tourism branches that bring secure profits and for which there are financial incentives in the EU, which are: nautical tourism, I don't think we have much chance, business, cultural, health, gastronomy, enology, rural, golf tourism, business and sports tourism and eco tourism. I underline that golf tourism is listed as completely separate from sports tours. I might say a little more about that later. Pre-accession IPA programmes are planned for both infrastructure and human resources through education. Tourism is an industry of entertainment and pleasure, and investment in staff achieves a new level of tourist offer. In Serbia, congress tourism is on the rise and we have a lot of preconditions to develop it, but I think we need to enrich the accompanying content, so that we can run and better place ourselves on that list of destinations of congress tourism. In June of this year, the World Tourism Organisation organised a conference in Antwerp where the priorities were precisely defined in the selection of congress destinations. Guests of congress demand additional content and, let's say, one of the questions was – how many golf courses are in the area. Unfortunately, the whole of Serbia has only two courts with nine holes, so I am taking this opportunity to say a little bit and initiate any thought on the development of golf tourism. Here's some statistics. According to Oxford Economics, golf in Europe generates an income of 48.3 billion euros, of which on golf tourism waste -- tourism -- this generates total golf revenues, but on golf tourism costs 7.8 billion euros. Croatia also said in its strategy -- golfers bring 240m euros annually to Ireland, Croatia wants to earn more. Let's make a little less money, but let's make some of it. Croatia will soon have eight golf courses. In Europe there are 6,757 terrains, golfers have 7,800,000, most in England 1.5 million, 600,000 France, Germany 400,000, Austria and Italy of 100,000, the Czech Republic, for example, 55,000, in Serbia and Croatia there are thousands. Bulgaria, with only 1,500 golfers, has seven golf courses and is already listed as one of the most desirable tourist golf destinations, and of course, the best example is the City of Belek in Turkey, which was one ordinary fishing place with beautiful beaches, badly visited. They built 20 golf courses. Due to the extremely high demand, the lack of time to play, they are currently building three more golf courses. Antalya is one of the most desirable golf destinations. Of course, large projects are not always needed to care for the map of world tourist destinations. Every year in January, the UN World Tourism Organisation awards a prize for tourism excellence. This year, 14 awards were awarded in Madrid. I'll just say some, just to figure out what level of candidate projects are being rewarded. For example, the Peru Tourist Organization received a prize for the project “What do you plan to do? “ Croatian Tourist Organization "Tastes and Smells Losinj", a camp in Tanzania, is what a camp, Amsterdam, can provide, of course, as a congress destination. At the very end, I would like to say that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, will support this law because it verifies bilateral agreements and regional co-operation, plans joint tourism products, sustainable development and competitiveness, affirmations of state incentives in tourism and the private sector and invests in education raising the level of quality of tourist destinations. All of this, of course, will end as a result of better employment, so, of course, economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35521	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic, head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35522	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister and guests of the Ministry, first of all, I would like to welcome the fact that this law that you are defending in front of the government today did not come into the procedure of the assembly as the government's laws normally come by emergency procedure, without the possibility of MPs getting to know each other in the right way with the proposed solutions, to consult and prepare for the debate. Thank you for that. I hope that, as Deputy Prime Minister, you will be able to influence the government a little bit that other members of the government are working in your way, systematically approaching the amendments of the law and sending them here without the "emergency procedure" to allow us to read the laws and prepare well for them. What was interesting to me at first is – the law, although amended and complemented, is quite extensive. Over 60 members are to amend the applicable provisions of the law. You know that, as a rule, if half the provisions of the law change, a new law should be written. This is somewhere on the border. It may have been possible to write a new law, but I am glad that this current law, the basic law that is being amended today, was passed in 2009, was changed after 2010, 2011 and 2012, and that, behold, something from this terrible time, a bad and terrible one, could benefit the citizens of Serbia and in the previous three years well enough for tourism to develop. Unfortunately, tourism has not developed in Serbia to the extent that it is developing in the world. Today we have heard little about how important it is to the branch, how much money it brings to the countries, how much it employs citizens. Unfortunately, we're well below that level. I hope these changes contribute to making things better. What concerns me, however, is the fact, I have seen little, let's say, how much of the participation in tourism revenues, the number of overnight stays and similar things, domestic and foreign tourists. I took a look at the data for Spain, which is one of the world's tourist destinations. Despite the fact that a large number of foreign tourists are coming, 55% of the revenues and the number of overnight stays in Spain are made by domestic tourists. They had a huge fall in 2009 because during the global economic crisis, domestic tourism was primarily at risk. We, unfortunately, as much as we talk here about the development of tourism and the measures that the government has reached about these vouchers this year, I'm afraid we can't expect a more significant growth in domestic tourism with such low citizens' incomes. I'm telling you this first and foremost as Deputy Prime Minister, not as Minister. So, this government, here's three and a half years of its term of office, every year the average earnings are less and less. In such conditions, it is not realistic to expect that people who don't have enough money to survive, to buy basic supplies, to pay growth bills, taxes that grow and all that can separate money for domestic tourism. Another problem, of course, is the offer Serbia can offer. We have no sea, a certain number of people like to go to sea over the summer, and I see that the prime ministers have had criticism this year that they have dared to go to sea. How they spend money on the sea, and then demand state money or subsidies for free textbooks or something like that. I couldn't really see any connection between these two things, but I think the way we force citizens to make such statements that they turn to domestic tourism is simply not appropriate and will not bring about effect. What needs to be done, what you said, infrastructure development, education, investment in projects and programmes. Good, and I agree with you that the tourism budget compared to 2014 has been increased from zero to 450 million dinars. I don't know how much you're going to fight next year to be a budget, but I think it's a way, and I find it interesting, you said here several times in the discussion that we lack functional airports and a larger number of "low bone" companies to develop primarily this international foreign tourism. The fact is that the government's mandate reduced the number of "low bone" companies flying from Serbia, which was done because it favoured the domestic airline. We have one side of the company, that I don't speak names here now because I don't want to advertise anyone, but the fact is that it's leading in the region, it's got huge growth, it's now announced a purchase of 120 Airbus planes, it reduces every year the number of flights from Serbia. I hope that in that strategy something will be done about it. It is good that Serbia has a national carrier but I think it should not be competition with "low bone" companies but that one other area and another target group of tourists should cover. Now a few things about concrete legal solutions. As far as I've been able to understand from reading, the greatest number of things is the correction of what has been shown in practice in previous years as not clear enough, related to terms or certain things precise, specify better and better offices as well as aligning with European directives, and we welcome it and we think that these solutions are good. We have several suggestions, we have made amendments to this and what we say was interesting is that the provision that existed in the old law is back, that is, changed for the last time, and it is related to part of the costs relating to passing expert examinations of tourist guides. This was previously at the expense of those who passed those professional exams, and by changes in 2012, it was returned to the burden of local self-government and apparently there was not enough money in the budget. It probably resulted in a smaller number of tourist guides and is now returning this solution that these costs will be borne by those who want to be tourist guides. At the end of the line, I see that the costs now, the costs of passing exams, the issuing of the legitimacy license, are now going to be the revenue of the budget. I hope that part of the revenue will remain in the budget of your ministry for the development of tourism and tourism projects that we talked about earlier. What we think would be good is a change regarding the appointment of the Director of the Tourist Organisation of Serbia. You say that conditions are defined for the Director and it is proposed to be appointed by the Government, and therefore local self-government, where there are tourist organisations established in local self-governments we added that this choice should be based on a public competition. Simply, the policy of this government is more transparent than those of the previous and we believe and hope that you will accept this solution. What we are concerned about and what I have been listening to here from most fellow Members and from ministers in the previous debate is the fact that one of the problems and the great grey zone in this area is tourism. In the light of this law, it is said that the adoption of amendments to these solutions will reduce this tourism, and what I was worried about, I did not see that it will increase, or how the number of inspectors will increase, because as one reason for the increase and the inability to deal with the gray zone in tourism, a small number of inspectors are listed. It is said that there is not at all one in Kopalnik or Vranjska Banja, but I am concerned, you have now said there will be no new employment at the inspector's posts, but it will be taken over by the municipal police in certain segments. I'm not sure that's enough and I'm simply taking this opportunity to ask you if, since I couldn't read it in the light of the law, whether an increase in the number of inspectors or some reorganisation was planned. In what way, by concrete measures, how much money the state intends to spend, because it is necessary to reduce this gray zone in tourism, so please the Ministers for Answer. In the end, you said in your presentation that it was scheduled by the end of this year, I think six sublegal acts to bring three in the full trimester next year. We have noticed that you have not put a deadline in the law for these sublaws and we have put on an amendment that somewhat fits with these deadlines that you have foreseen. We think and that is the practice of our parliamentary group not to leave that deadline at the free will of the ministries for the adoption of sublegal acts, because it is one of the main causes of people who deal with the economy in Serbia that the sublaws are not brought in on time, and in some cases we have heard they never come in. Somewhere, I think, is the average time for sublegal acts in Serbia for 715 days. So, almost two years. Please, since our deadline is set for three months, and you've now said it takes you about half a year to try and make a legal commitment. I can trust you to work on it and that it's prepared, and I think it's a good idea to establish that practice to lay down by law the time in which the law will be passed, because it practically allows the law to be applied. This is how we're going to get into a situation, as we've heard that the individual legal solutions that exist in the old law, simply because no sublegal act has been passed, have not been applied and we haven't achieved the effect that the law was meant to achieve. We will be related to these amendments and the additions of the law are defined at the end of the debate both in general and in particular. We believe that in principle the law is good and there are not many controversial things in it, but we want to see how the ministry will treat our amendments. As far as international agreements are concerned, they are of course acceptable to us and our parliamentary group Boris Tadic – SDS – ZZS – will vote for all agreements in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35523	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister Dr Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35524	Just a few clarifications, it is not a replica of what Mr. Djurisic said. So this year after a long series, we have a growth of domestic and foreign tourists, and that's about the same thing as 12.5% and each other, which is significant because last year we objectively, primarily because of the floods, had a decline of more than 10% of domestic tourists. This growth is in both mountain centres and in Banja towns, we also have a growth in domestic tourists' overnight stays by 6.7%. I also have precise statistics here, so domestic tourists were 91,000 this year. Individual places, domestic tourists, were the largest in Vranjska Banja, which increased by 20.5%, in Belgrade, we have a 1.3% drop in domestic tourists, 104% in Belgrade. There's a 30% or 79,000 growth in Zlatibor on the Bath 66,000 or a 42.4% increase. The high rise due to the low base was recorded on Divchibara, as much as 62%, the Old Mountain as 42%. Since the spa, there's a Vruži spa, 27%, a Vrdnik 24%, a Vrnjačka spa with 20.5% and a Bane Break 20%. Therefore, despite the objectively reduced purchasing power due to the global crisis, because of the economic crisis, the reforms we are implementing, we have had an increase in the number of domestic tourists, and that is a great success. Success is also due to the fact that this action has given more than good results about sharing a voucher. We had no intention of competing with those who would fly somewhere at sea and it was a lost battle and no one had any ambition to make arguments about why it is better to fly here, not at sea. We only went out with one action aimed at helping those who decide to spend part of their vacation in Serbia and the result is the least, and we expect that the number will be larger in these 15 days, is 120,000 overnight stays, which were used by citizens with vouchers, and there were 13,000 and 100 to yesterday. As for the passing of the exam, we returned the solution that was two years ago, because this solution was illogical and it was reportedly introduced in that guillotine process, if we remember, but it turned out to be not rational. We had limited resources in the budget, and a huge number of reported guides and now they're taking one for free, and there's no money for the other to do that and the expert exam is nowhere to be free and we have to go back to the solutions that we think are much more cellular at this point, and ultimately, from the point of view of the budget, more rational. As for the election of directors, I have no objection that they are elected in competitions, and we have indicated clearly this condition and the rules to be followed, however, during the process of drafting the law, we have received an interpretation that under the Law on Public Services, they will be elected, and this is the solution that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35525	The word has an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Sinisa Maksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35526	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, today I will speak as an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group about a set of laws within the framework of the first joint single search. First of all, I would like to talk about the law on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act that we consider extremely important, primarily because of the fact that tourism is a great development opportunity for Serbia and that it should be one of Serbia's most important directions. The amendments to the law we are talking about today represent an improvement of existing legal solutions, as well as compliance with EU law and country regulations in the environment. These changes are the result of what is said to be explained by the analysis of the situation in the tourism market and the perception of the problems facing the tourism economy and other entities whose activity is directly linked to tourism. I'd like to comment on some of the solutions that I consider to be improved and better, and I'd go from the gray economy, even though it's not the very beginning of the law. As in other business activities and tourism, one of the priorities is to reduce the grey economy. To that end, the law redistributes the rights, obligations and powers of inspection services by entrusting a significant part of the supervision of the application of the law to local self-government, i.e. authorised inspection bodies of local administrations. In addition, the obligation to register all tourist entities in the tourism register to be run by the Business Registers Agency will provide more adequate control. All entities from tourist resorts, organisations, hunting houses and tourist guides and escorts will be registered in this register. It is good to define the existing and introduce new concepts more precisely. The law also gives wider space to local tourism organisations and Serbia's tourist organisation to participate in creating and promoting and valorising Serbia's tourist offer. We will all agree that the investment of promotion in Serbia's tourism has been symbolic for decades, and sometimes there were none, even some local administrations have denied funds or have fiercely criticised local tourism organisations for each spent dinar, and then the general public has fallen on them. That is why we need to reaffirm the role and position of tourism organisations that are tasked with performing, promoting local tourism potentials and fighting for their valorisation. A good legal solution is that in order to encourage tourism development in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it will also provide funds for participation in the financing of promotional activities, tourist destinations and tourist resorts, tourism and tourism events in the country and abroad, as well as for education, training programmes, and that, the skills of tourism employees. Part of the budget will also be directed to foster and improve tourism for domestic tourists and organised tourism transport, foreign tourists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the law should ensure responsible, effective and efficient management of tourism development, but also greater efficiency in the work of all tourist entities participating in the formation and placement of Serbia's tourist offer. In this light, the government of the Republic of Serbia's commitment to tourism and development was also observed. These changes and additions to the Tourism Act that we are talking about today, I see today as such a state goal, that Serbia should invest in tourism and that it can provide an even better place on Europe's tourist map, and this also tells us the constant trend in the growth of tourism traffic, and in particular an increasing foreign exchange inflow from tourism. In 2014, Serbia earned $1.1 billion from tourism. This positive trend has contributed to Serbia's better position as a state, as a safe tourist attractive destination, but also a visa liberalisation that has enabled more foreign tourists. These positive trends should be a strong motive, not only for the state to invest in this business branch, but also for the tourism economy itself, to develop and improve the quality of its offer and become competitive. The state needs a favourable legal framework and selected stimulating measures to encourage the development of tourism, because it is an economic branch, which, apart from agriculture, generates a foreign exchange inflow. When we talk about incentive measures, I would like to point out the measure of our government, "My Serbia", which, vouchers, has been stimulated by Serbian citizens to fly to Serbia. This measure directly affects the increase of domestic tourism traffic, increased use of housing capacity and what is important, the reduction of foreign exchange outflows. At the same time, the tourism industry must also work to improve and modernise its offer, to attract as many domestic tourists as possible. We Socialists support this measure, and we think this should become one of the more long-term measures, as in the store, we have a buy-home action, which we also support. Serbia must protect its production and its market. In addition, the large countries of Europe protect primarily domestic production and domestic services and one developed Germany has achieved 70% of tourism traffic from domestic tourism, as it promotes the development of domestic tourism. Dear fellow MPs, the Tourism Act also regulates the adoption of a tourism development strategy as a strategic development document. By the end of this year, a new national tourism development strategy for 2015-2025 should be adopted, setting new development goals. Tourism should become one of the factors of Serbia's balanced regional development, which is possible because each region of Serbia has some valuable tourist potential around which a quality tourist offer can be formed. Therefore, the strategy should open new opportunities for the development of underdeveloped tourist regions. We know that, according to the current effects, Serbia as a tourist destination is recognised by Belgrade, Kopalnik, Zlatibor, Vrnjačka Banja, but also the Dragačevska trumpet, EXITA. I would particularly draw attention to the importance of the Kopalnik mountain centre, which is Serbia's largest and most equipped tourist product. I personally participated in the construction of the tourist offer of Kopalnik, building and managing some tourist facilities for a while. The bathroom is an entire tourist region that needs to be developed in an integrated and sustainable manner. It's also a national park with protected natural resources. At the foot of the spa is Josianska, Lukovska, something further Prolojska, Kursumliska and others. In the area are numerous monuments of culture, and the most significant medieval monasteries of Studenica, Žiča and Kraševec Lazarev City and the church of Lazarica. Then, the Jordan Valley. Part of this tourist region can be considered an extremely attractive area of Golia, which represents a real and perspective tourist product. It's also important to think seriously about the shadowy cave high. Therefore, the development of all these potentials must be fully monitored. As a tourist destination, the bathing party should circle investment by building some more content, in order to achieve the full economic effect of the investments so far. First of all, I'm thinking of building two gondolas, one from the direction of Speed, and the other from the direction of Raska. Connecting to the ski resort built capacities in Brzec from the Brussels side and in the mountains towards Raškoj would put themselves in office and create conditions for further investment in these areas. This in a very short time can bring about 1,000 new employees in this area. In this context, it is necessary to access the construction of a protection barrier on the way to Srebrenica, in order to avoid the frequent closure of this route due to snow applications during the full season. But in addition to affirmed destinations, Serbia must devote itself to developing new ones and take care of more uniform development of undeveloped areas. Almost as a rule, in undeveloped areas there are many tourist potentials, to mention Vlasina and Jasrabac, as exceptional potentials for summer and winter tourism. Unfortunately, Vlasina is the only mountain tourist centre that has no cable, so it is one of the reasons why this exceptional destination is insufficient. Then, I remind you of Vranjska, Sijarinska Banja, Bujanovska and other spas, which are very modestly exploited and possess vast natural wealth, thermal waters with great potential. For example, the Sijarin Bath has 26 mineral springs, and it has the only natural geyser on the continent, but it is very modestly equipped in terms of accommodation capacity, so it cannot be competitive enough. This size of thermal waters of high temperatures flow into the river, as is the case in our spas, would certainly not allow much more developed countries, on the contrary. We have leaders in Banja tourism, which are primarily Vrnjačka Banja, which, apart from Belgrade, Zlatibor and Kopalnik, has the largest tourist traffic, then Soko Banja, Bukovica, Vrdnik, Junaković, Ribarska Banja, but we also have these small and undeveloped spas with thermal waters of over 200 litres per second that need to be affirmed and provide investments and put into function untapped potentials. We know that quality tourism does not exist without good traffic and tourist infrastructure, so this aspect should also be seen through the tourist plan act. In particular, in spas there is a need to modernise tourist infrastructure and content. I mean first of all, building a spa, fitness center, as well as modern and competitive content. In view of the potential of the spa, the state could apply the same development model as the ski resort in financing the development of the spa. Serbia is both a transit country and transit tourism could gain much more, but in order to be competitive, you must have a quality and well-designed product and motivate tens of thousands of tourists who pass through Serbia to come right here. Tourism is a working intensive and low-accumulated branch, which is why it is a developmental opportunity to employ a large number of people. This is how the development of all types of tourism for which we have potentials, mountainous, health, cultural, congressional, transit, rural, hunting, nautical, etc. As a significant factor in tourism development, I would underline the role of catering. We know that the hotel economy is an essential part of every tourist destination, almost 60% of the income comes from the hotel. That's why it's important to stimulate and affirm it. 327 hotels were categorized by 1 August 2015 in Serbia, and there are many more. Those who have not categorized believe that the regulation on categorisation in some elements is stricter than in many countries of Europe. To remind me that the categorization of the hotel began in 1994 when this area was first decorated by the Tourism Act. It may also be helpful to consider introducing a voluntary restaurant categorization, which would certainly increase the quality of gastronomy. Then, to mention the proposal of our hotelers who are receptive holders to consider the legal possibility of part of the residence tax, let's say 10% leave it to hotels and other facilities that collect, charge, pay local budgets. It would be a condition for this amount to be used for the promotional activities of the hotel, i.e. the facilities in which taxes and collection are collected. This measure would be a very important incentive for hotelers to place their offers better on the domestic and international market. This would increase the hotel's profits, as well as the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The issue of hotel staff and tourism is also important. The staff must have modern knowledge, but also pass through serious practical training programmes to meet the needs of modern tourists with selective requirements. I would take the opportunity to mention another segment of tourism, it's child youth tourism. Special attention should be paid to him and to the development documents and to the law. Perhaps even the notion of child and youth tourism could have been defined by Article 3 of this Law. Then there is also a problem with organising and conducting excursions that can be defined as educational children's and youth tourism. It is known that schools and agencies are subject to major restrictions due to the application of the Law on Public Procurement, so that due to the repetition of tenders and other deadlines for their realization, they are often outsourced and not implemented. This question is not the subject of this law, but it needs to be adequately resolved in order to enable our children to have this kind of educational content. Finally, to highlight one of the successes of our tourist workers a few days ago, on World Tourism Day, the Serbian Tourist Organisation awarded the highest annual recognitions to tourists and here it shows what the real quality of Serbian tourism is. I would like to congratulate this among all the winners of the "Tourist Flower" award. It is a sign that Serbia can achieve high quality in all segments of tourism, and this can not only because it has facilities, but because it has people with heart, hospitality and openness. Dear MPs, I would also briefly refer to the certification laws of four other agreements, which are being discussed in the context of this search. First of all, this is the proposal for a law on confirming amendments to the status of the world tourism organisation. The Republic of Serbia has been a full member of the World Tourism Organisation since 2001. It is also important to point out that our country is re-elected in the second term of membership in the Executive Council of the World Tourism Organisation for the period 2013. - 2017 as a representative of Europe and the region. That is why as members of this organization we are obliged to ratify the amendments to the statutes of this organisation relating to the financial rules in the way of selecting the Secretary-General of the World Tourism Organisation in order to improve our country's tourism policy and adequate positioning on the world tourist map. Then, today, we should also ratify the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia in the area of tourism. The agreement with the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of tourism improves the bilateral relationship between our two countries in general, especially in the field of tourism, and thus creates an institutional framework to strengthen cooperation between individual tourism partners, which deepens mutual economic co-operation. Multiple and mutual benefits of such an agreement, based on which our two countries will in future exchange information through statistical data, then encourage mutual participation in tourism fairs, as well as collectively represent destinations of both countries in the overseas markets. Today we ratify another agreement with the Republic of Macedonia. This is the Agreement on Economic Co-operation, which provides for the continuity of bilateral economic co-operation, as the previous agreement with the Republic of Macedonia ceased to apply in January 2013. For this reason, it was initiated to conclude a new agreement that would create conditions for further improving our two countries' economic co-operation on long-term grounds, taking into account the fact that the trade exchange between Serbia and Macedonia is growing year by year, and in 2014 it recorded a trend of growth of 643,8m euros and was not negligible for our overall foreign trade. Today we should also confirm the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia. Economic and trade co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA member states takes place under the Free Trade Agreement, which came into force in 2011. Confirmation of this Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Trade Agreement provides our country with additional protection, as they amend and supplement their obligations under the relevant Conventions on the protection of the environment to international labour standards, as well as the promotion of investments favouring sustainable development. How important the area of environmental protection for our country is, and this agreement has great importance. Finally, in the day to vote, all of these laws from this joint search, the SPS parliamentary group will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35527	Thank you, Mr Maximovic. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the SNS National MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35528	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, has been said quite a bit in this agenda, and I think that the constructive debate was also on the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, but it is certain that the amendments and additions of this Tourism Act are a great deal of attention, especially as the list of speakers has a very large number, so this is a topic in which we really have a lot to say, regardless of what my colleagues have been saying so far. The basis of this law at all has proved that it is not only the regulation of this whole area, but also the part relating to the arrangements and work of tourist organisations that are directly in contact with users, i.e. passengers and as we have had the opportunity to see, the law is one thing, and life is something else entirely. It's because of all the problems that are happening, and they're most visible somewhere when it's time for vacations, it's obvious that there was a need for major changes and additions. What is important is to say that this law passed a public debate in January 2015. This meant that it really took a lot of time for all these changes and repairs to be done to come in this form. But first of all, the aim of this law and these changes is to eliminate certain problems that have arisen in the economy itself, because there are different entities on the market in general offerings and demand in tourism. In addition to this section concerning the face-to-face of all these entities on the market, we also have these EU directives, which we are obliged to agree on, and we have that Consumer Protection Act, which should be harmonised. It's a good thing that at the end of these changes and additions, they should give one cellular solution. What is important to say is that by introducing new concepts that you have given in this law, such as managers and management companies, but related to certain destinations and related to certain changes when we talk about congress tourism actually give a new light, a new seal to this legislative proposal, but also show that Serbia is really going far ahead in this portfolio. In addition, it should be said that it also strengthens the competitiveness of this sector, but not only within the competition that happens with the businesses in Serbia, but also those in our environment. You can notice that somewhere in the private sector, it has always recognised sectors that are in the upward path, and you can visit certain economic operators today who have really done a lot of things about tourism and raised one level of that service to a level that I think is higher than with countries in the environment, and even those that are EU members. On the other hand, you have, say, unfinished privatisation and a lot of objects that have still remained in some social enterprise status, and they are not in the system to go bankrupt, nor have they ever been mentioned to be an integral part of the privatisation and simple tattoos as objects, which really require the state to do so in a certain way as quickly as possible and, of course, the Ministry brings it in. It's a good thing you've organized this intersectoral, how to say, inter-minister commission, which needs to be solved in an adequate way and privatization, the part that separates the Republic of the Centre, means, it separates from the part of the privatization of the spa, that you solve the spa systemically, integrally, especially in relation to this medical tourism. This is what we essentially do today when we talk about all the leading types of tourism, we see that for every segment in society you can call it that. If we talk about sports tourism, then we can also talk about recreational tourism. If we're talking about rural tourism, then we're not just going to settle for it, but we're going to say it's rural tourism or so on. Sustainable tourism, the EU calls it that, and even projects that finance from the IPA funds or calls it sustainable, because it combines certain segments of the development of the tourism economy, such as the environment, mountain tourism, rural tourism, and then binds it, unites it. I think Serbia has those potentials. I have also drawn attention to agriculture ministers several times that they should really cooperate very well with you on this sustainable and rural tourism, because many women in the country, farmers, are the only ones dealing with this rural tourism. They are recognized as carriers of this segment and development. It's actually a chance for our people to stay as much in the country as possible, to stop this kind of urbanization that's inevitable in every country, but, well, Serbia has the potential to really leave the village at a certain level of development and move into a healthy modernisation, not the kind that we consider modernising by, say, introducing a certain kind of infrastructure of this type to create a modern village, and then we come into a situation where it connects with the city. I wanted to say that what you said about infrastructure was actually one of the most important factors. What's important is to say, and somewhere it's been mentioned, that, say, Nis since he opened that plane with Malme and Zurich, he's increased that banish tourism somewhere. Why? Because Nis is in a position between three large spas – Niška Banja, Ribarska Banja, Sokobanja and therefore those who are users of such traffic services, small airports such as Nis, really have the possibility and Nis has the possibility at all to extend the range of offers to these destinations to which it is connected. Foreign direct investment in the tourism sector, I think, will be recognized the moment we finish privatisation, because it is obvious that the current firms that are bankrupt are located in the large banks of Serbia and are not yet privatised in the way that this should end. So either parts are sold in terms of the bankruptcy mass of these objects. Still no big company come to buy. It's true that there are interested. It is true that there are letters and you know it very well from the Ministry of Economy, but it is also true that companies that are recognized somewhere by, say, spa-tourism, or recreational tourism, or medical tourism, the moment they appear here on the market, we can only talk about foreign direct investment. So large objects require huge millions of investment and that so far it is likely that one of our domestic investors would invest in it and in a certain way enter into it. Since the crisis, no one has ever focused on investing large amounts of money in tourism, it would always rather move towards production. When you look at the statistics from 2012, to this day, you will see based on this statistics that is essentially very much done in the tourism sector and that this ministry that you run really has good results. First of all, it should be said that the government of Serbia and Mr. Vukic led an obvious foreign policy that opened up opportunities to increase the number of foreign tourists, because that is what the number of overnight stays is saying. If you look at 2012, when the increase in tourism was only 1%, where the domestics were falling, and 61% were domestic, 39% of foreign guests were on the Serbian market, when we speak from the tourism aspect, then in 2014 you have a completely different picture. You have a different structure. You have 12.5% growth, you have a 1% drop in domestic tourism, but that's why you have a foreign 13% increase. That's why the structure has completely changed. You have 46% foreign guests and 54% domestic. At that moment, the government reacted very quickly, given that it did not wait for this year to pass, but when it saw these results in 2014, there was this political will that you went out with and together as a ministry and prime minister and designed a model to stimulate the way of the voucher, that simply such a fall, if there were, that it would stop and move somewhere further along progress. What's interesting is that if you look at Belgrade, for example, as a "siti break" destination, it is located everywhere in the world and the EU. Among young people, this is how I tell you, 1% brand, like the Exit, like Guca, but when you look at the increase in number compared to 2013, 2014, the increase in the number of guests in Belgrade, it is now 13% higher, and since 2012, if you compare Novi Sad, which was down 1%, is now on the rise of 16. When we talk about Banja Lukas, the growth that was in 2012 to 10%, is already going to 14, and when we talk about mountain sites that were growing from 13% somewhere, today 2015, with data from 2014, is growing 21%. This tells you that this range of offers has really grown, that tourism is recognised by the state, as a developmental opportunity in terms of the economic development of the state and despite all the problems you have had and as a government, in terms of the flood of last year's and this variation of what economic growth is, and what is essentially what is called a struggle for survival, somewhere tourism has shown that the private sector is very good at recognising what development opportunities are and somewhere this policy that the Serbian government is really going to promote, in terms of the development of the private sector and the reduction of public consumption, through the development of the private sector, is good. In the end, I would say, as far as this law is concerned, that promotion is very important and it is very important that you have now classified this international component through guidebooks that can today with certain European licences to function on the Serbian market and according to the laws that exist in the Republic of Serbia. It's a good thing you transferred some of the jurisdiction essentially to local self-government. This is a transfer of competence to tourist inspectors, where local self-government also has the opportunity to receive these residence fees. In the end, they can do so if they are caught, or are in a position to determine that there has been a violation in terms of the gray economy and that certain tourist facilities are issued without being reported and that the state simply did not charge the tax. It is important to say that, through this co-operation of local self-government, the Republic can only profit. How? When you lower those powers and what was a dilemma on the board, and I see with other MPs, there will be no new employment. Transferring jurisdiction implies that local self-government itself organises who will do that part of the job. What does that mean? This means that local self-government will find a way to do it better in municipalities and cities where local tourism is developed, rather than in local areas where there is no priority on this type of tourism, but in another. So I think it's a good thing you gave local self-government the opportunity to organize their own inspectors to do the job. This job will only bring good to the state and encourage some kind of competition and stimulate others to do this job, especially when we talk about rural tourism. There you have opened up a great opportunity for individuals to work together in this business in an adequate way, and to be re-enlisted and not have great costs. What is important to say, and as far as this law is concerned, it is also that the agreement, which is on the agenda, regarding Macedonia, has proved to be very important and we are right to ratify it here today, i.e. we have this proposal for a co-operation agreement with the Government, because it is obvious that the need to extend, that it has proved to be good, but also this amendment that we agree on the status of the World Tourism Organisation has shown that we are in a group with one Netherlands and one Spain. If we know that a Barcelona earns 100 billion euros a year only because of the tourism it has developed and that it is one part of Spain that competes in that tourist offer with the capital of Spain, then we look to the best. Therefore, regardless of the amendments to the Secretary-General's election, the way the countries that are members of the World Tourism Organisation are elected and that the budget should be expressed in euro, regardless of which it should be said that this is a great recognition for work. In the end, I would say that, in addition to this law and this area in tourism, we have a bill to confirm the agreement on economic co-operation between Serbia and Macedonia. What you said is very significant, which is that we and Macedonia have such strong relations, that we are the fourth country for them, and they are for us the seventh country for the importance of economic exchange. It is strategically important that Macedonia and I have good relations, especially in this economic co-operation, because this brings benefits to them and to us. When we talk about the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA and the Republic of Serbia, it should be said that the EFTA covers countries that are truly of great importance, especially when we speak in this economic sense and when you talk about banking, but also when you adopt principles relating to the protection of the environment and those relating to protection at work, this means that we, indeed as a state, become a serious, leading country in the region with which all the major countries that create world policy talk today. When I spoke about how important it was to have a very good foreign policy, especially for tourism, it was then that this synergy produced good results. In voting day, we will surely support, as SNS, this bill, because we think that, after all, you have the support of the prime minister for all of this. Mr. Vukic has indeed shown that in the best possible way certain branches of the economy can, with the help of both political will and good political communication with other countries in the region and in the world, you can really have great benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35529	Thank you. Since authorised representatives have used their rights, we are now moving to the list of MPs according to the attached list. The first is MP Petar Petrovic and then Janko Veselinovic. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35530	The Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, immediately at the beginning, I would like to repeat what the authorised representative of the JS parliamentary group Mr Kosanic said, which is that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support, not only amendments and additions to the Tourism Act, but also all these protocols, i.e. proposals for a law confirming the agreement on international co-operation of the Serbian state with the countries with which these agreements are signed. What I want to say, at the beginning, in front of the JS parliamentary group, at the same time, to commend the ministry, that it finally came out with a proposal to amend and supplement the Tourism Act. I think it was the last time, the last moment, to start with changes and to propose changes, I hope for a short time to adopt these amendments and supplement this Law, because the reverse of what was happening in Serbia with certain tourist organisations, which organized the holiday of many citizens out of the country, was better said, so they also caused some difficulties, not to say the crimes that took place, when it comes to these organisations. But what I want, in front of JS, to commend at the beginning, is that the ministry recognized that it had to lead tourism organisations to come to professional people, people who have some work results behind them and who know what it means to do tourism, to be at the head of a tourist organisation, both at the local and regional centres, and also at the regional and republican authorities. I would also like to praise that you have recognised that it must simply be put into order, among those organisations that want to deal with tourism, i.e. the organisation of tourism, and that they must have secured funds in case there are any misunderstandings about contracting or non-compliance with contractual obligations towards the users of tourist services, because so far, I said at the beginning and Vladan said, there were many problems with individual ad hoc organisations, so to speak, tourist organisations, who wanted to make quick and easy money, and in fact did not care that many citizens who went to a certain destination for whom they had paid, and when they came there they faced many problems. Only one who's experienced it knows what kind of trouble he's had. So once again, on behalf of the JS, I commend the ministry for recognising this and for having the strength to amend this law a little bit sharper, to say a stricter order in organising future tourist trips, by those organisations that want to do this work. Also, as stated in the law itself, those offers must be made precisely in Serbian or certified, if they are in foreign language, that whoever wants to use some services of a tourist organisation, in some destination outside the Serbian state, knows what is being offered and can get into trouble if such problems arise. What I would not repeat is the data that certain colleagues and colleagues pointed out in percentages of increases, reductions in the number of users etc. It's already in statistical data. We from the JS will deal, and I as a representative of this parliamentary group, to suggest something to you for further work, when it comes to further development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia, or in the state of Serbia. I would especially stress that in the future, but I am not going to say that so far, and I would like to commend the ministry that it has contributed greatly to all the local self-governments who wanted to develop tourism in their territories and I hope that it will be in the future. This is exactly what JS suggests, to allow smaller local self-governments who want to offer something in their territory, a tourist destination, and do not have enough funds from their local sources, to allow them through certain help that this local self-government can develop tourism in its territory. Someone will resent me, but I have to point out the example of the city where I come from, that's an example of Jagodina, where JS is the holder of government in local self-government for 12 years. What we have done is best known by citizens of Serbia who are coming to visit some tourist destinations in the city and the surrounding area. This is proof that Jagodina, which 10-15 years ago was not a tourist resort on Serbia's tourist map, is today one of the inevitable destinations of those who want to see something in Serbia and spend about half a million tourists per year through our city, who leave some dinar, some euro in the city, thus allowing for the development of both catering and trade, etc. I have to say that by developing tourism in some local self-government, we allow for development and hoteling, development and trade, for construction operations to be employed, because some buildings, some buildings, etc. who will serve as a vacation for those people who want to visit those smaller environments. I would also ask, conditionally and all those small environments that at this point do not recognise what tourism means to develop in its midst, that they should go back to history and look at some places that have some historical significance in Serbia's territory. I would use only one place to mention this occasion, because I almost went through the situation and I saw that the house where the leader of the first Serbian uprising of Karadjordje was born, this village of Visevac, is in such a poor state. I'd say she's in another state in the West, we'd see what she'd look like. So we sometimes forget some things, some places, some objects where the celebrities of this country were born, how can I say they hit the foundations of today's modern state of Serbia. It's some of my contribution, a cry or a request for all these local environments, to pay a little more attention to those small places that mean a lot to some people from abroad who want to go around. They don't care if they visit Haiti or I don't know, some other world tourist destinations, but they want to see these rural areas where some people once lived or were born who left a mark in the history of the Serbian state. As far as JS is concerned, be assured that we will give you Mr. Ministers full support if, in that regard, you give support to those local environments. On the other hand, allowing the development of tourism in local areas creates an opportunity to create new jobs, to keep people in those smaller places, to stay where they were born, where they were educated, where they returned after school. So that several cities in Serbia don't develop and expand, and that Serbia is empty and simply that in some territories literally in a year or ten years we won't have a population. Through the development of Banjska tourism, rural tourism where Serbia needs to be potential can make huge money and develop many branches alongside tourism that will relate to the development of tourism as some development road for Serbia over a further period of time. It is not all about going to sea, spending money simply on some destinations outside Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35531	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35532	This money can be spent in spas, through the development of rural tourism, etc. And in that way, what he says is that we have that saying -- we leave our own money in our own country.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35533	Time, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35534	As far as JS is concerned, here I am finishing up, we are giving the ministry full support and the JS will give you full support in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35535	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35536	I can say on behalf of the PRECRET Movement that we will support the proposed agreements that have been made in the framework of today's agenda - a bill on the approval of amendments to the status of the World Tourism Organisation, a bill on the validation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Macedonia and Serbia on tourism, a proposal for an agreement relating to economic co-operation and a proposal for a law on the validation of the Amending Protocol and the addition of the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia. There's nothing disputed about that. I could say that even when it comes to amendments and additions to the Tourism Act, there are not many controversial points. And if any of the amendments that I have submitted on behalf of the PRECRET Movement are accepted, I can also say that for this law, we will vote for this law. Therefore, it is not a questionable essence of normatively these amendments and the addition of the Law to tourism. Mr. Ljajic, the issue is in our tourism. It is a dispute that unfortunately tourism is not one of the economic branches on which Serbia would base its development. This is what the majority showed when we discussed the Rural Development Act and when we discussed this Tourism Act earlier. There is no incentive, there is no possibility that someone who deals with tourism can do it in a sustainable way. You've done a lot more detail here on the position of the natural persons involved in tourism, past the registration of entrepreneurship or past the registration of a company, and that's quite all right. So, a man who does some other work and has a house in the country, has a house by a stream, rents that house to guests, and that's his extra income or does it in a similar way in the city. It's okay. However, I ask the question, what have we done for tourism in other areas? What about building infrastructure? What about environmentals? Can a tourist who comes to Serbia and sees dumps near tourist resorts say it's a welcome country? Go to Novi Sad - two big dumps. Head for the Kopalnik - full streams of garbage. Go to the other end of Serbia, whatever you want. Head for Novi Pazar, Mr. Ljajic, and see what we welcome tourists. It's nice that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, otherwise one of the most inefficient governments in the world, today you get an epithet and one of the governments in the global competitiveness index among the last in the world, is behind us only in the region of Bosnia and Herzegovina and there are countries like Guinea, etc. So we're at the bottom of that list. So, what have you done, Mr. Ljajic, to increase the competitiveness of tourism? What have you done to the action - Let's fly to Serbia has full meaning? I ask you, Mr Ljajic, what will a host in Serbia put on someone who came from Belgrade, from Novi Sad or from Nis to fly to Serbia, fly to Kopalnik or Zlatibor? He'll put on tomatoes from Greece, a watermelon from Turkey and onions from China. Ask downstairs, Mr. Ljajic, when we have a break, what do people at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia serve?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35537	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35538	Onion from China, tomatoes from Greece, watermelon from Turkey, meat from Argentina. Mr. Ljajic, there is no such development of tourism that would be sustainable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35539	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35540	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I sincerely hoped that we would finally begin to stick to what is the point of the agenda. So at one point I was convinced that this would happen today, but the previous speaker reassured me and discouraged me in that sense by mentioning again some of the government's efficiency and comparison with some countries and who knows what he was talking about. I believe that the previous speaker is very effective in some activities, in some disciplines, but I don't want to talk about it right now, and then the question of environmentality and dumps has been raised, and I don't know what's been said here. I don't know who was preventing that during the period when the previous speaker was in power to clean up those dumps. Is that something new, any of this period?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35541	Mr. Markovic, please don't replicate. Go to...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35542	I'm talking about what's on the agenda. The previous speaker forgot or failed to say that according to the data of the Republic Statistics Institute, there is a clear increase, i.e. the increase of nights and the number of tourists compared to some earlier periods, so we can also see this in a table view – how much growth it is. In Belgrade there was 13% for 2014, and in 2012 there was 8%, so in Novi Sad there was also great growth, and in all other Banja towns, mountain sites, etc. But it's something he missed to point out. Today, there is a very important law on the agenda, or series of important points. Among other things, I will try to look only at the most important topics so as not to waste my time and not to repeat everything that has been said by my previous colleagues. First of all, I would like to point out that these amendments and additions to the law eliminate all the shortcomings and problems we have faced so far in this area, and I think that we can characterise that, by adopting this law, there is finally order in this area, in the area of tourism, promotion of tourism itself, of tourist agencies and in general provision of services in this area, or in tourism. This is what is good and that is what will directly improve and improve the overall environment in Serbia's tourism economy, as well as the conditions for further development of tourism in Serbia, and which will then affect the overall economic picture of our country. When it comes to combating the gray economy, I support the precision of the proposed legal provisions that regulate the conduct of tourist inspectors in relation to the so-called so-called. illegal work in tourist and catering activities. I think by extending the authority, or by giving greater authority to the tourist inspection, that it will thus increase the level of control of the work of these agencies. I primarily think about tourist agencies, and this will also reduce opportunities for abuses in this area. In local self-government, i.e. authorised inspection bodies of local self-government, a certain part of the supervision of the application of this law is entrusted, all in order to combat the grey economy more effectively. I find it appropriate to highlight and introduce some new terms, some new concepts, such as the destination management of organisations, the company's destination management and what is most important clusters, which I think is the introduction of a more modern form of business and the organisation of entities in tourism. It is very important to stress that these proposed solutions are encouraged by agencies that bring foreign tourists, therefore, to increase the number and attract foreign tourists, and I don't think I need to specifically mention how much and what benefits we will be able to achieve in this way. With full compliance with EU legislation, as well as with the following directives, which is certainly the main objective of this bill, I would also like to highlight the increased protection of tourism users, the reduction of the grey economy in the activities that this law regulates, the development of the tourism economy in Serbia, the strengthening of competitiveness and the raising of the quality of services and the final increase of the budget revenues from tourism, as the main objectives that are being encouraged by this law. For all these reasons, I suggest we adopt these proposed solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35543	Thank you. Alexandra Jerkov is not here. The word has a People's MP Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35544	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with representatives of the ministry, fellow MPs and MPs, today we are considering one of the most important sets of laws. When I say more important, I mean that it defines the strategic definition of our country to develop tourism as one of the foundations of economic and overall development, and that of a dynamic, competitive, continuous and coherent way, based on sustainability and cost-effectiveness principles. Because the fact is that tourism is actually an inevitable complex with untapped growing potentials. That is why we will also look very closely at this proposal for a law on amendments to the Tourism Act. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to achieve by implementing this law is to increase the competitiveness of Serbian tourism, is to increase the foreign inflow of domestic tourism, then increase the number of persons employed in the field of tourism, all in order to transform the Republic of Serbia into a competitive tourist destination. However, in order for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to achieve all these positive effects by applying this law, it is necessary to develop a positive image on the world tourism market, it is necessary to ensure the protection and sustainable use of nature and cultural heritage as a resource for the development of tourism, it is necessary to improve the quality of life and quality of life of our country's inhabitants and, of course, to protect tourism consumers. Because Serbian tourism products, unfortunately, have not been adequately valorised so far because tourism has never been a serious topic of Serbia's development policy. With this law, we all expect it to change. Unfortunately, market closure delayed the process of restructuring and privatisation, causing no more serious and significant investment from either country or abroad, causing some new forms of tourist offer to develop. Investments in the area of infrastructure are also missing. One reason is that local communities were not financially able to provide protection and maintenance of the use of all inherited tourist destinations. Because of this, Serbian tourism products have not developed and have not been commercialised so far on the world market. All this is a reason for the Republic of Serbia to actually make, when it comes to the development of tourism, a basis for strategic advantages. As far as our country is concerned, the strategic advantages are: human potential, then the geostrategic position of the Republic of Serbia, which gives it a central location in all EU traffic flows, there are also natural resources in terms of groundwater and underground waters, preserving the resources of mountains, forests, rural areas, rich archaeological and architectural heritage, with an emphasis on monasteries and historic cities as valuable cultural and historical heritage, as well as spiritual creation and propensity for manifestations and numerous festivals. Because the purpose of today's competitive fight in tourism is actually to act on attractiveness, on productivity, on marketing and on the management of tourist destinations. With this proposed law, in fact, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is moving towards a rapid solution to the problems encountered so far in tourism and inaccuracy that have led to the devaluation and inability to develop tourism and economic activities that are actually involved in meeting the needs of both domestic and foreign tourism consumers. The new bill provides a range of solutions: full compliance with EU legislation and the Directive on organised travel, vacation and circular travel, as well as with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, thus ensuring greater protection of users of tourist services. As a priority for this proposal, the law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act is to reduce the grey economy, the economy in all activities. The introduction of conditions for staffing in tourist organisations will result in higher quality of work, primarily in promoting and planning the development of tourism, as well as more efficient implementation of planned projects. Also, conditions are being created for the full modern management of the tourist destination, the introduction of tourist clusters, destination management organisations and destination management of companies, as a new form of association of common needs, interest and strengthening competitiveness by introducing a system of incentives and financial support for tourism development projects, whose conditions and method of use will be closer prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to certain rules. Also, there is a obligation to register intermediaries in the sale of tourist trips to the tourism register. The conditions are also prescribed that trade union organisations, pensioners associations, student and mountaineering organisations, as well as social and children's protection institutions should meet in order to prevent the abuses observed in this area. The area of tourism professions is also being arranged by restoring the obligation to pass expert exams for tourist guides, local tourist guides and tourists to the candidates themselves, which will lead to a greater inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget. Also, in order to combat the grey economy, the redistribution of the rights, obligations and powers of inspection services has been exercised, by transferring the part of jurisdiction to the authorised inspection bodies of local self-government. Since the tourist inspection lacks sufficient capacity and there are about 100 inspectors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, this will allow for increased control of the collection and payment of the original revenues of local self-government units, referring to residence fees and penals. Also, this bill is prescribed in the part of the criminal provisions to introduce an infringement order, which is expected to more effectively implement the collection of prescribed penalties, and the effects will also reflect on the very budget of the Republic of Serbia. I will also note, within the framework of this set of laws and the importance of the bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Macedonia, which improves the relationship between these two countries, but not only in the area of tourism, but in total bilateral relations. An institutional framework has been established to improve the promotion of the Republic of Serbia's tourism packages on the Republic of Macedonia's market and vice versa, which also promotes co-operation in the area of the economy. For all these reasons, and with faith in the trend of growth and development, not only tourism, but all related economic activities, the SPS parliamentary group will support this set of laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35545	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35546	Thank you. My contribution to the debate on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act and to the verification of claims made by the minister, explaining why it is necessary, concerns one decision in which the minister participated, Decisions on making changes and additions to the Space Plan of the area of special purpose of the Kopalnik National Park. Changed and updated, that decision comes into force tomorrow. The decision envisions approximately what the minister is saying in favour of changing the law that is being discussed at today's session. Namely, what's this about? The government has decided to join the development of changes and additions to the spatial plan of the area of special purpose of the Kopalnik National Park, on the territory covered by the municipalities of Brus, Raška and Leposavic. One of the points of this decision says, point 5: "The vision of making changes and supplementing the Space Plan represents the creation of a plan base for the development of a tourist centre adapted to the modern demands of tourism demand. “ Basically, for the accession to make changes and additions to the Spatial Plan of the area of special purpose is spoken in large parts of the same dictionary and reasoning that arises in the explanation, as well as in the resolutions of this law. What is interesting is that the initiation of these changes and additions in item 6 in the last position is said: "The changes and additions of the Space Plan will contribute to the expansion of the tourist offer of the Kopalnik and to the significant improvement of the availability of this tourist center of national and regional importance". Since we know what part of the Bath is at stake, this decision that has been taken and taken into force tomorrow assumes an obvious development. What is interesting is that the decision taken in April, paragraph 10, states that the funds for the development of these changes and the addition of the Space Plan are provided by the Ministry of Construction. On September 24th, however, the government held a session in which it was decided to amend point 10. Decisions and now it reads: "The funds for making changes and supplementing the Space Plan provide "Hepako doo" Belgrade-Vračar, and the indicative estimate of financial resources is six million dinars." So, in a decision that comes into force tomorrow, a private company, which has data in the APR, which was founded on 20 May 2014, whose activity is in real estate management for compensation, and legal representative Matar Suhail Ali Alyabhouni Al Dhaheri of the United Arab Emirates, the capital of 100 dinars, is all legitimate, it will give funds for making changes and supplementing the Space Plan. Not doubting any good intentions at all, although being attached to the ethics of responsibility rather than to the ethics of good intentions and implying that the justification for such a decision is in the decision to approach the change in the Spatial Plan of the area of special purpose of the Kopalnik National Park, remains necessary to answer why the government decided to amend its decision in April and on which basis one private firm pays six million to draw up the plan? I have no doubt that the plan will be in public debate, that it must be consistent with those parameters that describe the Kopalnik as a national park, but what's a little confusing is that this is how tourism develops. I am absolutely sure that neither the Minister nor I would like to see the way it will be changed, to be complemented by the spatial plan of the area of special purpose means eliminating the properties of the Kopalnik National Park, it would be a common damage and a completely unreasonable thing. That is why I would like to take this law and take a closer look at the decision that takes effect tomorrow, which concerns one of our most attractive territorial areas, and however you want tourist areas, i.e. Kopalnik National Park. A small accident with national parks is that these are places where you have to measure exactly how to not destroy economic development in any way what you have been given in nature and what we have protected as reasonable people, either as a naturally protected good or as a special public good, or as a national park, because someone thinks that building objects is good at that part of the Kopalnik National Park, but can't now, since the Space Plan of Specific Purpose forbids it, so maybe when and if they adopt and supplement themselves. Which is all the same legitimate thing to do, except for a decision that's very rare, which is that a private company that was founded a year ago funded the development of that plan. It would be good for the minister to divulge any kind of ambiguity, doubt what it is really about and whether this is another creative way, such as the Lex specialise for "Belgrade on Water", to essentially violate all the laws that are in force, because someone who is in public function thinks that it serves exclusively for private agreements. I am for a public-private partnership, but this public-private partnership isn't, with the hope that I'm missing the data. That is why transparency is good – the more information you give, the more explanations you give to everyone, the less reasons for ambiguity, suspicion and unsettled ideas. I would like tourism to become a priority and to have the Minister within the government choose to talk about tourism as in the network industry every day, because when you put, when it comes to the economy, the accent on tourism, then you put an accent on the construction of infrastructure, then you put an accent on education in tourism, then you put an accent on the needs of amending and supplementing financial laws and what-what. Too little seems to me to talk about tourism, and when it comes to talking, then unfortunately, we have this kind of data as decisions that will come into effect tomorrow. The second topic that I consider as a priority as tourism is to talk about education. These are two topics for which I would like them to be majorityal, detailed and detailed comments, and in order to change the regulations that are covered, but also to change the behaviour that we have towards public and knowledge. For the sake of public good, we have respect for the documents that we have brought in when it comes to protection, and for education to give up, very often, contempt for the knowledge that arises when it comes to talking about knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35547	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Adrian Anastasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35548	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, indeed before I comment on this bill, I must commend the way this document was made. So all relevant factors are included, all the most important factors, tourist workers, tourist agencies, travel organizers, various associations, tourist organisations and indeed the current state of tourism in Serbia has been properly seen. The best solutions have been proposed. We have heard many times from all speakers that tourism is an economic branch that is full of potential, but unfortunately not used enough. I hope this law can change that in its full application in the coming years. A lot to do, a lot to invest, a lot of effort to make our cities, our municipalities, bathrooms, mountains, lakes, truly tourist destinations that are attractive to both domestic and foreign tourists. We see that in the first seven months of 2015, there were indeed more than 13% of tourists in Serbia than in the same period last year, and as measured by the number of nights achieved, the largest number of domestic guests were in mountainous places, as much as 39%, then Banjska places – 34%, while foreign guests, interestingly, spent the most time in Belgrade – over 50%. As I have already noted, after a long and detailed analysis and public debate, with the involvement of all tourist factors, we have come to this bill and I will go not by member, but by areas that are really interesting and important and that I know that all tourist workers in Serbia are really closely following how this law will be adopted and that the amendments will pass. In the opening members, we have already heard, there has been clarification and clarification of certain concepts and introduction of new concepts – destination management, organization, companies, tourist factors, as well as professional organisers of congresses. As far as the representatives of the tourist destination are concerned, they have already existed in some ways, and now it is only legally introduced through the law and it is indeed the best solution and I have no doubt that it was proposed by travel organizers and travel agencies that have accommodation capacities and outside of this country. When we speak from Articles 8 to 12. The bill details the roles of the Serbian tourism organisation, the province's tourist organisation and local self-government units. I had the opportunity to come up with an insight into the document sent by the tourism agencies from southern Serbia, the Association of Tourist agencies, and it was said that they insisted that the directors of tourist organisations be really professional people, and I welcome that now the Director of the Tourist Organization of the Local Self-Government Units will have to possess certain conditions, i.e. to meet certain conditions everywhere in all cities and municipalities, which is also when we talk about working experience, knowledge of foreign language, and all other prescribed conditions of law. What I want as soon as possible, if possible, of course I appeal to the Ministry, that regulation on the categorization of accommodation facilities, it's really very necessary. I think that's why certain municipalities, certain cities can't accept more tourists, they can't maintain some major events, sports events, precisely because the categorization of accommodation facilities isn't done properly and of course it's not done yet even though it's 2015, and we want bigger revenues than tourism. Members who specify the work of tourist agencies in line with European legislation are very important. As we have mentioned, respect for the opinions of tourist agencies is important, because here, we have a case of the Fly Fly Travel Agency, which is today, i.e. Yesterday, declared the best agency in Southeast Serbia when we talk about the area of sale of airline tickets, and that's good for our country that we have really something that tourism will promote in the best way. What several colleagues have mentioned, and I consider one painful point of tourism, and certainly this is one of the best solutions, you have said in compromise, is that in the past functioning of tourist agencies abuses have been observed, when we talk about the realization of tourist trips by various organisations and member of the 17th proposal of the law, trade unions, pensioners associations, fair, November, reconnaissance and mountaineering organisations and institutions, social child protection as well as other organisations and associations can only organise travel for their members. That's very important. Why does it matter? Because these organizations and these associations should have only done the jobs provided for in their statutes so far. So, to work and realize tourist trips only in accordance with their statutes and only for their members. And this has not been done so far, but has already been advertised as legitimate travel tour organizers and what was then the purpose of the existence of tourist agencies that meet the law of certain and prescribed conditions, if we could not regulate this area. This is best regulated and I really welcome it. Also, what I had a question on the Committee on Economic Affairs is about the guarantee of travel for insolvency and I am told as it is now that, as with now, an additional sublegal act, it will be done. I only ask and appeal to consider the needs of tourist agencies, not only bigger but smaller travel organizers, who are not only in Belgrade but also in southern Serbia, for the reason I do not know whether the best solution is insurance per trip, what you have proposed but will be governed by a sublegal act, we will see. Since I am a longtime tourist worker and a licensed tourist guide, I also welcome the area of planning, tourism professions, the introduction of representatives into tourist destinations, the re-returning of the obligation for candidates to bear all the costs. That's very important, because then those who want them can apply, i.e. They can compete, they can pass exams, not just those employed by an organization or an agency or a travel organizer. That's very important. I won't be much longer now, but I have to say a few words when we're talking inspection. It's a good thing I'm putting in a felony warrant. It's a good thing there's been a redistribution of duty, but it's not a good thing that we're always talking about the number of people, so tourist inspectors at the bar, and that's not the problem. Here, in the town of Nis we only have three inspectors in the tourist inspection and it is not a problem in the number of personnel, the problem is in the technical equipment of the staff. So, I think and I think we need to pay attention to the fact that tourist inspectors must be equipped with both computer and simple means of transport. If we are looking for a tourist inspection in the town of Nis, Nisavska County must be visited by some mountain and some spa and some remote village and some other tourist destination that is not in the centre, it must have an adequate means of transport and now I will amaze you when I say that the monthly amount given to a tourist inspector for this means of transport that has 4,000 dinars. How can you expect a tourist inspector to oversee and enforce the law if he has so little money and so little resources to do his duty. So these are some details to pay attention to, and I really think that in that case we will be able to have bigger revenues in tourism and better application of the law, although I say, and again, tourist inspection in Nis is one of the best in Serbia and is really doing a great job. I would like to mention, while we are already at work, it is because of its excellent geographical characteristics, airports and numerous cultural and historical monuments that Nis has become recognizable and the number of tourists has been increased in Nis for many years. We've got accommodation facilities, infrastructure's all about it. What is the problem is sustainability, for example, of projects implemented by cross-border IPA, and we have projects, for example, in the memory of Bubanj Park, which is one of our most famous monuments. The problem of sustainability, so if we do reconstruction of some amphitheaters, some mention of the park, we can't have that sustainability, so we have to introduce some security services and similar things for which the city or local self-government really doesn't have the resources, because we know what the situation in southern Serbia is, we know what the situation in the town of Nis is. I therefore appeal to the ministry that, with the help of tourism organisations, local self-government, the province and the Serbian Tourist Organisation, a little more import of tourist destinations, a little better view of these cities, municipalities, and some tourist centres that can benefit much more in tourism than they are doing now. If they do, I believe we'll have success in applying this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35549	The word has been made by the MP, Jovana Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35550	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, guests and guests from the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Tourism Act itself does not have any epochal changes, those changes that have been made mainly relate to tourist agencies, organisations and inspections in this area. The DS Parliament Club will support this law, and in the middle of the discussion I would refer to a few controversial things in this law. You mentioned yourself in your discussion by the minister that there were some disagreements between representatives of tourist agencies on the one hand and representatives of trade union organisations, pensioners associations, November and other organisations on the other. In this regard, I will talk about Article 17 relating to Article 46. The tourism law that provides for trade union organisations, associations of pensioners, ferian, student, reconnaissance, mountaineering organisations, institutions within social protection and other associations and organisations to organise a tourist trip or excursion but without obtaining profits. You said in your own explanation that the abuses in this area were previously observed and that the aim of amending this law was to remove these irregularities, to remove those abuses. You mentioned yourself a reduction in your work in the gray zone. I think you've got a good start, with a good intention of working on changes and additions to this law, and you've tried to define that the work, or the organisation of these trips, of these tours, these organizations aren't meant to earn profits, but I don't think that's well worked out enough, and I'll explain how. The first thing where there would be less abuse and where the provision of services could be more transparent is to set a date until which it is necessary to bring an annual travel plan, and the only thing it says here is that these organisations and associations, a tourist inspection within seven days of the adoption day, must submit a plan and change within five days. The other thing is that, also speaking of this article, it does not say that these organisations must also indicate the prices of individual services, i.e. only the total price of services covered by the offer and fees that are not included in the price, and you know, profits can be very easy to hide, if they do not stand to document individual prices of services, then only the sum, very easily some money can be hidden there and to drag something through. Sometimes some organisations and associations covered by this article do not pay VAT, i.e. the state is denied VAT income and thus some protections and standards of students, pensioners and workers who are particularly recently violated by this Law on Salary Reduction and Pensions, yet there remains an open space for abuses and that the cobayages are all without profit, and then by obtaining profit, the users of these services themselves when they are damaged, and thus also by state. What they have asked me from some tourist agencies and what is unclear to them is that the proposal to amend and supplement this law has not defined exactly what the travel certificate is, i.e. that the travel certificate must contain information on the guarantee of travel with the data needed to activate it, as well as data for a person who has been authorized to receive advertising during the duration of the tourist trip, so people holding tourist agencies, is interested in whether it is just a receipt for the collected money, since they already bring general travel conditions or general travel conditions should be contained in this confirmation of travel, which is a double job that is complicated for them. Also a month and a half ago when the problem with some tourist agencies came up, you said that you would sharpen the numbers, the sums, the deposits that agencies provide, or lay for their insolvency and also stands in that exhibition and you said that the number of agencies should be reduced, that the number of agencies is around 750, that not every street in Serbia should have its own tourist agency and that it is necessary to reduce their number, in order to allow the best to stay on the market. On the other hand, we have a law that suggests another ministry and is in the works and it is the Ministry of Education and says that every school will be able to register its tourist agency, so when we see how many schools we have in Serbia, then there is no reduction in the number of tourist agencies. Finally, what I think is most important is that this law is very little or not touched at all, child tourism, which is very different from all types of travel, and I would just like to remind myself that schools are still obliged to discuss public procurement in the selection of a tourist agency, through which students will go on trips, or on trips, because schools are not exempt from those obligations prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. Since the money paid by parents is treated as budget money. What happens in practice is that one part of the school does public procurement, and the other part of the school avoids, and then parents send children on tours, by paying directly for these trips and excursions to tourist agencies. What's worrying is that the Minister of Education has no information on it, I know you're not the Minister of Education, how many schools have made public procurement. What the owners of tourist agencies are complaining about is the whole process and school directors, from the preparation of tendering, complaints, parental consent, and after all it takes a minimum of two months, and for all that time the travel agency keeps the arrangement reserved and if it happens that after those two months we do not have the consent of two-thirds of the parents in a school to let the children go on that trip, to agree with that arrangement, then we are causing problems and not only tourist agencies, but also the whole budget of the Republic of Serbia, because these agencies are paying some taxes. It's also a problem, 45 days of payment, because they've been parents before, and that's the problem with parents, and that's why fewer kids are going on tours because their parents could have sent their kids on tours and outings before, paying for all of that up to 10 months of war, and now that's a lot of short notice, and that's why I've got 70 percent of the student travels in these two years, and most of them are suffering agencies and hoteliers, they're suffering the entire economy. Once again for the information I have, the budget damage is 1.4 billion dinars for all this time. What's most important and what's scariest, the students themselves suffer. Some time ago, a letter was sent to the schools from the competent institutions to be patient until September 15, because then there should be some solution, so I would ask you for an end, did you finally agree with the finance minister and the minister of education, given that tourist agencies failed in the autumn season, that schools didn't send students on tours and excursions because of that recommendation and just to ask if you had done anything 16 days after the end of this deadline? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35551	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35552	As for trade union organisations, mountaineering, reconnaissance associations, fairy associations, we had two diametrically different approaches, I would also say the interest on one side of the tourist agency to completely abolish this right, to organise travel, considering unfair competition. We've come to a medium solution, come to a compromise, and I believe this solution is satisfactory for now. In practice in two or three years, we are likely to be forced to change this solution once the EU directive is adopted. For the time being, it has only been adopted at European Commission level, and now it is in the ratification procedure in the Member States that this right of these associations is completely abolished. When this directive comes into force, we, as a candidate country in the EU negotiation and accession process, are likely to have to integrate this directive into both our legal system and a legal solution which, unfortunately or fortunately, will have to apply that directive. It is likely that the agencies will be satisfied, but I am not sure that they will be satisfied with the associations that have organised these trips so far. As far as the travel certificate is concerned, it will not contain general travel conditions, but only the part of the guarantee provided by the agency and the way the guarantee is activated and thirdly, will contain information on names, i.e. the contact of the person who will be on the tourist destination and who will receive all the advertising during the tourist trip, in order to protect tourists, passengers, given the bad experience, if you will, which we have had this year with individual travel agencies. As for schools and field trips, you yourself said that this was a problem that lasted several years ago and is actually a problem, strict application of the Law on Public Procurement, then schools were met, more specifically parents in which to apply the law and not threaten the departure of children on trips again, so parents concluded contracts with agencies. There's been a demand for a gap in the law that on the one hand, you honor all the legal solutions without jeopardizing going on a field trip on the other. The problem is that together with YUTA and the Ministry of Education, we have come to such a solution that through licensing the agencies will be able to organise excursions. The Minister of Education will pass a rule on this with a clear procedure, and the final solution to this problem will be in the law that the Ministry of Education will bring. Now we have one solution that solves the problem. We have had a real blockade and it is true that a large number of tours have been cancelled, that tourist agencies have suffered great damage because of it, but the problem has been solved with this regulation and with the consent of the Ministry of Education and JUST in terms of seeking a solution to the exit from this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35553	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Jolovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35554	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, a modern economy whose imperative is to constantly achieve economic growth, rests on developing and finding new ideas and technological achievements for all economic activities, which allow for raising the level and quality of supply and satisfactory demand that defines the market, and within the legal system and in accordance with the law of each country. Recognizing the potential of tourism services as business activities which in previous times did not have a receptor character in Serbia, given that destinations in the former republics of SFRY had a consciously certain attractive importance, Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic presented the idea of using annual holidays in his country by combining the development of tourism and thus the development of Serbia as well as the provision of holidays for citizens with lower monthly incomes, and specifically by adopting a regulation on conditions and how to allocate and use funds to encourage the development of domestic tourism, and by using a tourist offer in the Republic of Serbia in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This regulation was successfully implemented by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and will obviously have significance in the coming calendar years. The following is said, and in order to create more optimal conditions for the development of this business branch, the Government has submitted to the National Assembly this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, and appreciateing the need to address the problems that have arisen by applying the existing law in legal traffic. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the current law, with the exception of the provisional harmonisation, provides for the harmonisation of the law with the directive relating to organised travel, vacation and circular travel and the Services Directive, and will fully result in transposition of these Directives into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, and also compliance with the provisions of other regulations, in particular with the Consumer Protection Act with the precise definition of provisions providing for greater protection of users of tourist services. In addition to those benefits which are reflected in the achievement of compatibility with European legislation, and in line with new laws that represent the necessary steps towards setting up a modern and EU legal framework, the objectives of adopting this law are to reduce the grey economy in all the activities governed by the law and the establishment of such a legal framework which provides full support for the successful and efficient management of tourism development. Addressing the problem of non-professional staff in the tourist organisations and, above all, at local level, in such a way as to prescribe obligations regarding professional training and work experience for the director of the tourism organisation, which will take effect on 1 January 2017, due to the necessary adaptation. The management of opportunities and the promotion of tourism traffic realised in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with which the state can influence the improvement of tourism transport and foreign exchange effects from tourism. Warning of possible abuses in the realisation of tourist travel by trade union organisations, associations of pensioners, student, reconnaissance and mountaineering organisations and social and children's protection institutions as well as other associations and organisations that can organise a tourist trip or excursion under the conditions of certain laws without the purpose of obtaining benefits and by precise regulation of the conditions under which such travel can be organised. The full regulation of the field of tourism profession, tourist guides, local tourist guides and tourist escorts as well as the way and conditions of providing services, particularly Rent-a-car and Limo service, by empowering local self-government, or authorised inspection bodies of local self-government, so that they can carry out a certain part of the supervision of the application of the law, thus decentralised the inspection system and also allowing the interested subject to the control of the activity it represents and part of the income of local self-government. From the point of view of the users of the tourist service, it is certainly the crucial goal of obtaining quality service at cheaper prices, insurance from possible abuses by tourist organisations, obtaining complete and mandatory information on each type of service offered and on the rights in the use of this type of service, and in particular with the right to advertise the size of the font applied in contracts, which will say that there are no more small letters that were the basis of manipulation, which is said to be the fault of the one who did not read it, and all in accordance with the said EU directives, which become an integral part of our legal system. Since I come from Novi Pazar, a city that represents the medieval capital of Serbia called Ras, founded by the imperial line of Germany and the city, which in 1461 at the mouth of two rivers in the centre of the New Pazar field, raised Gaza Isa Beg Isaković and respecting the rules of architecture that represents the pearl of Christian and Islamic culture, and since we are talking about tourism, I invite you to come to Novi Pazar and to visit the new market fortress, Peter's church, which represents the oldest Orthodox object in Serbia, Altun Alem mosque from the 16th century, a monastery of Đurdje's pillars from the 12th century, a monastery of Sopocians representing the world's cultural heritage, the Hamam Turkish Bath, which has raised the founder of the city and the most famous landscapes of our tourism. The adoption of amendments and additions to the Tourism Act fully and systematically regulates the area of tourism, and given how EU regulation, the regulatory countries in the environment, and the degree of development and specificity of the tourism market in the Republic of Serbia, and the creation of conditions for the faster development of tourism, we get the effects that will have a positive impact on the economic development of many other economic and service activities through which certain economic and social development objectives in general are achieved. Priced also by respecting the fact that the draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act was drawn up after public debates and comments discussed and suggestions from the professional public and interested persons of which some were adopted and entered into the bill, I believe that the solutions offered in the bill will provide optimal conditions for the planning and development of tourism activity in Serbia and thus contribute to the country's economic progress. Appreciateing everything said, in voting day, the SNS will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35555	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nevenka Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35556	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following our work today, we will certainly agree that tourism and agriculture are a great developmental opportunity for Serbia's development, but I would also say of the municipality of Ivanjic from which I come. These are exactly the areas on the agenda of the National Assembly. The aim of these amendments and the addition of the Law is to regulate the area of tourism in a better way. I will look first and foremost at the Tourism Act in my presentation, and of course I will support all five amendments and additions to the laws we are considering today. These changes and additions of tourism laws were based on a comprehensive analysis, based on the observed problems of the tourism cloud. As we have already heard, the public debate has been very comprehensively carried out for all actors and all interested subjects have had a great opportunity to say, to make their views, their comments and suggestions. We have also heard from the Honorable Minister and from fellow Members of Parliament a lot of arguments in favour of amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. I'm only gonna look back on some of this one. I think we agreed that the priority of amending the tourism law is just to curb the gray economy. We know that too much demand would be to eliminate the gray economy, because simply, it's impossible in these conditions. But when we say the gray economy and the illegal business, the immediate association is of course to inspections and inspection services, and in these amendments of the law many responsibilities are being transferred to local self-government and tourist inspection at the level of local self-government. What is seen is this disproportionateness between the capacity of tourist inspections, their number on the one hand, and on the other hand, all the scale of work and the problem of work. We have already heard that a total of only 100 inspectors who should be at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia doing this extremely delicate job, that even such tourist centres as Zlatibor, such as Kopalnik, do not have any systematic place for a tourist inspector. I ask you once again, I appeal, and I hope that the Ministry of Tourism will really manage to solve this, because it is extremely important. What I want to draw attention to, and what we talked about most when we were here in the National Assembly passing the Inspection Act, that is, the priority role and the preventive role of inspection. This preventive role of inspection is, above all, expressed in the pre-season. The aim of this preventive role is to reduce abuse in this area and certainly, which is the primary objective, to increase the safety of all passengers. What the amendments to this law bring, that is, the harmonisation of both terminology and new concepts, all with the aim of bringing this law into line, above all, with the Consumer Protection Act. Our staff in tourist organizations has also been observed to be inextricable. Therefore, the amendments and additions to this law bring changes, first of all, when it comes to managing places at the local level. As we've heard, I have to repeat myself, but I think it's very important that the directors of tourist organisations will know exactly what they need to own to be able to come to such a serious place, because really, if the first job were to be a director, I think it's really unserious. Here in this law we're going to have precisely that's seven years of work experience, five years in management. But not only that, of course, is it very important and active knowledge of foreign language and it is very important to have a high school, and it is known from which areas, from the field of socio-humanitarian sciences. There's still a lot of abuse, not to repeat myself. The minister also spoke, and we all here when we organize trips by the association, organizations. What is good to fully define tourism professions, such as a tourist guide, a local tourist guide, such as a travel companion, and the paper is that this bill introduces a newspaper that we also have on tourist destinations representatives. All in all, I am sure that the amendments to this law will only bring about a improvement, that all the provisions are good, that they will bring a bigger tourist offer and traffic, and everything will affect the development of the economy. In short, in the end, I have a great commitment and a desire to say that the municipality of Ivanica has really great potential in the field of tourism, that Ivanica is an air spa, there is a lot of capacity, that there is a mountain of Golia, a biosphere reserve, an under-tapped mountain of Javor and Mučanj, great potential in rural tourism, but also in educational tourism lately. What pleases all of us in Ivanjica, and hopefully wider than Ivanjica, is that the final hotel that was in the blockade has been working again for seven months, has been leased for three years for entrepreneurs from Sweden. But what is a special brand of Ivanjica, besides the famous foreign potatoes and raspberries, is that today is also the event "Nusiciyad". I thank the Ministry of Tourism and Trade for recognising our "Nusiciad" and for supporting it. I hope so in the future. This says that every year more visitors are growing and that these numerous qualities and cultural contents deserve to be rewarded multiple times. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I invite you to be seen for Ivanjica, because practice has shown that someone who once comes to Ivanjic as a guest leaves as a friend. Make sure of that. Let me conclude, in the voting day, with great pleasure, along with SNS MPs, I will support and I will vote in favour of all the draft laws we are discussing today. I wish you, Ministers with Associates, to succeed further work, and thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35557	Thank you. The word is by MP Mirjana Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35558	The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs, I will say a few words about today's amendments to the Tourism Act, which has emerged as a short-needed need to look at the problems facing actors in the tourism economy. The imperative defined by this bill is the reduction of the grey economy that the law regulates and the authorities of local self-government are entrusted with a significant part of the supervision of the application of this law. This bill introduces the authority of the inspector to have the possibility to issue a criminal order. It is understood that this bill is in line with the provisions of other regulations, above all with the Consumer Protection Act, which provides greater protection for users of tourist services. Article 5 of this law contains the Action Plan and the deadline for which the Strategy is now to be adopted for at least five years. By Article 8 of this proposal, the Serbian Tourist Organisation is also conducting research activities of the international and domestic tourism market. Serbia's tourism organisation participates in the development and implementation of domestic and international projects from tourism and areas that are complementary to tourism. Article 9 The Serbian Tourist Organisation has the obligation to adopt the labour rules, and Article 10 is prescribed in the right way for the Director of the Tourist Organisation of Serbia to appoint and resolve the Government on a proposal from the Ministry and all its powers prescribed by law. Article 12. The bill provides that a tourism organisation that is the main objective of promotion and development of tourism, a unit of local self-government, the coordination of activities between economic operators and the improvement of education programmes and the improvement of the skills of persons employed in tourism, the adoption of annual programmes and promotional plans, the provision of normative-propaganda materials, which promotes the tourist values of a local self-government. Not to mention, it is a wide range of all these responsibilities owned by all these tourist organisations at the level of every local self-government. The proposal for this law in Article 35 regulates the area of tourism professions and prescribes that the tourist guide and travel companion must have a professional examination for the tourist guide in accordance with this law, and certainly, the committee is educated by the competent minister. Costs of laying, now according to this law, bear the face that passes the exam. The local self-government unit's competent authority keeps records of local tourist guides as a trusted job and is obliged to submit the records to the tourism register no later than January 15th for the previous year. In my discussion, I would also refer to article 53, which adds a new subtitle, which is – Authorization of a unit inspector of local self-government, and a new member which determines the powers of inspectors of local self-government units. The inspector shall have the authority to temporarily prohibit the provision of catering services in domestic and rural tourist facilities if the facility is not classified in the category or the contract is not concluded in accordance with the law. The inspector may temporarily prohibit the provision of hospitality in the event that the inspector is prevented from performing surveillance tasks. Of course, in his line of work, the inspector can also issue a criminal order. It may submit a report to the competent authority for a criminal offence or a commercial offence. It is also important to note that a complaint may be made against a tourist inspector's solution by the minister within eight days of the day of delivery of the solution. The complaint made for all those solutions shall not delay the execution of the solution. Article 63 states that the date of entry into force of this law ceases to apply to a regulation establishing priority tourist destinations, zones, locations and categories of facilities in holiday resorts and tourist resorts in priority tourist destinations. On this occasion, I would like and take the opportunity to praise the organisation of the "My Serbia" tourist caravan, which was in the town of Cačka on July 3rd. The event was organised by Serbia's Tourist Organisation in co-operation with local partners, aimed at promoting domestic tourism and is intended for the domestic market. At that time, the public institution Čačak Tourist Organisation really made an effort to present in the right light all the potentials of the city and the surroundings of Milanovac and Dragachev. The implementation of this kind of campaign aims to speed up the use of accommodation facilities and services in Serbia. In addition to the replacement of the town of Cačka and the hospitality and tourist offer, nine other cities of Serbia, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Subotica, Kraljevo, Užice, Leskovac and Novi Pazar were presented that day. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I am taking the opportunity to point out that the tourist offer of the Chacan region is very heterogenic thanks to the different types of tourism developed in the area of this local self-government. We are fully aware that natural resources take a dominant place in the creation of tourist products. The most attractive is certainly the Ovčar-cablar ravine which has been declared a protected area and will certainly be said about it tomorrow, Banja Ovčar and Gornja Trepca and very perspective for tourism development is the rural area. According to collected data in 2014 in the city of Čačka accommodation service used 31.103 guests. Of this number 9,913 guests or 32% are guests of the Atomic spa Gornja Trepca, and 21,190 guests or 68% belong to other tourist resorts. In addition to the weather disasters that hit Cačak and the economic crisis that is present, tourist traffic at the level of Cačka is similar to last year with a slight increase in individual segments, and thanks to new accommodation facilities and organised continuous promotion. Detailed analysis of accommodation facilities, analysis of visiting dynamics and capacity fills brings out clearer guidelines relevant to work and activities across all segments. The Honorable Chairman, ministers, fellow MPs, in voting day, certainly I will vote in favour of all amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35559	Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35560	President-in-Office, honourable gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will talk about the proposal for a law confirming the amendment to the Statute of the World Tourism Organisation, given that very little has been said today. I will read the full title of the Bill on Confirmation of the Amendment to the Statute of the World Tourism Organisation, in order to know what A/RES/422 (14), A/RES/511 (16) and A/RES/512 (16) were involved since 28 January 2015. I'm going to talk about this just to explain to our dear viewers what it's really about, because we're as a member of the General Council right now at the UN. The World Tourism Organisation's Statute is a specialized UN agency and a leading international, intergovernmental organisation in the field of tourism. It was founded in 1970 and contains 161 members, 161 states and accession countries. What would that mean? There are 350 other associations of tourism, private sector, local self-government. So, one conglomerate of states, which is very good, because in that mix, it turns out to be quality. What should be pointed out is that the World Tourism Organisation's Statute deals with promoting the development of tourism, and then by regulating and introducing standards into the tourism policies of these countries. Since this World Tourism Organization is made up of 161 countries and 350 associated countries, we have the honour and satisfaction that we are one of the members of the World Tourism Organisation, and this is a great way to promote our country in the best possible way. Since we have incredible facilities, from spas, lakes, mountains, rivers, rural tourism, this is a way for Serbia to get the place it finally deserves. What I would point out is that it is currently based in Madrid, and that the World Tourism Organization was founded in 1970, in Mexico, Mexico City. Today in Madrid, in the Kingdom of Spain, and it is what I said: 161 member states and 350 associated. Among those associated there are particularly cultural associations, an association from tourism, so it is a fantastic story about Serbia and the Balkans. We need to say what the World Tourism Organization is doing. The main authorities are the General Assembly, the Executive Council and the Secretary-General. The General Assembly consists of permanent and associated members. The main functions are budget approval, the election of members of the Executive Council, the election of the Secretary-General. The Secretary-General is elected under the proposal of the Executive Council and is usually elected for four years and has the right to re-election, and since there are so many countries in the world organisation, no. We have the honor and pleasure of meeting you at the Executive Council. We've been in the World Organization since 2001. We are in the Council from 2009 to 2013. In 2013, it was a re-election and our participation will be by 2017, which is great, let's use it. I would ask all the people who are there to promote in every way possible this beautiful, beautiful country with wonderful people. What else is there to say about the Republic of Serbia? At this point, we have an opportunity and we need to take advantage of it. What I would point out is that all three amendments that I'm going to talk about are very short and since a ratified complete agreement is being ratified, and this will be very soon ratified, but I'll just mention what it's all about. The first amendment concerns the budget, in terms of financial rules. The budget must always be expressed in euros. The second amendment concerns membership. The third amendment concerns the election of the Secretary-General. The secretary general is elected, I already said, for four years, and this will be voted today by automation. I will speak very briefly about the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of tourism. Each type of agreement is good, as it is bilateral relations, means strengthening the track between the two countries. Their interaction leads not only to the improvement in tourism, but also to the economy at all. What is very important for Macedonia and Serbia is that they can participate together in a third destination, if the presentation is in America, for example. What I would add for Macedonia and Serbia is that we have good economic relations, we have established relations in transport. This is another link in a series of good things concerning Macedonia and Serbia. Given that the Republic of Serbia had a visit in 2014, 2,161,000, the Macedonians were about 70,000 or 3.8%, some less overnight stays were 3.6% of Macedonians, which is very good. Anyway, I need to support these agreements and I'll vote yes in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35561	The word is made by the MP Vladan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35562	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministry gentlemen, honourable MPs, is the very fact that this number of MPs have come forward for a word, speaks of the importance of this topic and the potential of tourism in the Republic of Serbia. I think the adoption of this law gives a great opportunity to small municipalities that have not been active in this area so far, especially in terms of training and grant subsidies. My municipality of Vladimirci has great potential in the field of tourism. Here I think of the river Sava that flows through our municipality 29 kilometers long, then the 14th-century Khoon monastery, hunting tourism, thermal waters, the Vukovar Bar, etc. This is not only a chance for the Vladimirs, but also for the municipalities of the Mačvan County, above all for Mali Zvornik, Bogatic, Ljubovija, Loznica, Koceljev, Šabac, Krupanj. I think this law gives a special accent to training, but also to help the departments with small budgets through financial assistance. Exactly, these two factors were an obstacle to the launch of tourism in small areas without experience in tourism. A great opportunity for tourism in Serbia also provides hunting tourism that is not used enough. Many hunters from Italy, Germany and other EU countries are very interested in hosting our societies. This law gives greater importance to hunting tourism, and especially to hunting and tourist facilities that are not used enough in our country. A large number of these facilities with small investments can be brought into good shape. I'm saying this from personal experience because in the 1980s a large number of hunters from Italy, Germany, Denmark and so on. They came to visit our hunting society in Vladimirca. Believe me, these visits are capable of resuscitating small places like my Vladimirs. So please, if you are approached by people from small municipalities to help them if they enter these streams to raise tourism in their midst to a much higher level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35563	Thank you, dear fellow Milosevic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35564	Thank you. I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the City of Nis. Now we're talking about the Tourism Act and please don't mind me saying this, I know that all municipalities in Serbia are the most beautiful, beautiful in Europe and the world. Otherwise, in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party from the SNS list. Articles 6 and 7 of the law stipulates that the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia's budget provides funds for participation in the financing of tourist destinations and tourist resorts, tourist events in the country and abroad. The possibility is also provided for to direct and encourage tourism development in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and to encourage the promotion of tourism traffic by domestic tourists and organised tourism traffic by foreign tourists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I welcome this solution, because without more serious means of promotion, especially abroad, there is no result. The funds that will be allocated from the budget will return to the budget greatly increased. I'm sure, because Serbia has serious natural beauty, good and healthy food, people with hospitality and seems like a perfect tourist package. That is why I will support this law on amendments to the Tourism Act. Everyone says Serbia is fixing its image in the world. I say, "No, we do not correct the image; we finally show ourselves as we are, to those who want to see us." When we are able to properly present our country abroad, the results in terms of a larger number of tourists and a larger number of overnight stays will not be left. Foreign tourists once they try the cake, sir, we'll have our traditional dishes, our shrewd white machete, our shrewd lamb, and on top of all that being in our society for at least one day, I'm sure, will come again next year and will be our best promoters and best friends. I like to say that I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia with no intention of celebrating my own, but I believe that all of us should always and always in every place spread a good voice about where we are from, about the part of the country where we come from and about our country at all. There are so many beautiful municipalities in Serbia, and it takes all of us to rejoice. The only question is how much we actually know about other cities, municipalities, villages in Serbia. It seems to me that we are ready to go a huge way just to see some tourist attraction in the world, and for that we are also giving a very large amount of money. On the other hand, we have a situation in Serbia that residents of one village, one municipality, never once, or twice go to another village or another municipality. Since I represent the area I come from here, I will say that in Southeast Serbia, which is significantly less touristicly exploited than some other parts of Serbia, such as. Western Serbia, finds a whole series of surely profitable tourist attractions and events. As far as attractions are concerned, I will mention Homolime Mountains, Old Mountains, Rotanj, Srljjska Mountains, Lakes, such as Bovan Lake near Sokobanje, Aleksinac, Vlasinski near Surdulica, Zavojsko lake near Piroth, rivers, their valleys, canyons, such as the Jarma River, one of the most beautiful rivers in Serbia. Timok with all the tributaries, gorges, such as Svrljiška, Sicevačka, Jelašnička, Grdelička and many others. Caves such as Rajkova, Zlocka, Lazareva, Cerjanska, Prenoška, Samar caves are caves in Svrlig. By the way, Samar Cave is listed in the Ginis Book of Records and other caves. As far as the event is concerned, numerous cultural and artistic, entertainment, economic, sports and other manifestations of this part of the country are known. Like, for example, "The Christmas Rise to Rtanj", "Pirote Iron Sausage Fair", "St. Trifun's Celebration at the Paradise Beerhouses", "Luznička Megdan" in Babušnica, "Festival of Children's Creation" in Prokuplje, "International Tourism Fair" in Nis, "Zažarska guitariad", "Sabor of Gajdaša" and "Belmužijad" in Srlig. I can talk more about Srlig, but I just want to point out that it's a very nice event where I invite everyone to come. "Rostiljada" in Leskovac, "Nishville" and "Nismania" in Nis, "Književjevaca Cultural Summer", "Vice Days" in Merošina, "Days of Svivi" in Blac, "Days of Banica" in Beli Palanca. As far as Svrljiga is concerned, our brand, such as the Svrjajjski lamb, svrjski cheese, svrljjska bemuž, is slowly but surely becoming known throughout Serbia and also in Europe. I'm sure and I hope he'll be recognizable in the world. There is still work to be done to raise tourism infrastructure, but I believe that those results will not be left behind so that once they come to us in Srljig, I am sure they will always, always and always, and that applies to other municipalities in southeastern Serbia and the whole of Serbia. Article 30 also regulates rural tourism by predicting that catering services of accommodation, preparation and serving food and drinks can be performed by a legal or natural person. It is prescribed that the person is obliged to obtain an act which classifies the object of domestic work in the appropriate category and determines the scope of services that a natural person can provide. It is precisely the first step and a large number of hosts who are interested in dealing with rural tourism never take the first step and give up the categorisation of the facility. This is what the data tell us about the number of categorized objects, less than 1000 at the end of 2012. That's not small, but if you consider the potential, what is the number of registered owners, you can see that there's room for great progress. I am as the representative of the United Peasants' Party most interested in promoting this type of tourism, because rural tourism, you can see, is underdeveloped, and could be an additional source of profits from a large number of our agricultural landowners, our farmers. That is why it is necessary for the state and local self-government to work on the development of rural tourism and to take measures to promote this type of tourism, both domestic and abroad. I repeat, this money that is given for promotion, the advertising of our tourism potentials returns multiple times both to the full and to the state and home budget and to the budget of local self-government. The state and local self-government must, however, stimulate our hosts to do categorization and start dealing with rural tourism. In order to deal with this activity, it is also necessary to meet certain standards for which considerable resources are needed. The Municipality of Srljig from which I come has always allocated funds to help categorize our land and our people in our villages, because we want to give everyone who wants to deal with rural tourism the opportunity to work. On the other hand, as a representative of the United Peasants' Party, I am sure that the government, headed by our prime minister, together with Minister Ljajic, will put a much greater emphasis on all types of tourism in the coming period. It is that I support rural tourism, but all other types of tourism are very important. An example from the municipality I come from -- there's very developed and hunting tourism, where back a few months ago, together with the hunting association, with the president of the hunting association, we managed to get the Italians to come to us for hunting, and after these joint gatherings, there was a more serious job, where we and these Italians, they were businessmen, they did a big job that would be very, very good for our Svrlig municipality. What I'm saying about Srlig will be in other parts of our Republic of Serbia, because tourism is a very important branch. As for tourism, we must invest much more in infrastructure. I would also now call on our minister, Mr Ljajic, to find an opportunity for municipalities that are undeveloped, which are marginal, which have natural capacity to deal with tourism, to give these municipalities a certain percentage more than others, precisely because of that, to take advantage of what nature has given us. Therefore, once again, as an MP, in front of the United Peasant Party, from the SNS list, from the most beautiful municipality of Srlig, I will support a set of all these laws, because I am sure that the Government, headed by Mr. Vukic and the competent ministry, will succeed in providing for our people, who live in both small and larger municipalities, to provide a better and better life.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35565	I thank my colleague Miletic. The next speaker is counterpart Biljana Ilic Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35566	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, carefully reading the amendment and supplementation of this law, and despite my best wishes, I have failed to clarify a few ambiguities. First, regarding the obligation to pass a professional, theoretical and practical exam for tourist guides, I have several dilemmas, so please clarify more precisely. It is said in paragraphs 6 and 7 to explain that the costs of laying this mandatory, prescribed examination will be borne by the candidates themselves, as before, except for a shorter period when the obligation was lifted for the theoretical part of the exams, which then went to the burden of the budget, and the practical consequence of all this is that the number of possible candidates reported was largely disproportionate to those interested. Now it's being lifted and it's, I mean, it's okay. The next paragraph then immediately discusses the costs that will have to be financed from the state budget, as well as from the budget of local self-government, as compensations to the members of the committees in question for the same expert exam. It is further said - through an aproximate calculation, based on the price list so far, I assume that there will be seven million and 200 thousand dinars at the expense of the Republic of Serbia's budget, with these assumptions, which is more than the cost of compensation so far for teachers. Wait, so what's there to subsidize from a state budget or a local budget or what I didn't understand? In this regard, for me, it is more than a devastating finding, again, I quote -- it is particularly noteworthy that civil servants at the Ministry of Ministry of Tourism jobs are not competent enough, nor possess the necessary knowledge and level of expertise to be interrogators in the course of the examinations. And I wonder when something will be done about it, instead of saying it over and over again, with an unbearable ease of indifference? Is it possible that in the resolution ministry in the affairs of the tourism sector, people whose knowledge does not reach the level of knowledge needed for tourist guides and tourists, which I can only understand when it comes to the work of foreign language exams, although it is said to be one of the world's languages at the level covered by the educational plan and programme of the Ministry of Education? So, there should be enough expert staff to be members of the commission instead of hiring prominent experts whose watch for a reason is expensive, yet unnecessary for these needs, and an additional question – which is the level and extent of knowledge needed by a tourist guide, the companion in particular, and – should the state or employers who hire them worry about it and who, of course, are very concerned about having a top-notch personalised especially on the field of providing the most direct tourist services if they are already operating in a harsh competitive market under unprivileged conditions? The fact that, in practice so far, members of the ministry's staff have not even paid compensation for the commission's solution is fine. Well, it's part of their jobs and work assignments that they've already been paid for through their regular salary. Furthermore, I see that the tariffs and the profile of the commission are left for sublegal solutions. I hope that they will be eliminated all possibilities for illicit actions, such as the unfounded privilege of popular experts, unreasonable tariffs for candidates and similar things that will make it difficult to function in the process of obtaining licences, which would then prevent the giving of a wider swing to this branch and, of course, give wind in the back of the gray economy in this area, although I am again quoting that the passing of these exams is possible only through the involvement of prominent experts from those areas, which are the only guarantee of quality, etc. What is my first thought, I'm sorry, is that it's a little bit exaggerated in this sense by repeating the above-mentioned fears and doubts. So much for that. The second set of my concerns and questions concerns the work of tourist inspections. More specifically, the practical consequences of their lack of action on the ground, which is their basic role. The proposal itself finds, under Part 6 of the reasoning, that the inspection bodies were only able to respond when the rules were violated, in particular for intervention activities. tourism subagents for which there is no accurate record, but only indicative assumptions from 500 to 800. Will registration obligations in the APR, one time or indefinitely solve this problem? I think it's a little funny to justify these costs by thinking that it's only a few thousand dinars, but it's not funny when one such subagent happens in two different seasons in the same way as the most brutal deception of citizens and picks up money for imaginary tourist arrangements and disappears in the form of their own tail. Weary citizens are very little to be comforted by the fact that an arrest warrant will be issued for him, so he will be arrested and punished. How they will also be helped by the fact that after a lengthy trial, they will be able to collect their claims, i.e. stolen money on fraud, especially which they probably won't, because such characters in time tend to clean up accounts and transfer money to some of the exotic non-accessible tax havens, realistically existing as opposed to those offered by gullible citizens. Just don't tell me that the customer of the tourist product is guilty of not checking out who he's dealing with. So he went into the agency, he didn't pay for the trip to the park bench, and the fact that such tourist creations operate due to the busy main streets of our cities, and it's just a job for the authorities. Not to mention the bloated buses and their drivers who can barely and have the strength to roll tourists to their destination. We were witnessing that the bus broke down so another bus picked up tourists, so he broke down or the passengers realized that their driver was taking a nap and they were praying to God to get in one piece or not to end up in some kind of canal. For all of this, it's not necessary, I insist once again, to overpriced, distinguished experts. All we have to do is follow the rules already. So I'm going to support this law, which is basically good, except for these few of my concerns, optimistically believing that future practice will show that we're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35567	Thank you. The word is made by the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35568	Very short. As far as the exams are concerned, the revenues are higher than the costs we pay for the professors. Professors are hired for those exams for which, of course, the Ministry does not have a professional frame, such as the history of art. You'll agree that we don't have to have an art history professor at the Ministry. Professors are hired to study foreign languages, and you'll agree that we still have to hire a bar that's competent enough to question. But the total revenue from the bill is higher than those costs. Officials of the Ministry of Their Payment, which they otherwise receive at the Ministry, shall have no compensation for examining those examinations and cases concerning the regulations or the legislative framework. So there's no special compensation for that kind of exam. As far as this part of abuse is concerned, especially when we're talking about intermediaries or subagents, in the way you've come up with these provisions of the law, you can come up with any legal norm. There is no legal norm or law that can protect against crime or abuse, no. So neither this law nor these norms can guarantee anyone that someone will not commit a crime. We prescribe a clear procedure for sanctioning that part and try to minimize it, as far as possible, with these legal solutions, as well as to protect the traveler, to protect the tourist in the sense that it can be reprimanded if there is abuse, fraud or an act of contract that the passenger has with the relevant agency or subagent. I will agree with you that we cannot guarantee anyone that this will not happen in the future, as in any sector you cannot prevent abuse or the creation of a crime, whether it is tourism, whether it is trade, whether it is any other area in the world. Therefore, we hope that we will succeed in reducing these solutions to a significant extent, that we will be able to provide sufficient guarantees that people can be compensated in the event of a breach of the obligations under the contract, that the penalties will be appropriate and that they will be destimulative for those who intend to do this work.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35569	Thank you, Mr. Ljajic. The next speaker is MP Mladen Lukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35570	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, today the draft law on amendments to the Tourism Act is on the agenda, so at the very beginning of my presentation, I would refer to the natural beauty that characterizes the place where I come from, and that is Baji's Basta. The director of the European Foundation for the Protection of Nature and National Parks, Dr Etkin Clark, said on a tour of Tara National Park: "I imagine paradise this way". The Tara National Park, the Drinska regatta, the unrepeated river Drina, the two Lakes Perućac and Zavina, the shortest river in Europe Vrelo, the famous rock house, beautiful and far-known sights, the wealth of flora and fauna, the Rač monastery and many other cultural and historical monuments are just some of the attractions owned by Bajina Basta, and I could count for a long time. This, after all, places us in one of the most attractive destinations in the country and gives us the right to call ourselves a tourist region. The Tara National Park was founded in 1981 and covers the largest part of the Tara Mountain with part of the Drina Canyon and covers an area of 19000 and 200 hectares. In Tara National Park, more than a thousand plant species have been identified, including the honorary seat of the queen of all endemics of Europe, which is Pancic's submarine. Forests cover 80% of Tara National Park territory. In a crowd of fauna on Tara, there is a dark bear, a giant, and especially the place is occupied by the Pancic grasshopper. Tara is a refuge for over 130 species of birds, while 37 species of fish live in the waters of Tara National Park. Tara National Park has a wealth, cultural and historical heritage and is rich in traces of ancient, Roman and Byzantine culture. Drinska regatta is the oldest manifestation of the tourist recreational character on the Drina River, which has lived for over 20 years, and is organized in memory of the ancient tradition of Drinian rafters. Drinska regatta is a central tourist recreational event, which also seeks to present the entire tourist offer of this region. The regatta is the most visited event in western Serbia and the country's central summer water event, which every year attracts more and more tourists from both the country and abroad. The river Drina is formed by the merger of Beer and Tara near Scepan Polje and after 346 kilometers of its curved flow is poured into the Sava. According to water forces, Drina is first in the Balkan Peninsula, and in the opinion of many, the most beautiful. Pure, clear, powerful and generous, Drina represents a true paradise for nature’s fishermen and lovers. In many fish species living in the waters of this beauty, a young man and a man are certainly separated. The real attraction on the Drina River is now a world-renowned rock house, which we say is a symbol of our city. A large number of world travelers know about this attraction and are very happy to visit it, as well as numerous film and TV teams. Lake Perućac is one of two lakes that completes the tourist offer of our region. This lake extends from 52 kilometers to Visegrad, Andriceva, Drina Čupre and Andricgrada. In this place there is also a fascinating canyon that is the third in the depths of the world. We like to say that it is a sporty sea, because during the summer season it is full of tourists who are eager to enjoy water and nature. Fishing, boating, boats, a ride through the canyon to Visegrad, water sports, arranged Ponton beach, are just some of the summer activities in this place. Near the lake is the river Vrelo, which springs from the massive mountain of Tara, and after this short stream pours into the river Drin, it is actually stricken with quite a height and makes an extremely beautiful waterfall. The flow of this word is exactly 365 meters long, as many years as it is. That's why this river is known as the river of the year. Lake Zavine is another jewel in this area. It lies at an altitude of 840 meters and represents the accumulation of a reversible hydropower plant and is connected by a tunnel to the lake of Perućac. Below it is a trout river, Lake Spijici, above which is the habitat of the island, where Josif Pancic found it in 1875. When we add to everything the native hospitality of local people and our traditional cuisine, we come to the fact that this area really is and deserves to be one of the leading destinations in the country. However, in reality, everything is never like a fairy tale, so there are many problems with us: road infrastructure, lack of quality accommodation facilities, very low rate of payment of residence taxes and corresponding taxes, lack of quality content, insufficient functioning of cross-border co-operation for the purpose of carrying out tourist work, lack of local tourist guides, unresolved status of certain large accommodation facilities. There have been significant developments lately, however, because the Resort Ministry has recognized the Drinska regatta and for that, Ministers with Associates, I want to thank you, because this year you really supported this event. A significant part of the trip to Mount Tara was arranged, too this year. Some of the issues in question, hopefully, will also be resolved by these amendments and amendments to the law, but there will certainly be many unresolved issues left. The question that needs to be seriously considered, because the problem in all the tourist resorts in Serbia is finding a better model for private accommodation, which we have a lot of on the Tara mountain, i.e. to collect taxes and taxis on that basis. Of course, another important thing for us is the institution of a local tourist guide, which, even after these amendments and the addition of the law remains unthinkable. Despite the great need for local guides, we still have only three tourist guides with a national license on the territory of our municipality, and we do not have local tourist guides. Why? Because there is an obligation to own a national licence before the local guide license to which it is quite complicated and expensive to come, which is absolutely unnecessary for the performance of the local guide. We hope that through the amendments, we will be able to improve the existing law and correct the observed shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35571	Thank you. The next speaker is Parliament MP Velinka Tosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35572	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, the respected Mr. Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, has no perfect law and therefore results in the fact that the laws are subject to changes and additions. That's the case with the Tourism Act. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act was created as a result of an analysis of the situation on the tourist market and of the problems facing tourism operators, as well as other operators performing business activities directly linked to tourism. A priority task is the need to reduce the grey economy in all the activities governed by the law. In order to achieve this important task more effectively, the redistribution of the rights, obligations and powers of inspection services has been carried out. This means that local self-government, or authorised inspection bodies of local self-government, has been entrusted with a significant part of the supervision of the law. I would only point out that the city from which I come, Loznica, has only one tourist inspector, and I believe that the terrain is extremely large and that there is a necessary reinforcement in this regard. In my presentation, I will pay particular attention to the amendments and additions to the Law in Article 39. The newspapers are the following – the tourist organization of the local self-government unit performs tasks, including: providing information-propagandic material promoting the tourist values of local self-government units, printed publications, audio and video promotional material, internet presentations, souvenirs etc., and in collaboration with the competent authorities of providing tourist signalling. In fact, the tourist organisation is part of the traffic signalling and so far the tourist organisations have not been competent to do the job, and from now on they will have to, in cooperation with public enterprises dealing with infrastructure, to make that tourist signalling and set up. Tourist space manager means all destinations located in the territory of the city, the municipality, the tourist organisation can place in its offer and its competence, development, participation in the development, as well as the realization of domestic and international projects from the tourism field. This is one advantage because tourism organisations themselves propose their annual plan and work programme and make their own priorities, all in line with Serbia's Tourist Organisation. The newspaper refers to the conditions that should be met by the director of the local self-government tourist organisation and we have spoken this many times today, but probably all of us care about it so much. Of course, such a job must be performed by an extremely educated and responsible person, it is understood that he has a foreign language, that he has a high professional capacity, that he has a job, means that he is fulfilling that he has four years of work experience, of which two years at least in the leading position, not to be the first job, so – firstly, the director. I'd like to point out the problem that's attached to my town of Loznica and my surroundings. My area is not covered by the National Tourism Development Strategy, and there is much to offer. We have Tršić, Tronoš, we have Vukov Assembly, it's one of the biggest events in Serbia, celebrities such as Vuk Karadzic, Jovan Cvijic, Mica Popović, Ante Bogicevic, we have mountain Gučevo, we have Cer, Bobija, Zvornik, Ljubovija, Krupanj, we have a beautiful river Drina. The password is the site of historic battles, otherwise Serbia's cluster in previous wars. And there's our beautiful Banja Maverick. By the way, spa is among the top five in Serbia, according to its visit. By 2000, Banja was the tourism operator of the Pussy County. It was a Mondenic place, and it had that image until 2000, when there was a change in the ownership structure of the company that dealt with the tourist offer in Banja Koviljaca, more specifically HTP "Banja Koviljača". It was a social enterprise that collapsed, so it was state-owned in 2009 to be bankrupt today. As for spas, it should be kept in mind that everything is not being managed as a hospital, but that it is balanced through the content to design and extend the guest's stay, which would affect budgeting through residence tax and various types of extra-pansion spending. Banja and the environment have conditions for the development of health, wellness, sports-recreative, business-congressive, fishing, hunting, excursion-cultural and other tourism. There are various types of offers, such as the Drina descent, bike rides, jeep rides, pedestrians and mountain tours and others. It should not be considered a spa as a spa, but as a multifunctional environment that has and how to offer, since the territory of Loznica is rich in both natural and anthropogenic values. As the password ends back 15-20 years industrially devastated, we in tourism see our great development opportunity. The start of the tourism industry should be our momentum that can drive us and heal us. I would ask all relevant institutions to objectively assess the tourist potential of the password area so that it is included in one of the priority regions of tourism development in Serbia. In the voting day, I certainly call on all my colleagues to support the amendment and supplementation of the law, and I will, of course, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35573	Thank you, colleague Tosic. The next speaker is MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35574	Thank you, esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has been said today, and I am glad that the Serbian government recognises tourism as something developmental and something priority in our economy. I hope that our fins will be, above all, agriculture and tourism in the future. This bill of law, which today lies before us, as some roof law in the proposals of today's five laws concerning tourism and international agreements, is quite good. These are amendments and additions to the laws that have passed a serious public debate and, which I am particularly glad to see, all the areas concerned with tourism and which are an integral part of tourism are detailed and detailed, starting with hospitality, over, for a wonderful miracle of what I particularly like, rural tourism, to the problems that local tourism organisations have, and here I have recognized the long-standing problem first of all the appointment of directors because it was not quite regulated by the law how it should be done. What I would talk about today without repeating myself, given that my colleagues have said a lot is something that should be a causal link of tourism. So, in order to have good and healthy tourism and to be recognized on the European tourist map, we need to have good infrastructure. I think at this point the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing right and good, so we know that Corridor 10 ends, that Corridor 11 is being done properly and especially, since I come from the city of the Kings, what was missing in Serbia, are airports. The government is currently working this year in order to finally train the airport Boats for civilian flights, which will mean a lot, especially in the vicinity of the Kings is our largest and most beautiful spa, which is Vranjska Banja, which will mean a lot to it, since there are some 20 kilometers from Kraljev to Vranjska spa, which is not some distance. Also, the city of the King is at the beginning, come on, I'll say, the Valley of the Ages, something that God and our ancestors left for us, something that we have as a world cultural heritage. This Valley of the Ages extends from the King until after the New Market. There are our beautiful historical monuments, above all our monasteries. It's something that needs a lot more attention than we've ever done. First of all, the city of Kraljevo and the Tourist Organisation of Kralje is a long time ago, and I can say that for a few decades, there is a event called "The Valley of Yorgovana", which has become an international event since this year, since the Republic of France, through its embassy, has also been included in the event, because once upon a time our king planted the Valley of Yorgovana, in order to charm his chosen one, the Yelena of Asia, the princess of France. I think that gives a lot of good results. Something which is also a long tradition, which is tradition – Ibro Ibro. Once upon a time, 100 years ago, from the town of Rožaj from the Republic of Montenegro, it swam all the way to the mouth of West Morava and construction material, or wood, were transported in this way. There were no tracks, there were no roads, and it was the only way. There is a monument in the King to these rafts, set up 10-15 years ago. I think we should respect that tradition and that could be a pretty good tourist hit. Once upon a time, the town of Kraljevo, which is why it has made the "Happy Fall", as a tourist-fun event. Now I see everyone has some rafting, rafting, etc. Well, we can use that, too. Also, we have great advantages because Vranjačka Banja municipality and the town of Kraljevo share a beautiful mountain called Goc, which is three years ago and connected, so the royal and vervain parts are now one. We have a wonderful highway that connects those two parts and all those who want to enjoy the bounties and beauty of our Valley of the Ages and all our monasteries, from Studenica to the 7thmovra Žice, can spend a few days on Goč Mountain and afterwards go to Vrnjak spa. These are all some potentials where we should all, not just one city, the city of Kraljevo, but the whole region, start from Vranjska Banja to Novi Pazar, unite, perform together and create some serious projects. One of the more serious projects and something that was awarded last year by the Serbian Tourist Organisation is the project "Kingevgrada", which was designed against the historic city of Maglic in the Ibra Valley and is a medieval city which was equipped with all the benefits of today's society. I think we should take advantage of what God has given us and what nature has given us and finally all of our spas that we've left behind for the past 15 and 20 years, I can tell you that, take care of it. There are two bathrooms in the territory of the Kralje municipality – Matarushka and Bogutovačka Banja, I note these two because they were also known in that old Yugoslavia, although there are many more, unfortunately, they do not work. Not only were the citizens of these local communities, the Mataruska and the Bogotovačka spas, where the private sector was developed, but they also made a huge profit for the city of Kralje. What's good is that these foreign investors have shown up and that they're finally known, so far they haven't been defined or the relationship to which they belong to the spa, whether they're state-owned, whether they're social enterprises, whether they're public, now that's finally defined, and I hope that at the beginning of next month there will be a public call for those two spas, and I already know that there are interested investors from abroad who, hopefully, will recover that and start us. If I don't keep you and take up your time, I'm sure I'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35575	Thank you, colleague Bojanic. The next speaker is MP Aleksandar Pajovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35576	Thank you, Your Honor. I welcome Mr. Minister Ljajic with his associates and esteemed fellow MPs. Today, several colleagues have already talked about our Law on Tourism, Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act, and I would not repeat what is already said, which are the reasons for the adoption of this law. Simply, in just one sentence to say – by analysing the tourism economy, by analysing the situation in general in tourism in our Serbia, there was a need for some changes to be introduced in this law. These changes are certainly positive in the good part and are going towards promoting tourism and achieving greater income in the tourism economy. It is ideal for us in Serbia to achieve one billion euros in income, we do not have it yet, but it is a proposal from the tourism ministry that we will achieve it, i.e. the wish and the idea is that we will achieve it in the coming year. It is not a small income, although the surrounding countries have much higher incomes. If we look at Hungary, which achieves it several times more, Croatia, which makes seven and a half billion revenues, but it's not just one billion revenues, there are still the following branches that monitor tourism, there's agriculture, there's telecommunications and other branches, so two and a half billion and there's no small income in our country. What I want to point out at this point as well as most fellow MPs, I come from the tourist region of Western Serbia, there are Ovčar-Cablar monasterys, there are Banje, Ovčar Banja, around the town of Cačka, otherwise I come from Guca, from Dragaceva and I can note that as far as Banja tourism is concerned, the greatest need is to regulate property-legal relations, and then enter investment flows and then the revenues from Banja tourism in Serbia would be far greater. Serbia has about 300 sources and 52 bathrooms and we make, I said, a total of one billion euros in tourism revenues only, while Slovenia with ten bathrooms generates two billion euros in revenue. What else did I want to point out? The Ministry of Trade and Tourism has a very modest budget -- 13m euros, and once the same ministry had 40m euros for tourism, if that data, and I think it is, is correct. That's what the previous minister has cut that budget. I said I live in Gucci. I used to be a functionary in the trumpet Parliament, as one of the major cultural and tourist events in Serbia, and we went through various stages, depending on how much resources there were, in order to maintain this significant tourist event. Since 2000-2003, by chance, then Ministers of Trade and Tourism were members of the Democratic Party, we have not received a single dinar. After the 2003 election, the government of the Republic of Serbia was the sponsor of the "Dračevske zbora of trumpeters", we had 10 million. Clearly, there were active Minister of Trade and Tourism, Minister of Culture and Minister of Infrastructure. I would like to thank you this time, Minister, on behalf of the organizer of the trumpet Parliament in Guca, because this year you gave five million to the Tourist Organisation of Dragachev, which was for the organization of the camp and the acceptance of foreign tourists and the marking of these tourist points and tourist signals. We got 20 million this year from the tourism ministry to build the so-called The trouba home, where trumpeters will be placed in the days of the Parliament, and used for other contents during the year. On this occasion, I want to thank you. I want to tell all my fellow Members - Serbia has potential, but it is hard to come to. We have a bad infrastructure, we just live in the circumstances we're in. Maybe we haven't looked at the so-called so-called. Ecotourism or perhaps some part of rural tourism, but this law also regulates some relations in the part. It is clear that it can be a caterer or a physical person, it can deal with rural tourism but this time, this law has arranged many things, so that it knows exactly how much accommodation capacity it can be, it speaks up to thirty people, food service and drinks also to that number of persons, and if we do not give accommodation but only services it goes to fifty people. What is significant is that every country tourism operator must be associated with the local tourist organisation of its place. So all these tourists have to be reported, and they end up getting bills, too, to get everything into legal flows. Another positive side of the amendments and addition of this law, which will be directly at the expense of local self-government units, i.e. under the account of tourism organisations that will be able to invest all this in promoting tourism and developing tourism in their region. We're limited by time. It is clear that we will support this law and I think that the Ministry of Trade and Tourism is going in the right direction and that in the coming year we too will be able to move ahead of the countries in the environment, which are playing the case, right now, far ahead. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35577	I thank Dr. Pajovic. Next speaker, Mr Milos Tosanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35578	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this set of draft laws that we are discussing today, I will look at the tourism law, which has also been created as a result of an analysis of the situation in the tourist market and of the overall consideration of the problems that members of the tourism economy have. One of the main priorities is to reduce the grey economy, which is a fact, and the way to do so is to redistribute rights, obligations and powers of inspection services, all in order to achieve this law economically. One example of new powers is the authority of the inspector to issue an infringement order with a precise amount of cash in order to effectively collect fines and discharging courts. Another of the main priorities that this bill recognises and adopts in this respect is the harmonisation of the law with the directive on organised travel, as well as with the Consumer Protection Act, which ensures a greater level of protection of users of tourist services than an unconscious seller of these services. Also, this bill creates a legal space for efficient and successful management of tourism development. This enables a higher degree of efficiency in the work of tourism organisations, as well as the creation of new market opportunities. Consistent with European regulations has been carried out, which greatly promotes the work of tourism organisations, as European regulations are quite rigorous and their implementation opens up a space for smooth work. New concepts have been introduced. As a newspaper, they represent the modern form of business and organisation of tourism entities, which means the possibility of including some new activities that exist in other countries that have not been present in our country in a legal way. One of the examples of newspapers in business is that more and more tourist agencies, private entrepreneurs in the tourism domain, and not by chance, are advertised via the Internet, i.e. via booking websites. A major step has also been taken towards prescribing obligations related to the level of professional training and work experience for the director of the tourism organisation due to the emergence of unprofessional personnel in the management posts, which negatively affects the proper work and prevents further progress of tourism. That means the right man will be in the right place. And that is the only way to expect progress as efficiency in the work of the tourism organisation. The introduction of this obligation also affects the achievement of raising the quality of work in the promotion and planning of tourism development, as well as the efficient realization of planned activities and projects. I note that the economic potential of tourism in the Republic of Serbia is quite large, but so far it has been used insufficiently, which we must note, precisely because the current law has in some way limited it. As can be seen, this bill brings a lot of newspapers that will give the necessary freedom to exploit this potential fully. Finally, another important thing is a good correlation between the Tourism Act and other laws, e.g. with the Transport Safety Act, in the area of tourist protection during the use of transport services. A lot has been said today about this law, and I don't want to repeat myself. In short, I said what's most important about this law. I will uphold this law as well as the other laws of the set of this law that we are discussing today and I will vote for it, of course. I wish the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister and Government a lot of success in the work, and I thank everyone else for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35579	Thank you, colleague Toshanic. Next speaker, Dr. Darko Laketic. Comrade Laketti, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35580	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People, good afternoon. I'm very glad we're talking about the Tourism Act today. There's a lot of reason for that. The first and basic reason is that our Serbia really has a large number of natural resources and has natural beauty and deserves much more tourist visits. This can be achieved through more significant investment in tourism, but also in this way, adequate legislation. What's very important is that, I think we all expect it from this law. Another not less significant reason is that this law defines the rights and obligations of tourist agencies, tourist organisations, as well as the users of services. We can say that this law also defines the levels of education, i.e. the number of years of work experience in the profession, knowledge and skills to be owned by the directors of tourist organisations, which is very important, but also the tourist consequences. In fact, we are witnessing an irresponsible one, and I would say, reckless behavior by certain tourist agencies. You remember well that there were indeed a lot of unpleasant events when the users of tourist services in the earlier period were left without accommodation, without food and without help from tourist agencies in some, I say, earlier period. In this bill, compared to the existing one, we can say that there is a difference. This law decides what is the obligation of a tourist agency, which is to provide accommodation for passengers throughout the duration of the contracted journey, to ensure the arrival and return to the destination, to engage throughout the journey at least one travel companion, etc. I personally believe that this is an adequate legal prerequisite that these unloved scenes never happen again, and that the responsible persons are certainly sanctioned. On the criminal provisions of this law, the minister spoke more and he really wouldn't be here. In addition, I think it is very important because this law defines and prepares professional experience, work experience and adequate legitimacy of licences for tourist guides. Also for tourist animators, there are conditions. This is very important because I personally believe that this introduces additional seriousness in the field of tourism. Also, as a good solution, I see the arrangement of rural and hunting tourism. What is particularly important is that this law regulates the categorization of all our potentials, I am now talking about rural and hunting tourism. This is very important because in one place we will have an adequate number of objects that are categorized and in this way I think we will be able to adequately organise one meaningful tourist offer of our country in this area. As a health care professional, I am particularly pleased with the provisions of the existence of legal provisions relating to health and sanitary supervision and inspection. This is very important because you did not rely solely on the Health Protection Act that already defines and regulates this area, but I see that in article 76 you specifically said that a person who provides food and drink services must meet the health conditions defined by the Health Protection Act. In a similar way are defined and sanitary conditions, sanitary hygiene conditions of the facilities where food and drink are prepared. All of this, with the definition of very important tourist concepts that you have introduced, which definitely show a more modern and modern approach to tourism, which is the destination manager of the organization, the company's destination manager and the tourist cluster, I personally think we have received a good law which, above all, reflects a common desire to improve this area, therefore, areas of tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35581	I thank Mr. Laketic. Next speaker Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35582	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, stands before us today a roof law, several laws, but the roof law on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act and I will look back at it in a few sentences, given that my SNS colleagues have already spoken a lot. What I want to praise first is that the amendments and additions to this law were passed in a broad public debate where all participants and actors of the tourism industry, as well as university actors, the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics, the Association of Tourist Organizations, hoteliers, Vranjska Banja Tourist Organisation, the Serbian Tourist Organisation, were involved in the adoption of amendments and additions of this law. When all relevant factors and factors directly involved in tourism are included in the drafting and addition of one law, one good legal solution must certainly be derived from this. Another thing for which I would like to praise these amendments and the additions to the laws, concerns the obligations our country has made, and as regards the implementation of European directives in our legislation and in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act, the 2006 Services Directive as well as the Directive on the organisation of travel, rest and circular travel has been implemented. Also, what I want to point out is that, apart from public debates and the implementation of EU legislation, this law also implements legal provisions relating to the Consumer Protection Act, which is also significant in terms of the protection of users of tourist services, the Law on Infringements in the Case of Violation. So they were implemented and already adopted and already in force the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Serbia. What I want to point out is that this law reduces the strategy of tourism development, which was normally passed over a time period of ten years, to a time period of five years, which I think is good because in a time period of five years, realistic goals can be set. It is not only the objective of this government to adopt a strategic document, but also to adopt an action plan that will accompany this action document, and the action plan must specify exactly the institutions, the precisely indicated activities and the exact timing of the implementation of certain activities. Only by fulfilling all the activities of the Action Plan and Strategy as a roof document can be implemented adequately. What I must also praise, is that in terms of professional preparation, especially in the leading places in tourist organisations, and above all at the place, there were management staff, whose professional prepares, skills, knowledge, education in no way could lead to promotion and could not lead to a vision of tourism development of one end or one continent. The amendments and additions of this law specify the degree of professional training, specify the degree of working experience, specify the knowledge of foreign language according to what the Ministry of Education prescribes, and all of this certainly creates good conditions for better quality of work, both the management staff and the institutions they represent, which are tourism organisations, both Serbia and the tourism organisations of local self-government. What I also want to point out is that this law and what a priority goal it is to combat the gray economy. Perhaps this is the most obvious example in the obligation of intermediaries to register in the tourism register. I must point out that so far, travel agents have not been registered in the tourism register, that they are estimated to be somewhere in the territory of the Republic of Serbia between 500 and 800 and that this was also the creation of a place for gray economy. Now the intermediaries in the legal obligation are obliged to register in the tourism register, and after that they will be, they will all be published on the APR site, so that tourist service users will be available, but they will also be available to inspection bodies that can respond in good time and adequately, especially during the pre-season when these tourist trips are cheaper. Also, what I want to point out is that these non-profit organisations, pious associations, pensioners' associations, are not working here, in fact, the law aims to achieve greater transparency and visibility of what they are doing in accordance with their founding acts, in accordance with their rules and statutes, but in order to ensure this visibility and transparency and avoid any suspicion of possible abuse and possible corruption, these organisations are obliged to adopt an annual travel plan and this annual plan to deliver to the Tourist Inspectorate within seven days of the adoption of other acts that they have, of course, and it does not require any additional costs. What I particularly want to praise is that it is also giving an aspect of the expansion of rural tourism, because rural tourism is considered to be very important, both from demographic and economic aspects and enlargement, especially from natural persons, because it is now possible that natural persons who have registered rural tourist households on their plots, organize and camp up to 30 guests. I must stress that the "My Serbia" campaign also had a great success, that only 12.7% growth was recorded on the basis of the campaign and that around 60,000 overnight stays were recorded on the basis of issued vouchers, and the total number of vouchers was 11.760. I come from the southwestern part of Serbia, from the part where there is an invaluable mountain wealth, it is Zlatar Mountain, the pearly clean river Uvac, Pribojska Banja, the Milleseva monastery, the St. Nicholas monastery in Banja. In this area is a cultural and historical heritage, the identity of two peoples, Serbian and Bosniak. I hope that the Ministry of Tourism will recognise the importance of tourism development and this region and help projects that concern the development of this poor but very rich tourist area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35583	Thank you. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35584	The beginning of the debate did not promise much, because after the opening statement of the minister, almost half the hall went out and some thought it was a boycott, but it was worth staying all this time, because colleagues who remained very inspiringly spoke about their homelands and it was indeed a pleasure to listen to these idyllic stories, some of whom were indeed above the level of one essay for the first grade of high school. Of course, we didn't hear any essentials from either the minister or later in the discussion, clear evidence of why this law is so important, so good. Of course, the changes were necessary, but apparently after the presentation of my colleague Biljana Ilic Stosic, I agree with her completely, and because of the short time, I don't have time to repeat what she said, I think she said it very well, and it's a pity that it wasn't heard in the benches around her, but the remarks she made are about trying to fix the law, that this attempt is more unsuccessful than it is successful. We will see this in further discussion, in any case, it is good that we stayed up to five hours with this topic, which is of course very important for Serbia and I am sorry that there are only some colleagues, 10-15 of them from ruling parties who went to Moscow yesterday to play a football tournament with colleagues from other parliaments, probably in order to melt co-operation with Russia, increase revenues from tourism, etc. Mrs. Comic, a co-worker, asked the minister one important question, to explain the involvement of Hepako from Vracar, in the decision to make changes and complement the spatial plan of the area of special purpose of the Kopalnik National Park. Namely, the decision was originally scheduled for the cost of drawing up the plan to be borne by the competent ministry, and then the government in the chairmanship of Aleksandar Vukic made an amendment to article 10, and now the member reads – the funds for making changes and supplementing the plan are provided by "Hepako d.o.o." Belgrade – Vračar, with an estimate of six million. It's a company that was founded on May 20th last year...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35585	Ambassador, I think you're something...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35586	Please, tourism, the development of tourism on the Kopalnik is the basis of Serbian tourism.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35587	But it's about amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35588	That's right. Of course, but we also need to get some information that will guide us to whether this law is well-designed.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35589	I hope the minister understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35590	And I think we got along. So, the owner of the company invested 100 Serbian dinars in the establishment of the company. His name is Mater Suhaj Al Al-Alabuhan Drahir of the United Arab Emirates and he is funding the area for the special purposes of Kopalnik, which is the cornerstone of Serbian tourism, where Article 6 of that plan includes the special importance of changing and supplementing the valid spatial plan in terms of showing an accurate range of special purpose complexes, the Kopalnik of the necessary for the functioning of Serbia's Army. It would be very interesting for us to get an explanation in terms of the development of tourism in Serbia that the company that was founded with 100 dinars, and that is already the second company from the Emirat of 100 dinars, this first received from the Serbian Government JAT apartments on the same Kopalnik, how is this second firm of 100 dinars now dealing with things that are important for the special purpose complex Kopalnik, which is necessary for the functioning of the Serbian Army? It's a very interesting thing, and I don't think we can skip it, no matter what it may not be directly related to this law, as well as any events in Svrelig and the White Palance are probably not related to this law. I'd like the minister to give us an answer to this question, of course, so we don't reopen an affair. I think a good, exhausted answer, which can be provided now, would be the point of any speculation, but if we don't get a good answer now, exhausted and accurate, then I think we're in a new affair that we're probably going to have to take care of on that TV duel when it comes to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35591	Minister Ljajic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35592	Unfortunately, you have to wait for the TV duel. I can't give you an exhaustive answer, not what I don't want, but what I don't know. Therefore, neither is it part of the ministry's jurisdiction, nor is it part of today's debate on changes and additions to the Tourism Act. You'll get a response from the competent institutions and ministries and I don't see anything controversial about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35593	There's no replica because the minister answered you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: One sentence. Well, now, one or 15, and the replicas either do or do not exist. First I have to give Zoran Babic an injury to the Rules of Procedure. But ask the question Thursday, the minister is right, and the competent ministry will answer you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: If we came on Thursday.) They will. Here's next Thursday. Set it up on Tuesday, anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35594	Thank you, Madam President. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. I won't ask him to be spoken of by the Assembly. I appreciate your attempt to bring this debate to some decent streams and talk about the agenda point. I am sorry that this debate that I enjoyed during the afternoon, which was full of emotions towards its end, according to its municipality, towards the city from which it comes, promoting tourism potentials, polluted by some stories about essays, sports activities and other things that have nothing to do with the agenda point. As for these sports activities and colleagues who are now on the road, it seems to me, if they have not arrived in Moscow, I would also like to inform the Serbian public that there are representatives and oppositions and positions, the ruling majority, and that colleagues have gone at their expense, not at the cost of neither the Assembly nor the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but well, it is another one of these affairs that is moving, which has nothing to do and is not founded in the truth. This Government of the Republic of Serbia promotes real values in tourism, and this is confirmed by the season in Vrnjačka Banja and central Banjska Park, which after so many years as it stood, and where they turned their heads on the other side and guests, but also by the citizens of Vrnjačka Banja because the funds that were used up in the past were not known to you or any public procurement, is now the central Banjska Park for Dick and Pride and Vrnjačka Banja, but also Serbia and that park opened by Mr. Aleksandar Vukic. Unlike some previous period, when, for example, I don't know what the Minister of the Interior is federal or which, promoted the potentials of the Tower, a wonderful, large and beautiful municipality, but the potential of the Tower, the tourism potential that he promoted along with the Special Purpose Unit and the then commander of the Special Purpose Unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35595	So we don't have to make a statement about article 106. Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35596	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mrs Gojkovic, the Honorable Minister Ljajic and the Honorable Guests of the Ministry, who have been closely following this debate all day, were injured by members of 103 and 107. The Rules of Procedure of our National Assembly. Let me explain in two minutes how the Rules of Procedure just got hurt. First, Mr. Babic sought word for the violation of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 103. When he received his word, he did not say which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, respected gentlemen and respected presidents of the National Assembly, and then Mr Babic used a term that really violates the dignity of the National Assembly, which is the term to pollute. What did Mr. Babic say here? He described the speech of one MP as a term of pollution. Dear gentlemen, I think it is not appropriate for a National MP in our debate to say to the MP for his speech that it is polluting. Please, National Assembly President, at least use the Serbian Dictionary. I have here a edition of the Serbian Mother, from Novi Sad. It can be used to explain the meaning of some words. By b, respected Mrs Gojkovic, you allowed Mr Babic, instead of explaining how the Rules of Procedure had been injured, i.e. how you hurt the Rules of Procedure, to replicate Mr. Zoran Zivkovic to what Mr. Zoran Zivkovic had previously said. Mr. Babic did not get the word to replicate, Mrs. Gojkovic, but to explain how you hurt the Rules of Procedure. You didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's your turn to warn Mr. Babic of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35597	The Rules of Procedure were not injured because MP Babic called and said that I had allowed it to speak beyond the agenda, article 106 said. That was his first sentence. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: I apologize. You apologized, so it's okay. Members of 103 and 107, and then you said what you had, has the right to orally point to an injury. Article 103 is about everything I've just said. You called 103, believing the MP didn't say which member, which he did, so it's groundless. We can't vote now on both grandmothers and frogs and everything. It's a groundless first sentence. It's only about grandmothers, so it's only about Article 107's injury. I did not react when he said to pollute, because I did not respond when MP Zivkovic said on the estuary that the MPs did not reach the level of high school. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: I said they did. I would like there to be a lot more people here who don’t even have primary school, and they speak with the voice of the people. So I don't see what it is that someone has a level of elementary, high school, etc. So I didn't react in your case, so then I can't react in any other way. The word has a folk MP Biljana Ilic Stosic, a replica. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. () When I give my word, then you cannot shout and belittle your colleagues, as they are told – sit down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35598	Please, Madam Chairman, to convey your colleagues across the street that I am extremely glad that he agreed to my debate, but I'm afraid he didn't understand it. I've asked the two most banal questions that I personally don't understand. The minister responded very kindly and professionally, we made that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35599	The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35600	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. You, President, have now replicated to me, and have commented on the violation of the Rules of Procedure sought by Mr Pavicevic. You spoke and you interpreted my words and you said: "grandmothers, frogs, and what I said." That, of course, you can do, as you know, by picking up the replica, sitting in the bench and talking about what I possibly did wrong. This is how we came to see that there are still no double criteria, but there is one harang over the opposition, where we can't say anything. I can listen from any polluter to insult me, because the question of pollution is also from a position that sees this pollution. The pollution of something that runs through Dorcolo's heels and perfume is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35601	So, I don't know anything about Dorcolo, I'm from Novi Sad, but Dorcoola isn't in the Rules of Procedure. So in order not to violate the Rules of Procedure, I must interrupt you. Article 104 says - if the MP in his statement at the session is offensive to the MP, and I believe that you are a member of the Rules of Procedure for the sake of order. I have not spoken offensively of anyone, but I have responded to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Members of Parliament who sits next to you. I can't say my name, because there's going to be an insult right now. You want to vote on Article 104? Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35602	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to start by asking if this bill applies to TV tourism as well. So, since some TV duels are mentioned here, here I am honored to say that two minutes before the TV duel itself on TV Shabac, which is not controlled by SNS, has escaped from the former prime minister. Today he's calling up some TV duels again. I'm ready for that kind of tourism. If this law includes that kind of tourism, here I am offering it, although my party qualifiedly won in 2003, when he was prime minister, 2.86% of the vote. His new one, composed of used politicians, has not yet reached that result, but I am offering him, as a stronger political party for this TV tourism, that the two of us look at each other on any TV show. I think I'm quite qualified to deal with him. If we weren't to bother some of the Ministers of Trade and Tourism, not to bother the Prime Minister, here's what they told me -- you're good enough for that kind of tourism, go finish it, I came, the man ran away. Everything I've heard so far, I've heard about some kind of tourism that my colleagues have reportedly brought out and apply to the first grade of primary school. An attempt to insult doesn't necessarily mean it's an insult. Insulting isn't freedom of mind. Insulting can be rude, but I leave it to the audience and the viewers. A colleague of mine praised Nis. Praised him for all his mouths. I think it was Milletic. He said Nis was the most beautiful and beautiful city. It's easy for them to get rid of this size. I'd ask them what would happen if you moved in, not moved out. As far as the law itself is concerned, of course, that, as a farmer, and I expected that from my fellow farmer, we should say especially about rural tourism. That should be especially commendable. Not just for rural tourism. Through rural tourism are promoted, for example, organic food production, old, traditional way of preparing and preparing food, drink, etc. It's very important for women, it's very important for the Women's Network, I believe. Women in the country make their contribution, because they are the keepers of tradition in preparing food, potions, etc. and Art. 29th and 30th, not to look at the law, or 28th and 29th, refers to rural tourism. There's talk of a night in the houses. So it's enough to 30 beds, etc. The physical face can deal with tourism, rural tourism. It is very important that certain plants for food and drink production can receive tourists to consume food and drink up to 50 people. That means exactly how much it costs on one bus. Speaking of which, let's mention that wine tourism. There's an old Roman wine road in Sreme. You certainly know. Mr. Martinovic lives in Srem. He knows that it refers to the Cortanovci, Beška, Krcedin, and it is still the bed of the old vine. I, by the reputation of the vineyards and the carpenters, who brought the log, brought a copy of the old vine, (The People's Messenger shows the vine. ) which the state dropped the moment it granted the grant to Krcedin 525 000 euros. So we're doing traditional wine preparation from a vine that's from a Roman period that's been renewed and renewed... This one's 601 years old. Who doesn't believe to check? Whoever's been checking that log, have the docs take a look at it, too. It is a little younger than the line of Saint Simeon of St. Gora, but it is older than the one in Maribor, which is 500 years old. This is ruined, the locality, the wine road, the new wine road. There's no winery. There are now 52 acres of men with rifles, who keep watch over the orphanage, that of the property acquired by nationalization, by the grabbing of previous owners, 1945-1953... From the Jaksic family, which deals with wine tourism, it has been kidnapped and the prime minister who has claimed to return it has usurped it and it has no purpose anymore, there is no winery there. Instead of the winery, we've got pigs. Is there a winery or a pigsty? I invite all of you to see for yourself. I'm saying there's a pigsty in there. There's no wine production there. There now grapes are sold in the reef and there are men with rifles standing awake following that poor woman, who financed that vineyard, doesn't accidentally pick up a grain. I'm against this kind of tourism to pull huge funds from the city, sausages because of wine tourism, rural tourism, in three years they cash it, pick up rags, move out of Nis, Nis be a beautiful city, and Indjia and Belgrade... What we get, that's what my colleague Babic said and I don't want to mention that word. Speaking of wine tourism, hunting tourism would be welcome. Hunting houses, hunting homes, game, game specialties, dry sausages, towers, etc., which go well with black and white wines, but no winery, already has pork. It's time to turn the sheet, not do what they did. The best rule will be that power that does nothing of what the former party of the former regime did. I believe that my fellow farmer still has the duty to suffer for the village rather than suffer in the country. With this in mind, then it takes subsidies and incentives from the state to go for the development of rural tourism, hunting tourism, wine tourism. That's very important. Not only because of tourism, but because of the survival of the people in that territory, it is important that when women survive, when families survive, children are born, it is important for safety, it is important for sovereignty, it is important for agriculture, it is important for the protection of the environment, it is important for the protection of domestic animals, it is important for the maintenance of hunting funds, wild animals, it is important for many reasons. What's important is that we don't have old villages, where there's no dog to bark about anymore, or have nothing to feed it or are all extinct. Serbia's tragedy takes place in the Serbian village. Either we see it, or we don't have to exercise power. So it's time to turn the story for the benefit of not only rural tourism, but also for the benefit of agriculture, rural development, etc., not to see for three years whether any of their relatives will come to them and their last wish in the country, where there is no more production, to see their descendants' eyes and wait for them for three years. A woman down in Nova Varosha went through the matches, to the doctor, and she said I died. The doctor's asking why? Well, he says, at least I can see my sons, daughters, and grandchildren one more time. So that's the kind of Serbia that's dying, that's what we're looking at, that's what we inherited. We have received from our ancestors a better state and at least we owe it to the descendants that they are in the same condition at least in front of me. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35603	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? I'll give you a replica, just tell me which segment you're in and I'll give you the replica. I don't mind. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Turn on my microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35604	Do you think the predecessor's speech didn't apply to me? I think it is, and I'm asking if you think it is or isn't?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35605	Even though I can't do that, I don't think so. But I'll give you a replica if you recognize yourself in that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35606	Thank you. Of course I've never been to a TV duel, not two minutes, not two hours, not two days before any TV duel I've canceled. That lie doesn't matter. It's part of one way of acting. On the other hand, it's sad that someone puts themselves as something that they wouldn't say what it looks like, or what it is, because it wouldn't be appropriate for this home, so I don't want to go into that part. Finally, all people in Serbia, especially the Sremci, know that there is wine Srem and pork Srem. I've been doing winemaking for a while, of course, without these lies about any abuses, for almost five years now, I've had nothing to do with that vineyard, unfortunately, but I think it's completely incompetent that someone who is an authentic specimen of swine's happiness is talking about wine and wine srem.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35607	What did you say, MP? (Marian Risticevic, from town: Replica. ) (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: I did not say Pork Vronjačka Banja but Pig Srem. I'll give you a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35608	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, knowledge has limits, ignorance is gone. There are no two kinds of Happy, there are three. There's wine, rosemary and pork. That's a fact. Regionally, the old definition of Srema, Mr. Martinovic knows it. I live in rosemary, a bit of slope and wine. That vineyard was very close to me. So I've always been in wine and rosemary. In which you will place yourselves, it is up to you. Not just you, it depends on those who look at you, listen to you, etc. Trying to offend me can't get away with it. I can't force you to respect me or honor any MP you've offended here for now, but I can stand up to you. Not because you're trying to insult me, because you're trying to insult all MPs in a row, I don't know who you haven't tried anymore. This is where you used the terms of cattle, garbage, bandits, gangs, etc. I never told you those words. Its saying “cannot come out of the wicked mouth, but out of the bad word. ” That's when he wrote most likely that he was psychic and was referring to you. Now I ask you, in the replica, is it true that in April 1999, while little Milica Rakic was killed, in favour of Target's company in Dimitrovgrad for the purchase of ammunition, you brought out a million and 250 thousand marks and plus $100,000 on behalf of the cost of providing ammunition through Romania and Bulgaria? Says the OB sector report from VPD 18795 of 1. - 29.4.2003. It's interesting that the money's out, and neither the ammunition nor the money has arrived. So that was a million-and-a-half marks and wonders, the money in Dimitrovgrad of a certain Russian you were carrying. So, while the people were bleeding and little Milica Rakic died, you were dealing with ammunition smuggling and what our people say – fly a million and a half marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35609	Ambassador, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35610	So, the predecessor precisely defined that the term I used – Pig Srem – is no insult, but that it is one sub-region of that part of Serbia. As far as this story is concerned, as far as I understand Dimitrovgrad, 1999, ammunition, it's an absolute lie and a lie. I invite you presidents, Deputy Prime Ministers and all MPs present to request an urgent statement of the competent service that wrote that document, if that document exists and to establish any link of mine that has anything to do with anything contrary to the interests of this country. The mention of the militia is really a complete mess. I was in uniform during the bombing, visible, and I was with people who died, and where you, these individuals, were going to be able to determine just some analysis based on the burden, not some other literature. You allow such insults. That's what you're allowing in this House... And you're talking about tourism, you're talking about parliamentaryism, about Europe, it's really scary. I would ask you, of course, that people know who is who in Serbia, this is a beautiful little country, but what's small is that people remember who was the former regime, who voted for who, who did what, who was excluded from some coalition, it's not a theme for this replica, nor for this home. But the insults I've been putting up with here for 20 years and some years, and especially under your presidency, they really go beyond that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35611	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35612	Of course whatever mouth they are and whatever Marin Holder he's been talking about, I can't take it as an insult, but it's an absolutely inadmissible thing, such a lie in this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35613	Ambassador, since you have spoken to me, that you may suffer insults under my presidency, I thank you, but I ask you not to be struck by just the insults that you think someone has done to you. I ask you to listen carefully, and when you say insults to other messengers, it will strike them. Then we'll be able to talk about how the sessions are conducted. But if we have... (The People's Messenger throws out of place. No, no, you spoke to the president about how to conduct the session. I don't have to answer it any other way. I'll use it this way. So don't be sensitive just when you're told something. You challenge this yourself and the MP has the right to... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: He has the right to lie? That's what you said he was lying. Don't just yell, please. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: You are stronger than me. I don't really want to talk. You said that Serbia is a small state, that it has earned better MPs, we can agree on that, depends on who is saying it and who is talking to whom, right? But first, let's let these people vote for one of us. Maybe they didn't vote for some. So much for the insults of all MPs, by you MP Zivkovic. You're giving lessons to all of us, you're handing out bags to all of us, you're setting our intellectual educational level, I've never interrupted you even though I have my own opinion specifically in this way of expression, but now I have to... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: You are here, from Serbian Athens, how are you not ashamed to tell the truth? All right. Is it okay now? Did you say everything you had on me? We've got a session tomorrow, so figure out what else you're gonna say about me. I don't care. Here you go, Ambassador Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35614	Ladies and gentlemen, this is my fifth replica in this session, just so it's clear I don't have any special privileges. I'm ready to go on a polygraph with a fellow farmer and find out who's telling the truth, that it wouldn't be a substitute of some SNS government, that it wouldn't be that this is the subject of Milosevic's authority because it's been mentioned in 1999, I'll tell you that I read the SSNOA Security Department's report 14-116 since 21.08.2002, so now look who was in power then, and another report has both sectors, meaning two, since 29.04.2003, when the prime minister was my fellow farmer and fortunately he's right, the people know in this country who is who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35615	Here you go. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35616	Of course the facts are not determined on the polygraph. The polygraph determines whether someone is lying or not. These allegations are an absolute lie, but that proof can't be done by someone going on a polygraph. As is known to be an accident polygraph is not a perfect tool and many people who are slightly different from others can easily cheat a polygraph. So it's not a real tool. The real means is to call on military authorities, your minister, Gasic, until it is removed on the orders of the Anti-Corruption Agency, to give information to the MPs of the Serbian Parliament, as well as to the public on an alleged document already mentioned by the MP for the third time. I'd like to find out exactly who was carrying what money, where money, especially in 1999. I was probably carrying Russian arms money from the seat of the National Assembly of Nis to the Russians that should have come through Bulgaria, which was then in the NATO Pact. So if someone knew all the Cyrillic letters, it would be clear to him that it's completely pointless...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35617	Over. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: If it pleases you. I am thrilled to have the opportunity to turn off your microphone. Now, for the thousandth time, you have said, "Does anyone know the Cyrillic, does they know this, does they know that?" That's enough. You're calling for some level. To save you that someone can vote for you anyway. The word has the People's MP Branko Karavidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35618	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ministers, guests from the government, fellow MPs, after this heated debate of about half an hour, I would like to return to the topic of today's Assembly. The amendments to this law are justified, given that they are further in line with EU legislation, that all those working in the tourism economy are in line with the proposals. According to the amended law, the proposal -- the grey economy in this area will be reduced, new modern forms of business and tourism organisation will be introduced, the presence of unprofessional staff in the management posts will be removed. The ministry and government will encourage tourism traffic in the Republic of Serbia. The area of tourism professions will be arranged. The redistribution of rights, obligations and powers of inspection services will be carried out. Greater protection of users of tourist services will be encouraged, etc. By reading it like that, everyone would say that these changes are correct and necessary and most of them are and I welcome them. But by carefully reading this bill, some very important questions have been raised that I expect answers from you, Mr. Minister. The draft law provides for the possibility of providing means to promote and improve tourism traffic for domestic tourism, or domestic tourists and organised tourism traffic for foreign tourists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to guide and encourage the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I suppose, and you're in today's exhibit and you said that this domestic tourist traffic most likely refers to the share of the voucher. I hope that this action will be implemented next year, and I will now take advantage of the opportunity to ask you – what is the assessment of the financial effects of this action so far, up to some cut? However, I do not understand this second part that says, I mean the second part of directing and encouraging the development of tourism from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which refers to organised tourism traffic by foreign tourists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, what exactly is behind this formulation? It's unclear to me. Is it possible that foreign tourists will be shared vouchers for organized stay in our country? How will the money of Serbian citizens be spent to encourage organised tourism traffic of foreign tourists in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? I urge you to make that clear. I believe he is interested in me, my colleagues and the citizens of Serbia. Furthermore, I welcome the conditions that the director of Serbian tourism organisations must meet, but I disagree with the appointment of the government on a proposal from the ministry. The Director of TOS should appoint a Government based on a public competition conducted, taking into account the importance of TOS, as well as the powers and conditions to be met by the Director. Through the competition, it is necessary to guarantee transparency and the choice of the best candidate. Why do you avoid competition? I think a member of the 44th Amendment Law will also cause problems in local self-government units. This gives the possibility to units of local self-government, which has been declared the tourist site of the first and second categories, so that it can establish tourist zones, locations or spatial continents by its act. The catering facilities, i.e. hotels and motels in those areas, must meet certain standards, i.e. category, and in accordance with the acts adopted by the units of local self-government. The act contains, among other things, a method of assessing the alignment, i.e. consistency, terms of alignment that the hotel or the motel should meet, the height of the penalty and the method of payment of the penalty. Therefore, if an object is found in the tourist zone, that is to say, a hotel lower than the one provided for by the municipality act is given time to the owner to coordinate the category of object with the intended act of the municipality. If he does not do so within the time limit set by the municipality, he will pay for the penalty. That's how I understood that article. Will each municipality designated as a tourist site of the first and second categories set deadlines according to its own means or will they be the same in all municipalities? About the material expenditure of the owner of the facility, if they decide to match the categories with the required level of the unit of local self-government act. There's not a word. Why does the government not encourage the owners of these facilities either by favourable loans or by part of grants to improve the tourist sites of the first and second categories in general? I expected these amendments to the law to include the announcement of the city manager of the City of Belgrade, which stipulates that all the hostels in the buildings must obtain the consent of the resident assembly by 1 February 2016 or that they will be banned from working. In this proposal, the hostel is mentioned only in Article 49 paragraph 2 and in the section relating to inspection supervision of the application of the law by the unit of local self-government, as regards the fulfilment of minimum technical conditions, including in hostels. In this bill, I don't see what City Manager Goran Vesic has announced, or is it possible that the City of Belgrade will rule out what needs to be dealt with by law? What about hostels in other Serbian cities, say Novi Sad, Nis, Subotica, Pozharevac and other cities? Will every city in which there is a hostel, according to its purpose, be bound by the rules on the work of hostels, and will they also be subject to the rule that by 1 February 2016 they should obtain consent from the residents’ congregations, or will their work be prohibited? It would be good for you to clarify this current topic for us. In the end, I think we attach extremely little importance to health tourism. It's our tourist development potential. Health tourism is under-exploited, almost undetectable, and we could position ourselves as a wanted country in this branch of tourism in Europe. We have great potential, especially in the area of dental services, rehabilitation and aesthetic surgery. By insisting on the development of this tourism branch, they would benefit as a multi-state state. I have a question for you - has the Government, or your Ministry, recognised these extraordinary potentials and are there plans that will affirm this branch of tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35619	Thank you. First the minister to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35620	As for the effects of the action "My Serbia" and the sharing of vouchers, I mentioned on several occasions today that by yesterday there were 13,100 vouchers, and it is estimated that there will be 111,000 overnight stays, as many voucher users remained longer than those five days, as a condition that they could get vouchers. We still don't know the financial effect, because the action lasts until November 15th this year, but certainly, as a pilot project, we can say that it has succeeded and will deliver its full results next year, because it will last throughout the year. As for the incentives we intend to give eventually, depending on the budget, for the organised bringing of foreign tourists, no vouchers will be given to them, but agencies that bring foreign tourists are stimulated. So we stimulate the recipe and that's what we're talking about. We've got 4% of everything, even less by our estimates, receptive agencies. I also mentioned Macedonia as an example, which has successfully done so, which has managed to bring a large number, primarily tourists from the Netherlands, thanks to the incentives given by the government there. Which model it will be, we have not yet defined, but we are thinking about these direct financial incentives or tax reliefs for those agencies that bring foreign tourists. In any case, this will depend on the financial opportunities in the following year, i.e. in the next budget. As far as the rules go, you've asked a good question about the hostels. We have long had a debate and debate with the city of Belgrade, because it wanted to have the exclusive right to organise this area, independent of other cities and municipalities in Serbia. In the end, we agreed to bring in one general, general rule that will apply to all municipalities and cities in Serbia. Therefore, there will be no opportunity for the city of Belgrade to have some special competences in this area. It will apply to all places in Serbia. Of course, Belgrade is the most affected, objectively, because we have the most illegal work and gray zone, when I talk about the work of household facilities and private accommodations, when we talk about rural tourist households and when I talk about hostels and we believe that this way we will greatly reduce that gray zone. As for health tourism, it will take place in this tourism development strategy. We have one plan that will be part of that whole strategy. So, a special chapter will be dedicated to health tourism. The condition for him to develop, as most MPs have said here, is to end the problems with the property status of our spas. We have to separate the section relating to health tourism and we have to have the part that relates to spa and wellness tourism. We had a case of Slovenia, which brought health tourism completely into marginal position compared to wellness and spa tourism. Now they return to the development of health tourism. We believe that we have enough good potential both in terms of profession and in terms of economic potential, i.e. banana resorts that can be attractive tourist destinations.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35621	I thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, and the chairman of today's session, Mr. Becic, the distinguished guests of the Ministry, Mr. Ljajic, welcome to the National Assembly. I noticed that you are not our frequent guest, when I compare the work of other ministers, and I immediately give you the first question – why are you not more often in the Parliament, Mr. Ljajic, to talk about big issues, about big topics which, among other things, Mr. Ljajic, concern and tourism? I remind you, our Assembly is an institution that exists to discuss visions of different, different plans, Mr Ljajic, if there is any dilemma, to discuss dilemmas here, and then to come up with something in common that will point us to the best plan, to some vision. You've seen some songs here for you, which are often recited to children. In a Serbian language, it's called lullaby. So, you've come across here today, here, I can say it freely, very clearly, to a large number of fellow MPs' lulls, above all the SNS. So that should encourage you to come more often to the National Assembly with bill proposals, with topics for discussion, etc., and not to be gone, Mr. Ljajic. I'd like you to tell me why you're not here more often. Secondly, I agree with your explanation for the bill on amendments and additions to the Tourism Act. It says very nicely there that we want to reduce the grey economy, and we're up for it. It says there that you want more effective realization and payment of fines. And we're up for it, Mr. Ljajic. Not only are we here consistently, but we've been defending a stricter criminal policy for a year and a half, so we agree with this argument. Also, you say that it is necessary to comply with European directives. Of course. So we have to say clearly here – towards the European Union, because there are standards that provide us with the best conditions of life and in this area. And not only life, but also actions in the economy and in other areas, even tourism, gentlemen. But we have submitted, Minister Ljajic, 15 amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tourism Act and I believe that you are interested, if we agree on these matters concerning the reasons, how could this be submitted to the entire 15 amendments. It could have been on Articles 3, 16, 21, 29, 30, 51 and 58. And we had to, Mr. Ljajic, and two amendments to the following articles: 44, 56, 60 and 62. Why, dear gentlemen? Because we are leaving, Mr. Ljajic, from the most important principle on which our country and our Constitution rest. This principle is defined in Article 3. The constitution, and it says, is the rule of law. This principle, among other things, respected gentlemen, implies that laws must also be very clear and very precise. I, Mr. Ljajic, came across, along with Mr. Zivkovic, to the terrible language inaccuracies, e.g. in this bill of law. All our 15 amendments concern that, gentlemen. I am surprised, then, by the MPs of the SNS, who have prepared the lullabys, that some amendments have not been prepared. Here, for example, Mr. Ljajic, in Article 16, let me just tell you, just to illustrate this...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35623	Mr Pavicevic, I would like to extend my respect to the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35624	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35625	No one interprets your manner of expression, so please don't tell anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35626	You're free to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35627	On the other hand, I'm asking you to say something about the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35628	So I'm saying, Mr. Becic, you weren't listening.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35629	I haven't heard a single quote from this law yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35630	I've called for an explanation, and I've agreed to one piece, and now I want to illustrate to Mr. Ljajic where mistakes are made, and he can't be, especially with that minister who doesn't come so often because I expected him to, someone who doesn't come here often, when he does, will prepare himself so there's no small objection to what that minister does. Here, Article 16, Minister Ljajic says – the travel agency is obliged to hold the registration solution. Minister Ljajic, if she is obliged to, then it's enough to stand - she holds a solution to the registration. Why is it necessary, Mr. Ljajic, to say that she has to, so should we pile up some words here, Mr. Ljajic? What does it matter to me? Only when we talk about laws, that's clear, accurate...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35631	Time, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35632	You took 30 seconds from me, Mr. Becic. Can I round this thought?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35633	I didn't take anything from you. Finish your sentence, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35634	So, I work with students in the first year who get one manual for writing essays that are long three pages long. In the end, I have the following instructions, before handing over the final work, to make final corrections, so that the mistakes of this guy don't leave the impression of innocuousness and superficiality in the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35635	Time. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. This law is great, when you just found a literal mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35636	I've submitted 15 amendments, Mr. Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35637	Okay. The word is Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35638	Here, I was just about to say that this is the best proof that we have one great law, if you of all remarks have found language problems and doubts and mistakes that have been made, then this is really a good job done. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic. We will accept your amendments concerning these linguistic concerns. Some are also corrected in the legal and technical order, but we will be very happy to accept all those amendments that will help improve the text of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35639	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35640	As a replica, Mr. Becic, on two occasions mentioning in the persuasive sense of the SNS and the MPs and the MPs of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35641	Yes, you're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35642	I would remind you, Mr. Chairman, both Mr. Pavicevic and all other MPs that we are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that it is our right, but even more our obligation, to promote potentials, to promote quality, to promote the beauty of our country, our citizens and citizens. It is bad when in the National Assembly, no matter what they call today's SNS speech, they are also called essays, and not in a commendable, but in a pervasive sense, they are called lullabys, even though lullabys sing children and not talk. The National Assembly is no place for lullabys. That is why I think that Mr Pavicevic and the term were used to address the other colleagues and colleagues who promoted the place in the best way, promote values, promote tourism potentials and events in their municipalities and cities. I have learned much this day, from the lamb of the purpose, which I have not tried, and there is no reason, and to the potential of the Drina and the rafting and the Drina, and to Ibra, and Goč, and the Kopalnik, and all that the messengers of the people and the messengers of the people have spoken. But it is bad when a National MP arises in the Serbian Parliament, and he says, "There is no such thing to be heard in the National Assembly, when it is a lullaby, when it does not please his ears." And what's good for him? And what should we talk about? And what should we talk about besides the beauty of our country and the potentials of our country and the tourism potentials of our country? The Serbian Progressive Party will continue to speak, no matter how offensive we are, no matter how inappropriate, but we will continue to talk about our country with full respect and respect for it and for our citizens, no matter how dissatisfying it is for our counterpart Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35643	Thank you. Here you go, Dr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35644	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honorable Vice President Mr. Becic, the Honorable Minister Ljajic and, of course, the respected guest from the ministry, none of the words I used in my previous speech is an ugly word. She didn't have any of them persuasive meanings, but I agree with Mr Babic when he asks the question here – what is the obligation of the MP in our home of the National Assembly? The duty of a People's MP, gentlemen, is not to sing songs for good night, Minister. The duty of the MP, Mr. Becic...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35645	Mr. Pavicevic, please, I am once again trying to ask you in a nice way to respect the MPs of this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35646	I respect that. All right. What is the duty of the MP, Mr. Becic?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35647	Mr Pavicevic, I could also go to the bench and comment on your speech in many ways, but I respect you, and I think that your way is fine, as you wish, explain and give a statement about this law, but do not question other MPs. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the post: Here you go, Mr. Becic. Allow me, Mr. Becic. In particular, in an ugly way you try to qualify the way they speak in the National Assembly. I beg you, I don't think it's your nature to address the MPs in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35648	Can I go on now? The replica was Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35649	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35650	Now, should I turn myself back on, since you've been talking for a minute? Then let me turn it off and do it again. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35651	Please, in one sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35652	So how in one sentence, did you speak for a minute?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35653	Mr. Pavicevic, I don't think you want the way you should talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35654	Mr. Becic, I want to replicate Mr. Babic now.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35655	I beg you, continue to replicate to MP Zoran Babic, which is why you are entitled to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35656	My question was also Mr Babic's question – what is the obligation of the MP? Mr. Becic, it is the duty of the People's MP that when a minister arrives, we should ask the minister a little bit, to present him to a critical court because he is acting on behalf of the executive authority. It is the obligation of all of us, whether we are part of the ruling coalition or we are opposition MPs. That's why I'm saying, there was nothing persuasive about my presentation, but one invitation for every MP to do his duty here, and that's the duty that comes out of the oath that we've sworn here, gentlemen, to control the executive power, not to take control of it, as today was the case, I apologize, I must say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35657	I thank you, Mr. Pavicevic, but exactly what you said is talking about what you said. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: O me, O you, all the messengers. You challenge the MPs to use this topic, as Mr Babic said, to promote the place where they came from, to represent the voters who chose them in this National Assembly and you are now challenging them, and in your five-minute speech you mentioned the law in one sentence. Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35658	These empty benches show the strength of the former regime and the strength of opponents of the government and the politics of Aleksandr Vukic and the government of Aleksandr Vukic. Here, and that kind of power in the former regime is now parting, because it's about to go. But Mr Pavicevic and I have one elemental misunderstanding, that there and such opposition, the stealth opposition, these empty benches should replace the MPs of the SNS, who won the election of support, move to the other side and criticise the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what are you talking about, Mr Pavicevic? What are you talking about? About what obligation? Where does that commitment say? Where does it say such a thing, that the MP per difolt has to criticise the government? Elemental misunderstandings and an elemental attempt to make something that is definitely defiled, definitely that it doesn't exist in our country, be supported on the other hand, that your essays are promoting the value of Serbia, and that your song for your ears is critical of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For what? To criticize Mr Ljajic, who followed every project in Vrnjačka Banja, the queen of Serbian tourism, who accompanied her, and not only by the presence, not only by the presence in this hall, not only by the presence of Vrnjačka Banja, but also by other tourist sites, but also by the financing of projects? Come, Mr. Pavicevic, come and see what the vernacular central park looks like.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35659	Time. Thank you, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35660	Come see what it means when you're under advanced authority when you run one municipality, one city, one place and one state, and I'll show you pictures of what it meant to colleagues in the benches in front of you. Excuse me, stealth to colleagues in the benches in front of you. (Vladimir Pavicevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35661	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Pavicevic, I appreciate you very much, but I don't think we can go on like this. A circle of replicas has been completed. You caused the replica, Mr. Babic responded, and now we're back on the agenda. The word has a national MP, Branka Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35662	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister with Associates, Honored Citizens, we today have a bill on amendments to the Tourism Act. I can say for it that it contains very precise, modern provisions, that it is in line with our new legislation and with European legislation. The amendments and additions of the Tourism Act have been governed practically by those areas and these parts of tourism propaganda and services that have been unsettled or overcome by the current law or have been observed in practice. These areas are practically now promoted. The proposed changes and additions will improve the quality of service provision in tourist activity, suppress the grey economy, and the service users will be protected to a greater extent and will contribute to their greater satisfaction. How all this will be achieved, we have heard this today from all my fellow Members of Parliament who have presented their literary compositions. But I will repeat briefly: By prescribing conditions for humane tourism organisations, by establishing more modern forms of business and by organising entities in tourism, such as the organisation's destination management, company destination management and tourist clusters, as new forms of association between the public and private sectors. Furthermore, provisions relating to travel organisers and the prescribed reference standards which state the reasons for the withdrawal of the licence have been developed. Significant newspapers are also prescribed in Article 23. The bill also refers to intermediaries and their obligation to register in the tourism register. Article 56(6) The bill is tax-recorded data that the travel agency must make available in its brochure, as well as that the travel agency's documentation must be in Serbian and extremely foreign language, when the travel agency is obliged to provide a certified translation. In this way, the harmonisation of this law with the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act has been fully carried out. A very important newspaper is defined in the subtitle of Article 53. – the authority of the unit inspector of local self-government, which can now, under certain conditions, prohibit the provision of catering services in domestic and rural tourism facilities, from temporarily prohibiting the conduct of tourist activities in the event that an inspector is prevented from carrying out surveillance tasks, may issue a criminal order, may file a report to the competent authority for a criminal offence, a commercial offence or to file a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. The inspector of the local self-government unit can also make a solution to the temporary ban on performance. All of this has been impossible so far. Because of the insufficient number of tourist inspectors, many irregularities and illegal practices remained unsanctioned. The practice was that so far the inspection of local self-government, according to observed irregularities, had only informed the competent tourist inspection, but, I say, due to a small number of republican tourist inspectors, there were many gaps left. By transferring second-degree jurisdiction to the level of municipal, or city councils, efficiency is obtained and the competent ministry, i.e. the minister, of those jobs which are certainly not a priority in its work. These changes and additions provide greater and more effective protection for users of tourist services. What is a very important newspaper proposed by these amendments and additions to the Tourism Act is the introduction of conditions for staff at the leading places in tourist organisations at all levels, and above all at the local level. As the occurrence of unprofessional or insufficient professional staff in the leading posts has been observed, conditions for professional training and working experience for the director of the tourist organisation have been laid down. The area is fully decorated – a profession in tourism, tourist guides, local tourist guides and tourist escorts, and a representative of the tourist destination is being introduced as a newspaper. All this really leads to a better promotion and planning of tourism development, more efficient realisation of planned activities and projects in the field of tourism. Of course, this draft law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act gives us a modern and harmonised law. This Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, mentioning, in the part of the criminal provisions, has made a major improvement in the introduction of a payment order, which requires more effective implementation of the collection of prescribed penalties, and existing experience in the application of such provisions in some other laws, for example in the Law on Road Safety, says that more positive effects will indeed be achieved on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Minister, I have made some observations on this occasion in terms of these proposed amendments and the addition of the Tourism Act, and I have done so, of course, as a folk MP, and I have done so as a graduate lawyer and longtime judge for violations in Novi Sad, given that I have had the opportunity to apply the provisions of the Tourism Act, working on the requirements for the initiation of the infringement procedure by the Republic Tourist Inspectors. However, as a People's MP, I will have to ask for the attention of present colleagues and your attention, so that in the second part of my speech, I should also present my literary composition, since I am very fond of writing, and I have read a lot of books, and as a MP, I am actually a person representing the entire population of a particular area. So, on behalf of the citizens of Sremski Karlovci, I'll bring you the following. Just another little depression – I hope that my literary composition will not be as it has been so far in the presentation of my colleagues. With regard to the tourist offer, the Sremski Karlovci have something to show for it. Stražilovo – the most famous excursion within the National Park of Fruška Gora, only 4 km away from the city center, thanks to the glory and significance of Branko Radičević, a student resort and a place of unique poetic pilgrimage is famous. Danube – because Sremski Karlovci lies on the right bank of the Danube, which provides numerous opportunities for the development of sports-recreative content. Castle garden – a complex located in the village, 500 meters from the center of Sremski Karlovac. He used to represent one of the oldest botanic gardens in the country. It extends to two levels, in one sport-recreative centre, i.e. content, and in the lower part of the promenade. Koviljsko-Petrovaradinski rit represents a special nature reserve under the protection of the state of preserved and diverse original and hydrographic forms and the presence of rare and distributed species. In 1989 it was declared an international significant habitat of birds, and in 2004 it was included in a list of protected areas dependent on water and significant for the Danube basin and is on the list of the Ramsar Convention. In Sremski Karlovci there is the Vladic Court, the Vladice of the Sremski and the Central God-like School. Sremski Karlovci, according to geographical data, are 12km from Novi Sad, at the far northeast of Srema, at the foot of Fruska Gora, on the right bank of the Danube, so an ideally located municipality with various opportunities to attract tourists, business people and potential capital investors on the Belgrade-Subotica road and the Istanbul-Varsha international railway. From this brief presentation to say, the literary composition, the listener would conclude that the revenues of the municipality of Sremski Karlovci from tourism represent a significant item in the local budget. However, local self-government has been run for 12 years by people whose personal interest as well as the political orientation they carry out and followed by the primary and the interest of the citizens of Sremski Karlovci is irrelevant. Despite all the natural potentials that I have cited for the development of tourism, Sremski Karlovci cannot boast of the results in its tourist activities, I am referring to the number of visitors, tourists, the number of nights achieved, the planning of tourist potentials and the work of a tourist organisation founded by local self-government in Sremski Karlovci. The remains of the former regime, representatives of these remains, back 12 years, and now still, are the authorities in the local government of Sremski Karlovac and the Tourist Organisation of Sremski Karlovac Municipality. And as they run the Tourist Organization in the Sremski Karlovci, I need to give you some information. In the 2014 report on the work of the Tourist Organisation of Sremski Karlovci Municipality, which was discussed on the 21st seedling of SO Sremski Karlovci, on 9.6.2015, it was reported that the Tourist Organisation, for the sake of example, obtained revenue from the sale of goods, whatever it was, amounting to 31.765 dinars, while the same income in the previous reporting period was 69.490 dinars. So, twice as much. In response to the committee's question of reasons for such a fall in income, it was stated precisely: "The revenue from the sale of goods in 2014, is lower than the previous year, as the traffic of visitors was lower. “ Scary. Despite this finding, however, it follows: “As for the employment of people who are not in a permanent working relationship, Sremski Karlovci Municipality's Tourist Organization, 24 temporary and trusted contracts have been completed, with tourist guides, as well as with workers through the Studen Association. “ All in all for 2014, the Tourist Organization spent 1,053,952,21 dinars for these purposes. Furthermore, how successfully the Tourist Organisation of Sremski Karlovci Municipality worked in 2014, according to the fact that in the report on the cost of earnings of permanent employees 5,689,907.55 dinars were allocated, and that at the same cost over the previous reporting period, i.e. the previous year 2013, 2.5 million were allocated, i.e. 2,543,104 dinars. Therefore, twice as much was spent in 2014 without the number of constantly employed workers being increased. Therefore, the costs of advertising, posters, propaganda, according to the report, are another 1.225,000 and all of that, and the results are left behind. According to the report by the Municipality of Sremski Karlovci, there are therefore fewer visitors, fewer tourists. I would like to present another piece of information, which is that in 2014, from the Sremski Karlovci Municipality budget, a donation of 4,888,610.40 dinars was made for work, while in the previous period, as a donation, a donation, was made to 1,387,452 dinars. So the data is scary. Two-and-a-half times more money has been spent and the result is much weaker. I will also mention the fact that during the entire 2014 trip to Stražilovo, it was off-limits to visitors, because it remained unsettled, and the only restaurant on this field was not working, and it was also stolen, all of which belonged to inventory, and the key to the same restaurant was the director of TO. I am sure that the proposed amendments to the Tourism Act will prevent this kind of treatment in tourist organisations in general, and also in the local self-government that I come from. The conclusion is next, the local self-government tourism organization from which I come from, achieved lower results in the previous year, but spent two and a half times as much resources to organise and promote the development of tourism in the municipality. All of this is without consequences, no responsibility for punishment, and at the expense of the citizens of Sremski Karlovci Municipality. Just before this meeting, I was informed that, with regard to everything forward, the Socialists' Committee Group Aleksandar Vulin, in SO Sremski Karlovac, launched an initiative to review the municipal budget and the budget of the tourist organisation Sremski Karlovci municipality, with the competent state auditor, requested the Inspectorate to work on and control all contracts on occasional and temporary transactions and applied for the availability of all information of public importance from the TO municipality Sremski Karlovac via the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. The outcome, all citizens of the Sremski Karlovci are waiting, as are the upcoming local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35663	Thank you, Mrs. Jankovic. The People's MP, Miodrag Nikolic, came forward. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35664	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law, as a businessman, can judge that it is quite good and it is always good, whatever it is, there will be results, it will be something better, it will all work hard, and today my colleagues are participating in the work of the full-day session of this session. I will try not to repeat what is said today, and I will try in some way, as a businessman, from practice, from life and from the field, to make some examples, and then, I will make some concrete proposals, as I have written two amendments all with a goal and a desire to remove what is really on the ground and those biggest, burning problems that occur on the ground. In my opinion, the twenty-year collapse of the Serbian economy through privatisation, or as I often know to say, through the globalisation of the Serbian economy, the former regime destroyed everything, destroyed education, destroyed personnel, no more personnel, no more expertise. To the truth, something was done here during Joseph Broz, when we had, at the time, before Stipe Shuvar appeared, who destroyed the education system. When all economic personnel had to have two to three days of practice and training, it is also today in Germany, Austria, developed Europe, and with schooling, listening to theories and different lectures, they and how they build up what they know and how such people come out with a diploma immediately able to assume responsibility to provide full capacity, full knowledge and full service, or if it comes to production performance in production. Unfortunately, our economy, what's been going on for years, for the last 20 years, a large part has gone out of the country. We are witnessing that unfortunately they are leaving far less today, but they are leaving, and that is the greatest loss of one country, including our Republic of Serbia. I'm going to present a proposal later on how we can possibly overcome and resolve it. I'm going to set an example of a businessman who invested several hundred thousand euros in a magnificent tourist sports and recreational congressional centre near Kragujevac, all in flowers, swimming pools were made, sports halls, tennis courts, etc., I don't know how much you're going to believe that, but it's like that, I know a great man. Three years back, she calls the competitions, addresses the employment service personally with the Director of the National Employment Service, talks to her, looks for a manager, offers 100,000 starting salary. They apply for 10-15, come to look at what they have to do, give up, come back, they're not responding that they're not even close enough to be able to run one such object. The worse, the weirder, the sadder, the sadder, the more sad it is that today in Serbia, it's hard to find a waiter and cook, a little better, not a good, little better chef or waiter, you can't find him. Seven times, the businessman has called for competitions, on the radio, addressed the National Agency on TV, and what little ends up in Kragujevac at school, which a little ends up in Chačka or Vrnjačka Banja, those children are not guilty, they are completely without practice, they do not know as chef of maltene a burger to bake. That's true in the field, believe me, I speak as a man of life and practice because I travel, circle, hear, listen, and as president of the Association for Economic Revival of Serbia we have several thousand members, so these are one of the other proposals or objections or problems. Especially in the summer season from May to September, you know that most of them leave, leave their jobs, go to Montenegro, go to Croatia, Greece and other EU countries where unfortunately the truth doesn't have any more money, big pay, but gets 400-500-600 euros there on their hands, no insurance, no pension, no social, but that's what the difficult economic situation, 20 years of chaos in the country, brought people to save themselves, not thinking about having tomorrow's pension, that they're going to support themselves or possibly part of their family, to help their part of the family. So, it's nice everything you heard today...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35665	Mr. Nikolic, your group of MPs has another 30 seconds, so I'd like to ask you to bring an end to your presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35666	I'm done. So, here, I will be more specific, I would ask the Honorable Minister to try to give the Government a regulation, if that is possible in the shortest time, and to pass the law later, to change the law to do nothing else than because we are seeking the EU, what is in the EU countries, especially the Central EU, to start all education, from high school to higher and higher education, to high EU, or Central Europe, whether it is KV or whether it is higher or higher or high professional, that two to three days these people practice in the economy, or directly in the facilities to study, in addition to the theory that they learn and practice and that there are no such problems as they are, which is possible to do with the regulation. Otherwise, everything is nice that we have, everything is nice, and the fact is that our prime minister has made huge efforts to start the economy to work, but without personnel, without good, educated and educated personnel, professional people, it is not possible to do the right product, it is not possible to provide the right service, etc. Of course, on the day of the vote, as an MP from the SNS list, we will vote for this law and in the days surrounding the amendments I will explain my two amendments, they refer, if only to the chairman, to Article 50 and Article 51. ...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35667	Mr. Nikolic, you're going to have to do that in detail on Monday, and I'd like to ask you to bring it to an end.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35668	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-10-01-0.u35669	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 5 of the agenda. I thank the MPs, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Rasim Ljajic, with his associates for participating in today's session. Continuation is tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
