ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43032	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 84 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that we have conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? The word is Dr. Blagoja Bradic. Here you go, Mr. Braddick.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, respected Nislija, for the seventh time I will ask the same questions to the Prime Minister and ministers. My first question is – When will the railway line be moved from the city of Nis from the center of the city? I will remind Prime Minister and Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic that the city of Nis in 2010, while you say the last regime took a loan from the World Bank of 9m euros. One and a half million euros were given for the production of a feasibility study. The city of Nis has by 2012 when the shift of power occurred, when you took over the leadership and responsibility for the management of the city, done the planning documents, and this is the General Urban Plan, which provides for a new route of movement of the railway, a plan for detailed regulation of the new track track, a complete geodesy of the future new route. The existing route that is planned, i.e. which is now existing, it is projected as a path of light rail transport. From the planning documents you should have done an idea project, a major project, a general project and completed the expropriation of the remaining route that was not expropriated by 2012. My question is – what first happened to the loan that was withdrawn from the World Bank, whether it was implemented until the end and when you will continue the procedure of moving the railway from the centre of Nis. The delay and shift of the track on the water, to think that at the last moment when the entire track is finished between Nis and Dimitrovgrad due to the extortion, will be forced, as you say, to be, i.e. your former director of the Railways of Serbia - temporarily to be electrocuted by this railway. I will remind you that the citizens of Nis have, on several occasions, made parliamentary decisions, positions and opposition, so they have made unanimous parliamentary decisions, made a decision and sent a message asking for the absolute removal of the railway from the city of Nis, without any temporary electrification. The second question, I ask the Prime Minister and remind him that in the 2012 and 2014 election campaigns, he promised the citizens of Nis and the citizens of southern and southeast Serbia a better life and more jobs. In the city of Nis three years after, or three and a half years after the exercise of your authority, i.e. these congregation majority and government, Nis has over 36,000 unemployed or according to the latest data from the employment service of some 35,000 unemployed Nislims. What's been done in the last three and a half years, it's the opening of the Johnson Power plant, it's a contract signed in 2010 and it's good that it's open, but it's about 350 seats, and since the opening of the new jobs, we've only got a promise that Johnson Electric will hire thousands of people in the next period, as you say. My question to the Prime Minister and ministers of the current government – What is their plan for the development of the city of Nis and the south and southeast of Serbia, and when will the city of Nis finally take its place on the economic map of Serbia, which it deserves? In the town of Nis the people do not work, the city budget is filled with about 60, 65%, so what is the basic function of the city is difficult to implement and implement, because there is not enough money. What you have managed to do as a congregation majority and as a government in the city of Nis is to raise taxes, to raise the prices of municipal services, and no new jobs. And again I ask Mr. Alexander Vukic – What is the plan for the development of the town of Nis, when will the pre-election promises given in the 2012 and 2014 campaigns be fulfilled and when will the citizens of Nis have a better and better quality life and when will over 35,000 unemployed Nislji be employed? Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected citizens of Serbia, the respected Nišli, I will repeat this question every time I get a chance at the college of my parliamentary group that I belong to to ask a question and I will ask it until I have a good answer. First, when will the railroad be moved? The answer that will say – will you be forced, i.e. temporarily electrify the track, or will you shift and when will this plan of development of the town of Nis finally be heard?
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43034	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43035	I thank the chairman. My question will be addressed to Agriculture Minister Snezani Bogosavljevic Boskovic. According to the World Food Programme, globally it falls somewhere between 30 to 50% of total foods produced. In France, for example, 7.1 million tons of food. Under the new law in France, shops and trade chains are required to sign a contract with humanitarian organisations and soup kitchens that will later forward food that they fail to sell. Under their law, strict penalties are also provided for, two years in prison or 75,000 euros for those who break the law. My question is Minister Bogosavljevic Boskovic – does Serbia know how much food produced and whether the Ministry of Agriculture is considering such a law, because in my opinion and opinion of my colleagues from the New Serbia parliamentary group, we think it would be very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43036	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I refer the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia – When will citizens enjoy the fruits of the rule of law? Today, Mr Selakovic must know that there are countless cases in Serbia, in Sutotica, in Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Smederev, Nis, Vranja, Leskovac and in many other municipalities and cities across Serbia, cases where citizens who bought apartments have been cheated by investors, by financial institutions, where they cannot move into apartments that they have earned fairly and paid them fairly. Today, these locations are under dispute. So what do these citizens do? Who will protect these citizens today and why is there no rule of law in Serbia? When will citizens enjoy the fruits of the rule of law and when will institutions function in a way that protects those who have acquired the right? Is it an apartment, is it a pension, is it those things that many constitutional courts and many courts in different countries around Europe and the world have reacted and protected their citizens, when the rule of law will bear fruit in Serbia and when citizens will be able to feel secure? Today we have a situation where 55% of young people are unemployed. They are on the sidelines of this society, nor make decisions, nor influence them, as if no one cares what Serbia's future today is 55%, not only is there no work, but they are left absolutely without any perspective to cope with during a period called the biggest crisis in Serbia's history. How will they survive, define their interests when no one represents them? When I don't speak to anyone on their behalf and when the Government of the Republic of Serbia allows us to have various investments, so to speak. investments in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia allocates huge funds, hundreds of millions of euros, and on the other hand, we have cases where 55% of young people remain without any future and perspective in our country. The next day, many young doctors, many young lawyers, many engineers, will find happiness first of all in another country that cares more about our young people than Serbia. We also believe that this is a great injustice that is joined by those who take care of our country's security. And we ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia how and how it will solve these burning problems today in society. When it comes to military and police, and when it comes to pensioners, and when it comes to health and education workers. When will the Government of the Republic of Serbia understand that the rule of law is a prerequisite for each citizen to maintain his dignity. When the Government of the Republic of Serbia realizes that today the sea of dissuaded people in Serbia is the sea of those who are trying to reach their rights under the law, which belong to them under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is simply not the case in this judicial system that is present in the Republic of Serbia. When citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to enjoy the fruits of the rule of law and not only when it comes to young people, when it comes to pensioners and those working today in the public sector of the Republic of Serbia, but also when it comes to those who once participated as members of the Yugoslav Army in war conflicts, and today they are left to cope with whatever they know and know. Disproved in the sense that the state owes them huge funds, disbursed because no one wants to listen to them, was disproved because the government of the Republic of Serbia believes that those who were wrong when they were wars in the former Yugoslavia, not the then-Governmental government of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Serbia who sent them into the war. We have great problems to explain today to the citizens of Serbia why the system of justice does not work in our country and when all those who have illegally come to their property will answer. When will those who were in the 1990s and later with various machinations come to an increase in their personal property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43038	Does anyone else have any of the reports? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43039	Thank you, Chairman. My question to Minister Antic. In fact, several years ago, an interstate agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation reached an energy agreement that gave us the oral wording of the representatives of the friendly Russian Federation, that Serbia with later construction would have energy stability and, above all, a great financial benefit, not only for the state of Serbia but for all citizens of Serbia. We do not consider it a fraud, the acquisition of some other circumstances has led to the construction of the South Stream not being started and will never be started at all. In addition to being largely damaged by the energy stability that this government of the Republic of Serbia will have to solve, and we believe that Prime Minister Vukic will find some solution that, first of all, as far as supplying the Republic of Serbia with gas is concerned, this type of supply will not be compromised, and citizens living ordinary lives have major problems due to the agreement reached, suffer and many aspects of damage. What's this about? Many citizens speak to us as MPs to try to ask the right questions on their behalf at the right address and to solve their problems. One of the last citizens to speak to our parliamentary group is Mr. Goran Dumitrov of Mokrine at the kickinda. What's this about? The explosion of oil derivatives is large in that area, because there are close to 200 wells. Large trucks and tanks pass daily, and great damage is done to local and architectural roads. The state has to some extent remedied the damage on these roads, but the damage that citizens suffer is still greater than the benefits. Mining rent, regardless of which is one of the lowest and which is irregularly paid, even though a share is paid up to ore rent to local self-governments, local self-governments do not transfer money to where the damage is done. Often money is spent for other purposes, for staffing, for payouts, for other projects, and not for the damage done to ordinary citizens. That is why citizens expect us and the Members of the people and the Ministry of Resort to solve these problems. My particular question to Mr. Antic, what will the Ministry of which he runs, do, is that part of the money from the payment of the mining rent goes to the recovery of the damage, primarily on local and architectural roads, so that at least in that part our farmers will be zero. If they can't benefit from this energy agreement, if they can't have better roads, even if they have the roads they had before this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43040	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43041	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, before I ask a parliamentary question, I want to congratulate the Serbian and Serbian government on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, in the opening of negotiating chapters 32 and 35, in hopes that this trip to Europe will not be too long and tiring. Now I will move on to the parliamentary question, which I am asking the Ministry of Culture, offered by it, like you, I probably followed this live discussion last week between two officials, the Director of Public Service and the Minister of Culture, to the exchange of arguments, to finance the Public Service. What was lacking in this discussion is the way public service will finance itself with this state subsidy of four billion dinars. I have a concrete proposal that I would like to share with the Ministry of Culture, but also with all of you. You will see that this proposal is easy to implement, very practical. Therefore, it concerns the four billion additional subscription mechanism for the public service to function uninterruptedly and thus to have an independent role that belongs to it. With this proposal, I am putting a special accent on the possible disbursement of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The proposal takes care of another important aspect, which is the drastically reduced wage power of Serbian citizens. Realisation of the current situation suggests that at the moment, it is a major expenditure and a significant blow to the budget, that they spend 500 dinars per month on the functioning of the public service. In 2016, the decision of the State to partially finance RTS and RTS with four billion dinars is rational and represents a sign of responsibility and respect for the Public Service. In the long term, such funding is unsustainable, with the fact that four billion more dinars must be provided from the subscription, and the subscription mechanism has not yet been formulated, and I have to underline that the deadline for setting up an effective payment expires in 15 days. My proposal is that the public service subscription be linked to the postpaid mobile phone accounts with 50 dinars per month. This could raise more than 2.5 billion dinars on an annual basis, of over 4.3 million postpaid numbers. In addition, I suggest that public service fees be tied to cable TV and internet bills, also in the amount of 50 dinars. Annual income for RTS and RTS this way would reach four billion. This fee for public service has far more logic than binding to electricity bills. Today, developing new media and technology users of the Public Service use the opportunity to monitor RTS and RTV content and via cable operators on the Internet and through 3G and 4G mobile phone networks. I will now extend my proposal with the idea that the budget financing of the public service should be completely abolished over a period of four years. Over a period of four years, from 2017 to 2020, budget financing would be reduced by a billion dinars per year to completely disappear from the 2021 budget. At the same time, in the same period, bills for postpaid and cable services would increase by 30 dinars each year. In 2018, the subscription would be 80 dinars per month, in 2019, 110 dinars, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43042	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43043	This increase per month is less than one parking hour that citizens pay for parking service.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43044	Time, Mr. Dragoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43045	Let me finish, please. This would gradually reach a sum of nearly eight billion dinars needed to finance public services and ensure their independent financing. This succesive increase in the subscription for a relatively modest amount would allow the full taking full account of the public interest and interest of public services, as well as the interest of citizens. Thanks for the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43046	Thank you, Mr. Dragoevich. The word has an authorised representative of the SNS, MP Milan Novakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43047	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, today I will ask three questions. We are witnessing the privatisation process carried out by the former Governments of the Republic of Serbia in the period 2000 to 2012, many of which are broken up, many of which are linked to organised crime, where we have court proceedings in progress, and some, unfortunately, are not even beginning. In many privatisations, which in a legal way, which is not legal, we are witnessing that certain companies, which are domestic, are those who are the founders of foreign companies, and do business as domestic ones, came into possession of certain areas of agricultural land in the area of the AP Vojvodina. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Economy, which are private companies that became owners of agricultural land in the privatisation process, and how many hectares are now owned in the AP Vojvodina area by 2012? Second question. The renting of state agricultural land since 2006 in the AP Vojvodina has been followed by various irregularities in certain local self-governments, somewhere out of ignorance, somewhere with the intention of allowing individuals a privileged position, and at the expense of the state, the AP Vojvodina and local self-government. Thus, certain local self-governments did not even bring out programmes for the issuing of state-owned agricultural land to lease in the area of the AP Vojvodina. My question is addressed to the Government of the Army of Vojvodina and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection - why is the competent authority for the agriculture of the AP Vojvodina not in accordance with the Agricultural Land Act, Article 64(6), carried out the procedure of granting state agricultural land in municipalities that did not do so? Third question. We are aware of the great shortcomings of the current agricultural land law, its abuses in the part of the issue of state agricultural land in certain local self-governments. Many agricultural producers have also complained to us, the MPs of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, about various irregularities in the renting of land. In particular, they pointed out that some individuals, in a non-transparent way, had been reaching certain areas for years, usually at the expense of smaller agricultural producers. The most common forms were the uptake of land, both by individuals and by some legal entities. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, Environmental Protection – Please provide us, the MPs, who are usurperers of state agricultural land in the area of the AP Vojvodina, legal and natural persons, which the size of the area is usurped and how much financial amount is required of them. Unfortunately, some of these individuals who abuse the applicable law, which we have information from local self-government, are headed by protests these days and against the proposal for a new Agricultural Land Act, which provides for stricter penalties and prevents them from abuseing state agricultural land in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43048	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Kovacevic, Zoran Zivkovic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Sinisa Maksimović, Djordje Cabarkapa and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 10 of the agenda: Proposal for a law on enforcement and security; Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Public Note; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Judges; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Supreme Council of the Court; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors; Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Law on the Justice of the Court of Justice; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes and a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutually Protection of the Republic of Poland. According to Article 90(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice with the cabinet members. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and unique search of the points I have stated. Does the Proposer's representative, Nikola Selakovic, the minister of justice, want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister, Mr Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43049	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a set of laws in the field of justice, amongst the first to come before you today is the draft law on enforcement and security, and allow me to begin my address by just explaining this bill. In 1978, the first post-war Yugoslav Law on Executive Procedure was adopted, which was recycled, but in a largely shortened law on enforcement and security from 1930. Of course, the Law of Executive Procedure was summed up by the spirit of time in which it was created and the purpose to serve, which is to reflect the system, so-called. "Socialist self-management". Viewed as an act of our legal civilization by its solutions, systems and techniques, it was mediocre. It certainly lags behind the Law on Liaison Relations, the Law on Inheritance and other laws written by Professor Michael Konstantinovic, as well as Bozidar S. Markovic and other greats of our legal thoughts. The basic legal-political objection to the critical public was that the law contained too much legal means to suit the debtor and thus, as if it were trying not to be implemented at all. However, such a law is based on rich court practice, and it taught generations of judges, lawyers, and other lawyers. When time passed for social property and self-government, it was decided to remove the weaknesses of the 1978 law. First, the Law on Executive Procedure in 2000 was passed, then the Law on Executive Procedure since 2004, and then the Law on Implementation and Security from 2011. They had the same tendency, which said – to speed up the process and move the claus from protecting the interests of the debtors to protect the interests of the creditors. All of this was subordinated, systemically, structurally and functionally, to the executive procedure of the law are dealt with as by accident and recklessly. They are intransparent, they contain contradictory norms, the formulations are often rhogobat and vague, there is no logical bond between them. It is sometimes difficult to understand whether a certain provision was created as a result of the intention of the law writer or as an editorial error due to reckless lawmaking. At least in a dogmatic, legal sense, viewed as logical formations lag behind the 1978 Executive Procedure Act. They offer to speed up an executive process that is more likely to occur than can be seen and cause confusion. The problem is that the new implementing laws only speeds up mechanically first. Instead of being studied, the essence of the process, what makes its functional connections and careful change of substance speeds up the process, the process is seen as a more or less mechanical trail of process actions between which there are no connections. Thereafter, some stages of the process are simply abandoned and some institutes are removed and the process is both shortened and accelerated. But the amputation is problematic, because the amputated part of the process appears again only in another way and by another name, it grows back, but now not some way wild, unregulated by law, not based on law. For example, it is concluded that executive debtors abuse the delay of execution and seek it for tactical, not real reasons, and that courts often go without reason to meet them. There are two possible changes. First, to set strict conditions for disposal and make clear that the delay is an exception, and precise formulations avoid the possibility of widely interpreting the reasons for the postponement. The second time is to simply abolish and abandon the executive procedure. The 2011 law on enforcement and security chose this second and abolished the delay of execution, but it did not cancel, nor could it lift the possibility of creating a reason for the postponement in practice. Today, the courts literally stop with the procedure of execution whenever they think there is a reason for what was previously called a delay, and when they consider that there are reasons for a delay, they only know themselves. So in practice, the Institute of Delays has come back, but this time so to speak wildly and silently. There are no reasons why delay is possible. You don't know how long it can last. The postponement shall not be subject to any judicial act, and the Executive Trustee shall have nothing to object to or appeal and shall attempt to reverse the course of the proceedings. When there is no norm everything is in practice and at least theoretically anyone can do what he wants. The law on enforcement and security since 2011, prohibits art in the executive procedure, as it slows it down. Now the courts, when necessary, are hiring the so-called so-called. professional faces to warlocks. There are far too many such examples that our enforcement laws would be well evaluated. The reasons for the dispute of the procedure remain to live, in a different name and in another form, and the confidential and debtor public is increasingly unsatisfactory and angry. As they cease to exist on the one hand, there are no institutions that have guaranteed balance, on the other hand, more significant accelerations in the process, and when there are, they are based on legal shortcuts that create severe dissatisfaction with the other side. Great expectations of the new law prove to be unwarranted. The law is changing again to speed up the process, but again in the same way mechanically. After a while, it has disappointed both sides and creditors and debtors again, and is considering a new law. In doing so, the creditors demand to retain the speeding up of the previous law, and the process is even more rapid, the debtors to return to them the procedural rights they had in earlier laws and which they consider inalienable. That way we can go all the way. The law on enforcement and security since 2011 is the weakest of the laws passed after 2000. It is full of serious shortcomings that make it impossible to see the executive procedure uniformly and legally. What kind of legality can be spoken of when it is unfairly due to unclear norms and a multitude of indiscriminateness and voids and does not know what the law says in a specific case. All this is so much more dangerous if it introduces a new judicial profession, an executive’s profession, and does not specifically distinguish the jurisdiction of courts and perpetrators. The applicable law declared a useful principle that enforcement not only technically, but also to make decisions. But that raised the question when a decision was taken by the court and by the perpetrators. There's been a confusion in jurisdiction and mistreatment of courts even from the area of the same higher court. The perpetrators act in an unequal way. Decisions taken in the area of one basic court by courts shall be taken by the perpetrators in the area of the second basic court. Since the procedural control of courts and executioners is virtually non-existent, there is no instrument for equating the practices of courts and public enforcement. The courts, weary after years of change, are retreating before the perpetrators who take and what is not theirs after more serious law reading. It's hard to talk about law enforcement, because very often you don't know what the law contains. For example, the 2011 Implementation and Security Act says that a solution setting out the temporary measure has a legal fact of a judicial solution to the execution, although it provides for an objection against the solution. It is necessary to reject the confidential ideology that the speed of enforcement is exclusively a criterion of the validity of the law, but also of the debt ideology that they are weaker and that they should be provided with as much protection as possible. The enforcement procedure is most often initiated as the legal case is indisputablely decided in a judicial or other court procedure and the debtor is obliged to give, act, inaction or to suffer. The most important part of the exercise of the trustee's right remains behind us at the time when the executive procedure is initiated. But neither is a judicial litigatory decision of sanctity, nor is the executive procedure a deleted space that needs to be moved by a smooth step. First, after the judicial decision, facts can arise that put its legal force at risk or denied, and then there are a number of issues stemming from the very internal nature of the procedure, its specificities and authenticity. The thought often heard by the confidants that a difficult and slow course of litigation has already been passed and that the executive procedure should therefore prevent the reopening of litigation issues in the form of complaints or complaints against enforcement solutions, which is the most common argument against the appeal or objection to the execution solution, simply does not stand and hide the essence of the problem, and that is the question of how to Pacific the facts that arise, which arise after the legality of the executive document, which compromise it. Therefore, the appeal or appeal raises questions that are new, which first appear, which no one has resolved, and which depend on the need to enforce the trustee's claim. The way to address the autonomous issues arising from the executive procedure should then be considered. In principle, they can be divided into two continents: questions that are technical in nature and issues that can create a dispute between parties. These latter must be covered by the arbitration of the third and legal means. It is the fate of the executive procedure that there is a constant conflict between the performance and speed requirements and the lawfulness of the procedure. Achieving legality is not imagined without supervisory instruments. Control threatens to return to the previous part of the process, so those who are only reluctant to view it until the speed of the procedure. On the other hand, those who feel dissatisfaction with the progress of the executive process would constantly question its course. The executive procedure must seek to balance between speed and legality, and this calming, in principle, uncompromising categories, is always the most difficult task of the legislator. The legislator must also decide on the form of supervision, i.e. whether he will be procedural or extracurricular. The procedural supervision takes place during the procedure and has consequences for the enforcement procedure itself. The extra-processive surveillance takes place mainly after the executive procedure and has no impact on the procedure and, in its nature, consists of disciplinary supervision. The procedural supervision can be divided into several species, and the most important division is the complaint which is being resolved by the same court and which has also been decided by the court which is directly superior to the court which has taken the decision. The advantage of the objection is that the procedure is faster, because it takes place within the same court, and the weakness that its scope comes down in principle only to a concrete legal matter. The advantage of the complaint is that it is resolved by a higher court than the one who has made the contested decision, which is in principle broader than the complaint, and similar to that of the levelling of the practice of the lower courts, and the weakness is that the appeal proceedings are slower than the proceedings under appeal. As you can see, legal medicines are divided into those faster and slower. The current law since 2011, contains procedural and extra-processive surveillance instruments. Objection as a procedural instrument and the disciplinary responsibility of the perpetrator as an extracurricular. Of course, other laws regulate the disciplinary responsibility of judges and judicial assistants. The conditions under which an objection can be made are not clear enough, and the appeal is forbidden. The complaint is resolved by more than three judges, even when it has brought about a solution that is being attacked by the objection. Since the first-degree executive procedure is conducted by the primary and business courts who decide and object, the decision-making authority is concentrated in the hands of only one court, both the first and the last word is on it. Higher courts, the commercial court of appeal do not have jurisdiction in the executive procedure, do not have the possibility to interfere with decisions of basic and commercial courts. An important solution that sets out a complete ban on appeal, above all, is potentially corrupt, as it is easier to corrupt one rather than two courts, it is easier to make the desired decision of four judges of the same court, than of four judges of which one is lower, and three in a higher court. Secondly, it wide opens the door to the unequal conduct of basic and commercial courts, as there is no one to even the case law. It is seriously unfavourable for legal certainty, so before the unequal treatment, in principle of connected courts, is passed on to the perpetrators. An executor acting in the field of a basic court shall follow his practice. The appeal is resolved by judges who are more experienced and more rank than judges who resolve by appeal. The appeal is not only obtained at equating the case law, but also at the validity of the law. The bill re-introduces the appeal, and the objection remains. The complaint is intended as an instrument of strengthening the legality and uniformity of the practice of the courts, so it is only extremely envisaged, and only against those decisions of the court and in one case the solutions of the perpetrators which have the most important consequences of the enforcement or security procedure. Against the solution made on a proposal to execute on the basis of an executive document, against a decision to suspend the executive procedure, this is an appeal which goes in favour or in favour of the trustee, as the procedure is always suspended in favour of the debtor, a solution to the motion to counter the execution of the proposal for security and a solution to suspend the security procedure. The appeal is not preceded by an objection. It is directly declared for a first-degree decision, while no appeal can be made to the solution made. For example, the solution to the execution is rebutted by a direct appeal, not by a complaint, and by appeal of a solution made by appeal. The decision to suspend the proceedings cannot be objected to, but only immediately appeal. The exception is the procedure under appeal for enforcement on the basis of a credible instrument which is first refuted by an objection, and the complaint can be made to the solution made after the complaint. The reason for this deviation for establishing a chronological and logical order, which first follows the complaint, and then the complaint, lies in the fact that the proposal for execution here is primarily based, not on public, but on a private document. Private documents have less evidence power than public documents, and therefore it is logical that enforcement should only be carried out after the evidence value of the private document has been carefully examined. The question arises whether the appeal will slow down the course of the executive procedure? The mathematically speaking, yes. It takes some time for the first-degree court to move the files to the second-degree court and the time for them to return to the first-degree court. Time is a measurable, exact category. She's the only but inconclusive evidence of the opponent's complaint. However, the speed of the procedure is not the only value to be protected in the executive procedure, and what values are both legality and legal certainty. It builds a legal state, a balance and peace in the legal system and the lives of people, but these values are not measurable, they can't see their eyes, they escape their senses. That's why they're suitable for demeaning and sarcasm, until their absence hits us personally. Those whose speed is almost the only value of the executive procedure shall swear to legality and be insecure when their personal interest is threatened or injured. Speed can be biased, legality cannot be biased. The appeal should affect the reduction of certainty and tension in the first-degree procedure, the creation of a stalking path in things where different opinions exist, as well as the unification of the practices of the perpetrators. Equality of court practice facilitates court proceedings and shortens proceedings before them, routineises first-degree proceedings and potentially reduces complaints when it is quite clear that they, in view of the practice of second-degree courts, have no chance of success, and this also affects the reduction of proceedings. The appeal shall always be made to the court's decision, unless the law expressly provides that the court's solution is contested by the appeal, and only when the executioner suspends the enforcement procedure. Appealal reasons are widely set aside from those stemming from the subsequent application of the Law on Prosecution. The specific reasons appropriate to the enforcement procedure are listed more comprehensively than in the applicable law. It has been noted that the extensive indication of the grounds of appeal favours the abuse of the estimated debtors. It's a logical mistake. As soon as he has the right to appeal, the debtor can abuse a procedural authority, even if there is only one cause of appeal. The appeal itself is a potential source of abuse, and the appeal reasons can't be, but the possible source of abuse is not enough reason for the appeal to be gone. With the same argument by the 2011 lawmakers, they could leave out the law's objection, and property could be misused, so modern legislators didn't think to lift it. In return, the draft law contains corrective measures that prevent the complaint from becoming an instrument of abuse or functional slowdown of proceedings. It does not, in principle, delay the execution of a solution against which it has been declared, stop the course of the proceedings. Compared with the decision on the appeal, execution or security continues. The bill further stipulates that the appeal, but also the objection, against one solution, can only be declared once. This stems from a standard under which the court, by resolving a complaint or complaint, cannot lift the first-degree solution and return the case to a re-determination. The court which resolves the appeal or appeal shall have a first-degree solution to modify, confirm or terminate. There are no other options. The second-degree court is not allowed to abolish the first-degree settlement and return the case to the first-degree court for a re-determination after which a new first-degree decision on the execution of the debtor would be entitled to a new appeal and thus theoretically to the indefinite. The principle of legality of these shall be sacrificed in favour of the economic and efficiency of the executive procedure. Requesting the determination of the courts to decide on a complaint or complaint. In a civil court procedure in Serbia, an unlimited statement of appeal has already been disabled. The law on litigation does not allow a second-degree court to suspend a first-degree decision and refer the case to a first-degree court for retrial. The creators of the bill just took over an institute that already exists in our law and adapted it to the executive procedure. In its 2011 law, he abolished the appeal, but did not prevent the opposition from declaring an unlimited route, since the court that resolves the objection does not prevent it from abolishing the solution and re-determining the case, holding on to the possibility that so-called ping-pong effects. The appeal procedure, but only against the solutions to be taken on the proposal for enforcement on the basis of an executive document, speeds up the norm which eliminates the existence of so-called ‘execution’ in the appeal procedure. Absolutely essential injuries to the procedure. Absolutely significant infringements of the procedure are listed in the Law on litigation, and in the executive procedure they are applied through the principle that in the enforcement and security proceedings the Law on litigation is applied accordingly. Absolutely significant injuries to the process differ from so-called. relatively significant infringements by the fact that they are listed in the law, which is subject to official duty by the court and that the first-degree decision must be abolished when there is an absolute material injury, regardless of whether it has really affected the legality of the first-degree decision. Relatively significant injuries characterize the court's obligation to examine in each particular case whether the infringement affected the legality of the decision. The question has been raised whether, in the appeal proceedings against the solutions brought by the court about the execution on the basis of an executive document, there is room for absolutely significant infringements of the procedure. The implementation decision is based on the principle of strict formal legality, i.e. formal legal evaluations of evidence. It can only be adopted if the proposal for enforcement is supported by precise evidence, by an executive order. It is up to the judge to examine the compatibility of the claim in the executive order and the proposal for enforcement, and if the claims are in line to make a decision on the execution. The judge is not free. He must not move past the allegations in the executive order, he does not apply to the principle of free assessment of evidence. Therefore, in the appeal procedure against the solution made for the application for enforcement on the basis of the executive document, absolute significant infringements of the procedure shall be abolished. It is in the second-degree court to examine whether the injury mentioned in the complaint was absolutely important indeed affecting the legality of the solution. It is not an inconceivable assumption that an absolutely significant injury caused the illegality of the solution. An important law since 2011, has introduced perpetrators into Serbia's enforcement system. The enforcement procedure shall be divided into two stages, at the stage of the decision-making phase of the proposal for enforcement on the basis of an executive or credible document and on the stage of enforcement. The decision on the case for enforcement shall be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the court. The exception is so-called. municipal items, when a proposal for enforcement is decided by the perpetrators. Courts and public perpetrators shall be responsible for the execution of the execution. The system is called mixed, since it allows execution on the same case and by the same means of execution to be carried out both by the court and by the perpetrator, according to the choice of creditors. For example, in one case, a court is responsible for carrying out a cash claim on immovable property, if the trustee so wishes, in the other case the perpetrator, as the trustee wishes. An important law since 2011, however, has not arranged a process path by which the executioner acquires the authority to carry out the execution, nor when it starts to implement the execution. It is not clear whether it is possible for the trustee to change the executioner by determining the executioner instead of the court, or by setting up another executioner instead. The absence of a legal answer to the question whether, by the will of the trustee, the perpetrator may assume from the court the jurisdiction to execute the so-called “execution”. Communal cases, it forced the Supreme Cassation Court to conclude that this is not possible. The result is that there are many so-called today. municipal cases which are located in courts which have not been taken over by the perpetrators, which is responsible for the slowness of the applicable law in the execution of municipal cases and for delays. The applicable law did not consider the consequences of becoming competent perpetrators. Because since the perpetrators also begin to carry out the execution, after they have taken over the files, there is a need for some solutions to be made in the executive procedure or the security procedure. A third person, for example, says an objection to the inadmissibility of execution. The procedure should be suspended, etc. Who's in charge of making those decisions? Court or perpetrators? If it's a court of law, what court is it? There's no system general response to that. It appears from the applicable law that the court is in charge of making solutions that the need arises during the enforcement phase of the enforcement. But it's hard to conclude which court is the local authority. The problem is best seen in one case, let's say Court A makes a solution to the execution of the mobile matters of the executive debtor located in the area of that court. The perpetrator chosen by the trustee to carry out the performance of the inventory of movable things and finds that they are not enough to settle the trustee, so change the means and object of execution and start the execution by selling the immovable property located in Area B. At the same time, the third party objected that the execution of the immovable property was not allowed by claiming that its immovableity was established and not by debtors. Under the applicable decision-making law on this objection, the court is always in charge, but the question is, which court? The Court of Justice of A who has reached a solution to the execution or Court of Justice B on whose territory is the immovableity? The case-law as far as we know, it takes it to be a competent court that has reached a solution to the execution. The same dilemma exists when the court is competent to carry out the execution, and the courts that have reached a solution to the execution and the court that executes the execution differ. First, the bill abolishes the so-called law. the parallel jurisdiction of the court and the executioner. The courts shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to carry out joint sales of immovable property, to carry out documents which shall include the making, inaction or suffering and executive documents relating to family relations and the return of employees to work. It is a matter of executions which are not so common for the largest dominant number of other executions that become exclusively competent public enforcement officers to become the sole competent public enforcer. Their jurisdiction has been significantly increased, the courts are disbursed and obtained at the speed of the executive procedure. The perpetrators have stronger personal and technical potentials than the courts that are exhausted by a period called "reform", although reform is something that always lasts in civilised democratic society, and the motive for the quick work of the perpetrators is to obtain rewards and benefits, therefore profits. The motive is consistent with modern times, but it can also seduce and lead to illegality and corruption. The next question is: Who brings forth the solutions for which the need arises during the execution by the executioner? The draft law provides that they are to be passed by an enforcer, not by a court, as in the applicable law, and thus extends the jurisdiction of the perpetrator. Decisions concerning the third party’s objection to the non-authorisation of enforcement, the motion to postpone and execute, to suspend the proceedings, to suspend the execution, to contest the application, etc. shall be brought by the executing authority whenever it implements the execution. This results in a concentration of procedural construction, economy and acceleration of proceedings, as the files do not go to court for the court to reach a solution. There are only a few solutions to which the court is responsible and when the execution is carried out by the executioner. In the middle are the solutions to the payment of fines, the solution to the replacement of fines to prison and the solution to the request for the exemption of the executioner. The first two solutions are brought by the court because of their penal nature and the consequences they can have for their property, including freedom of the person. The third solution to the request for exemption shall be brought by the Court of Justice, as it is not possible for the perpetrator to decide on his own exemption. For the adoption of a solution on the imposition of fines, the replacement of fines in the measure of imprisonment and the solution to the request for the exemption of the public enforcement officer is a local court which has reached a solution to the execution. The resolution is logically imposed, but it's also rational. It is logically imposed in the light of the fact that, apart from the court which has reached its decision to execute the procedure, no other court that could be involved in the proceedings is a figure of any other court. It is rational because it favours speeding up the executive procedure as the executioner implements an enforcement solution for which the area is appointed and with which it is most commonly known in practice. This is the enforcer and the nearest court, and therefore the court decision-making procedure for the solutions that only a court can make when executed by an executioner will not last long. In order to achieve the concentration of the process building and to gain the economics of the proceedings, the perpetrators are authorised to make decisions on all issues on which the solution is brought, which occur during the execution. That, as well as the exceptions to that rule, was just the word. An objection to the solution taken by the executing party shall be allowed to be settled by the court as a means of protecting a party which is not satisfied with the solution. The objection against a public enforcement officer's solution directly has the importance of procedural judicial oversight of the work of an enforcer which does not exist under the applicable law. The rule of law is also distinguished from other types of state and revolutionary dictatorships by not trusting anyone in a word, but by defining a legal framework in which everyone must act. In objecting to the executioner's solution, the court shall decide on a solution to the execution. The court is closest to the executioner, which is economically and particularly not prolonging the procedure. Yet one problem arises which is principled nature, the problem of the silence of the perpetrators. Let us assume that the debtor proposes to postpone the execution carried out by the perpetrator, and the executioner continues and does not decide on the proposal of the debtor, since there is no solution for the executioner, the debtor cannot object to the court. The draft law then allows the application for the removal of irregularities in enforcement to be requested, thereby requesting a decision on the proposal. If the silence of the perpetrators continues five days after the proposal has been submitted, the debtor shall have the right to object to the court and to request that the court make a decision on the proposal for enforcement. The same regime shall also apply if the court fails to reach a solution or conclusion in the implementation phase within the time limit set by the draft law. That solves the problem, so-called. the silence of courts and perpetrators during the execution, and the initiative leaves the parties most interested in making a decision on their proposal. In several cases, enforcement is solely a jurisdictional court, which logically leads to the Court’s decision and makes all the solutions for which the need arises at that stage of the proceedings. Against these solutions, the court is allowed to object to which it resolves more than three judges. Since the same solutions are made when executed by the executing officer by objecting to a major court of three judges, the proposal for a law introduces symmetry in the decision on legal remedies in the course of enforcement. Finally, the dilemma which is not resolved by the applicable law of 2011 reads - which court is competent to reach a solution when the court which has reached a decision on the execution and the court implementing the execution is not the same. The bill decided to be an execution court because it contained case files and to prevent the so-called “execution. ” moving the file from the court to a court that has reached a solution to the execution. The bill contains a large number of provisions. Lapidarity has been sacrificed by causes, they'd call it lawyers. One clear and exhaustive law must stop the collapse of our legislation on the executive procedure and the creation of confusing, contradictory and non-applicable legal texts. One of the important intentions of the authors of the bill was to make clear, precise and unequivocal provisions and to regulate issues that caused fluctuations in the practice of courts and executioners, in particular to include a general part of the draft law that precedes the rules on enforcement in certain cases and means and in the position of the enforcers and which applies independently of the means and subject-matter of enforcement. This general section has shown that practice is more rarely changed if it is firmly placed and valid than other parts of the law. The means and objects of execution are updated, and the position of the perpetrator may vary depending on the state of society and the judiciary. The idea is that a solid and systematic, logically well-connected and fundamental general part should be the basis for any subsequent changes to our executive procedure in the domain of the means and objects of execution, but also in the domain of the position of the perpetrator. The same, otherwise caususistic manner of keeping and in editing the position of the notified perpetrators and the means of the course of execution. The point is to understand the position of the executioner is best achieved if their procedural position is precisely determined. Their appointment and operation and termination of the performance of the perpetrators, the supervision of their work, the disciplinary procedure and the authorities of the Chamber of Executive shall be regulated accordingly. The perpetrators have been renamed public executioners. This isn't about mere weather change. While the current 2011 law leaves a dilemma as to whether the enforcer is a trustee or something else, the bill provides that the public enforcer does not act in any way in the interest of law enforcement and that he also cares about the interests of the debtor and not only the interests of the trustee. He acts in the public interest. As a result, its disciplinary responsibility has been strengthened, and disciplinary injuries are perceived to protect the public interest in implementing and preventing, as far as possible, the illegal movement of public enforcement in favour of creditors who are somewhat and logical because the trustee is the one who chooses and pays him. The firmness, clarity and scope of the bill's proposal is such that it simply needs to make everything applicable to the law, to make it difficult to circumvent legal rules and illegality or self-will. We've been trying to make a regulatory maze out of which there's no way out if the law isn't respected. We may need more than ever to have a law that will apply, balance and stabilise the practice of the executive procedure in Serbia, create a clear state and clean space and the path of some later changes, when the hour comes for them. Because it's kind of natural for laws to change more frequently in transition times than usual, but it's not common for any subsequent law on enforcement to be worse than the one before. I think at least this last legislative practice has come our way and opened the door for some future generations and some better times. The Honorable Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are before you also the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. The basic reason for amending and supplementing the Courts' Law is because of the proposal for a new law on enforcement and security. According to the proposal for a law, decisions on the enforcement procedure and the security procedure are made by basic courts and economic courts, as is the case under the applicable law. According to the applicable law on enforcement and security, the only legal remedy against the first-degree settlement of the basic and commercial court is an objection to the court which has reached a first-degree settlement, resulting in the whole process ending at the level of basic and commercial courts. The important paper provided for by the law on enforcement and security, the truth restrictively, is the return of the complaint in the executive procedure and the security procedure. Since the complaint is a devoluting legal remedy, i.e. that it is decided by senior courts, i.e. an economic and appeals court, depending on who has made the solution which is disproved by appeal. It is therefore necessary to prescribe in the Law governing courts that the appeal against the first-degree decision of the Court of First Instance should be settled by a senior court. Provisions of the draft law amending the actual jurisdiction of the courts in the executive procedure shall take effect at the same time as the new law on enforcement and security. Prior to that, according to the applicable Law on the Regulation of Courts, commercial courts in the first degree execute enforcement decisions on the basis of credible documents, in which the executive trustee and executive debtor are economic operators and determine and implement and ensure the decisions of commercial courts. The decisions of the economic courts are executive documents, but the law neglected that there are also executive documents which are by nature not judgments of the courts. Like, say, a copy from a stock register or a copy from a financial lease register. As well as that commercial courts should also carry out executive documents that are not judicial decisions. The draft law therefore fills this legal gap. By applying the Law on Regulating Courts, it was not prescribed that the procedure for assessing judicial assistants could be brought closer to the law of the sublegal force, but only the criteria for grading, which caused problems in the application of the law. The draft law authorises the High Judicial Council to adopt an act which, in addition to the criteria, lays down criteria and procedures for assessing the work of judicial assistants. Also, the bill empowers the minister of justice to pass an act which determines for each court the number of judicial trainees to be admitted to it, for the simple reason that, regardless of being equal in status and right, in his work and in the scope of the work, not every court is the same. Therefore, we cannot form a single criterion, or criterion for determining this number. There is also a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Registration. Now I would like to introduce to you the most important solutions contained in this bill. Following the one-year application of the Law on Public Registration, certain inaccuracies and contradictions in its provisions have been observed, as well as legal gaps which are generally such as not to leave room for finding any solution in certain situations. In addition, certain provisions of the applicable law have not been brought to life in practice, and their purpose has been raised. On a proposal from the Public Note Chamber, the Ministry of Justice educated a working group that worked on amendments and additions to the Bill of Law. In addition to the existence of the requirement for public notary professions and the need to specify the provisions of the applicable legal text, which are essential for equating the behaviour of public notaries, it should not be ignored that amendments to the law also imposes an Action Plan for the implementation of the national judicial reform strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018, but also the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23, which requires further improvement of the normative framework on the road towards the establishment of an effective and sustainable public notation system, which will also mean, in the near future, continued upgrade of the rules governing public notary activity. It should also be pointed out that part of the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Justice, in line with the programme to improve the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's balance sheet on the conditions of business, the so-called "duing business list", adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 11 December 2015, is just predicting the fulfillment through certain provisions of this bill that we are discussing today. The amendments in Chapter II of Part One of the Public Registration Act, which regulates the organisation of public records, relate to the precision of certain provisions relating to the use of language and letter, to the content of the seals and presses of public notebooks, to the performance of official actions by a public notary outside the public register, to the fulfilment of conditions for the start of work of public notebooks in relation to premises and equipment and to the fulfilment of conditions for the termination of the work of a public notary. The draft law complements Article 22 of the applicable Law on Public Registration, which regulates the start of the exercise of activity, the position according to which, prior to the date of commencement of the exercise of the public notary, the Ministry of Justice shall verify the fulfilment of the conditions relating to premises and technical equipment owned by the Public Note Office. This is because the security of the relevant spatial and technical conditions is a presumption of the smooth performance of the action to be determined in an uncontested and direct manner. In accordance with the opinion of the public notebooks, Article 5. The bill has shifted the age limit for stopping the work of the notebook from 65 to 67 years of age. The amendments in Chapter III of Part I of the Public Note Act, which regulates public notifying entities, relate to the accuracy of the concept of invalidity for the performance of public notifying activity, the setting of a deadline for the application for the appointment of a public notary, the taking of an oath, the content of the registers of public notebooks, the accuracy of the provisions relating to public notebooks and public notary assistants, and the introduction of a new category – public notary associate. Article 9 The draft law applicable to the Law on Public Registration is complemented by Article 30a, which detailed the content of the registers of public notebooks, which is in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, which prescribes that the processing of personality data can only be regulated by law. The applicable law provides for six categories of public service entities. However, the applicable law does not regulate the question of what status in the public notary business can be carried out by persons who have completed their traineeship and who do not have a tendency to progress further through the establishment of a hierarchy to the possible status of a public notary. That question is being regulated and a new category of entities is being introduced, under the name – public notifiers, and business that they can do is being determined. Amendments to Chapter IV of the First Part of the Public Note Act, which regulates public notifying activity, relate to the denial of the taking of public records: the exemption of a public notary, the duty to keep a public notary secret, the compensation of damages, the determination of detention of a public notary, the assembly of public notary documents, the content and execution of public records, the public records, the confirmation of the translation and the decisions of the managing body of the legal entity and the restriction in the conduct of entrusted transactions. Exception of a public notary, the duty to keep a public notary secret, the compensation of damages, the determination of detention of a public notary, the assembly of public records, the content and execution of public records, the public records, the certification of translations and decisions of the managing body of the legal entity and the restriction in the performance of confidential transactions. The draft law amends Article 53 of the applicable Law by extending the cases in which the public notebook is required to refuse to perform the requested official action. In the case of a doubt of the existence of a serious and free will of a party for the conclusion of a particular business, the Member of the law concerned adds a particular reason for the mandatory denial of the action. This is because the public register, when making up public records, is obliged to examine and determine the existence of a real, free and serious will to take legal action with the parties, and where it is not possible to uncontest it, there is no need to engage in further work. A significant amendment is made to Article 86 of the applicable law which provides for two acts which are necessarily made up in the form of a public record, which are the minutes from the founding and other assembly of a company holding more than 100 shareholders, as well as the minutes from the session of another company body, when that body, in accordance with the law governing companies and the general act of that company, decides on issues from the jurisdiction of the Assembly of the Society. The draft law introduces, instead of the prescribed obligation, the optional possibility of forming these acts in the form in question. In particular, there is currently a conflict between the Law on Public Records and the Company Act, which, in practice, has an inequality in respect of this provision by the companies concerned, which is removed by the draft law. Another material-legal reason that justifies the introduction of a optional option instead of the current mandatory form of the public record, is the fact that the form of the minutes is entirely irrelevant to the fullness of the decisions entered in the minutes. The draft law amends Article 98. The Law on Public Records, by entrusting jobs instead of the current exclusive negative determination through a restriction in the performance of them, by adding a positive provision is specified, and by introducing a dissociative proposal by the party in a non-partisan procedure to entrust the procedure to the public notary, as well as a time limit within which the court is required to decide on such a proposal. In Chapter 5 of the first part of the Law, which regulates public notebooks and records, certain provisions relating to the keeping of books, the contribution of a public notary document, the issuance of corrections and copying of a public notary document and the keeping of certain types of public documents are specified. In the first part of Part Two of the Law on Public Registration, which governs the chamber of public notebooks and its organs, amendments have been made to the work of the chamber and the jurisdiction of the chamber authorities. The draft law amended Article 119 of paragraph 2 of the applicable Law by deleting the power of the decision-making chamber on the party's appeal to refuse the public notary to constitute a public note. As one of the public authorities entrusted to this authority, since the legal remedy against solutions by a public notary which refuses to perform an official operation, including the refusal to make up a document, is an intended objection decided by the competent court, in whose territory the official seat of the handling public register is located. In addition, the draft law extends the normative competence of the Chamber Assembly to the adoption of the Code of Ethics of the Public Note, and the powers of the chamber authorities in the disciplinary procedure in relation to the new competences of the Ministry of Justice in this procedure, which are provided for in the draft law, have been amended. In the second, second part of the Law, which regulates the award for the work of a public notary and the cost reward, the provisions relating to the maturity of the prize and the fees, the payment of the prize and the costs in the case of a public notary acting as trustee and the control of the payment of fees, fees and fees. In the part of the law relating to the submission of a public record examination, amendments have been made in respect of the composition of the examination committee, so that at least one of the members of the examination committee must be of the order of the public notaries, and the records of persons who passed the public record have also been prescribed. The most significant amendments to the applicable Public Registration Act relate to the exercise of supervision of the exercise of public record activity and disciplinary responsibility. The role of the supervisory authority is, according to the proposed solution, divided between the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber, in the sense that material financial and organisational technical aspects of public service enforcement are subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Justice and professional aspects of the control carried out by the Chamber. Regular and emergency control of the chamber shall be introduced, detailing the powers of both supervisory authorities. On this occasion, I will also point out that Serbia's Public Note Chamber organised a regional conference of public notaries held in October of the current year in Belgrade with the aim of exchanging knowledge and experience in the exercise of supervision and control of the work of public notebooks with special reference to the supervision of public notebooks by the Ministry of Justice, the Court and the Public Note Chamber. In line with the conclusions of the conference attended by both the President of the International Union of Notaries and the President of the Council of Notaries of the EU, a change has been made in terms of improving the supervision of the work of public notebooks. The bill extends the cycle of disciplinary infringements, i.e. disciplinary offenses. For objective and impartial assessment of disciplinary injuries, the ministry is foreseen as a disciplinary body. The Disciplinary Commission of the Ministry of Justice is a second-degree disciplinary body. In the case of a temporary distribution of a public notary, the amendments have been made, since no distinction is made in the current solution between mandatory and optional distances with regard to decision-making competences and, therefore, the power to decide on mandatory distances to the entrusted justice minister, with an extended circle of reasons which require the adoption of this decision. It is also foreseen that the appeal of a decision on the temporary distance of a public notary does not have a suspension fact which enables the immediate exclusion of a public notary from carrying out its activity and prevents further irregularities. You also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on judicial fees. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes came first because of the need to respect the circumstances for the implementation of today's law on enforcement and security from 2011 and courts and perpetrators. The tendency in our executive law, which is also provided for by the draft law on enforcement and security, is to abolish the mixed and parallel jurisdiction of courts and enforcement officers and to only enforcers or courts become competent to execute on appropriate cases or to apply appropriate means of enforcement. The question arises whether the existing system of court fees in the executive procedure is sustainable or should reduce the fees paid to the court in cases where enforcement is carried out by the executing authority. In addition, the forced collection of court taxis does not satisfy anything. It is effective when fees are charged by legal persons and companies, when the payment takes place through banks held by taxpayers and NBS, however, forced payment when the taxable person is not an effective person. That is why the jurisdiction for the forced payment of the fee to be paid by natural persons is changed and entrusted to public enforcement authorities by this law. The bill changed the amount of value in which taxes can be paid with taxes from thousands of dinars to 5,000 dinars. A rule has been laid to pay up to 5,000 dinars of tax, but it does not have to pay in court tax marks, but that over 5,000 dinars are paid exclusively in cash. If the National Assembly also adopts the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, it is planned that, since March 2016, in use in our courts, but also in public prosecutors, judicial fees are returned. Article 2 of the draft law, the parties to the out-of-party procedure are exempt from paying the fees for actions and procedures entrusted by the court to the public register. This reduces the costs of procedures which go on the burden of the party and prevents them from paying double costs and court fees and compensation to the public notary. In Article 3 of the Bill's proposal, a new system is proposed for the forced execution of taxi charges, i.e. the forced execution of taxis that do not voluntarily pay natural persons as taxpayers. The court only obliges a natural person to pay a fee and a penalty fee within five days. In that solution, they do not determine the means and the subject matter of execution. The decision of the court shall be delivered to the executor who delivers it to the natural person as a taxable obligor and shall wait five days to elapse from the receipt of the decision delivered by the court to the natural person as a taxable person to pay a fee and a penalty fee voluntarily. After the failure of the time limit for voluntary payment, the executioner shall begin to enforce the enforcement and application of the provisions of the law on enforcement and security. The taxable obligor shall be able to submit a regular legal remedy against the court's decision on the execution that does not delay the execution of the solution, the enforcement officer implementing the enforcement decision shall be designated by the President of the Court. The means resulting from the payment of the court fee and the penalty fee shall be paid by the perpetrator to the account prescribed for the payment of the court fees. The court does not pay the executioner an advance, but in return, the perpetrator is authorised to keep 10% of the fees and penalty fees charged to himself. The change in the way in which court taxis are forced to be charged, whose bonds are natural persons, imposed the change and the way in which more fees are paid. At the request of a refund, the court decides to settle the legal matter, in the first degree, which resolves the request for return of a taxi. If it adopts the request, the court shall deliver its ruling to the Treasury for the purpose of implementing the solution. The change in the whole way, i.e. the emergency payment mechanism of court fees which were not voluntarily paid was forced by the fact that over a number of years ago, and according to data from the functional analysis of Serbia's judiciary conducted by the World Bank, Serbia is never charged more than 40% of the amount of court fees charged annually. So 60% of court fees that are not voluntarily paid are usually never paid, because the tax administration, which is in force by law, is responsible for the enforcement of forced enforcement, does not usually do the job, since it is about, for her, small amounts. The law of large numbers will conclude that this is serious money. It is serious money to equip our courts, our public prosecutors, to create significantly better conditions for work, judicial officers among them 77.6% or a total of 8.583 people in Serbia receive a lower salary of 30,000 dinars, and one third of them receives a lower salary of 25,000. The draft law amended the procedure authorising persons to sell tax marks and the procedure in which the authorisation for sale and confiscation is granted. The retail sales of tax marks are made by the company's economy and other legal entities, which is the solution that exists now. However, to companies and other legal entities, powers to sell tax marks in the future will be given by the government on a proposal from the minister of justice. Also, the power to sell tax marks is taken by the government on a reasoned proposal from the minister. In Article 9 of the Law, heading one is amended in which it relates to the fees paid by the parties for certain, above all, initial acts in the executive procedure. The new content of this law is seen in the fact that when the execution is carried out by the executing party, only a third of the fees paid by the court for the relevant act in the litigation procedure shall be paid. The tax is therefore reduced every time the execution is carried out by the executioner, not by the court. Namely, when the execution is carried out by the executioner of all the executives, he takes over. Nevertheless, he makes some important decisions in the execution process. The role of the court in this case is merely to adopt a solution on a proposal for enforcement and a decision on legal remedies, on solutions taken by the court. Therefore, a major reduction in the role of the court and a considerable increase in the role of the perpetrators requires that the court tax be reduced. Besides that. The party pays the perpetrator's advance to carry out the execution, so the solution so far has been unfairly burdened by the party. Article 10 of the Law regulates the payment of fees for decisions taken by the court in the executive procedure and the security procedure. The fee shall not be paid in the future for decisions taken by the court on a proposal for enforcement on the basis of an executive or credible document. The fee shall only be paid where the decision to execute the preceding recognition procedure is taken and by a foreign executive. In addition, the tax remains to be paid for the solution made on the security proposal and the decision taken by the court to object to the enforcement decision on the basis of a credible document. The paper is that if the execution of a tax solution is carried out by the executioner, the tax shall be reduced by a third of the corresponding tax in the litigation procedure. Therefore, the tax liability for citizens and legal persons in the executive procedure has been doubled. Article 11 of the Law, amending heading 33 of the tax tariff, complements the obligation to pay and for the costs incurred in public prosecution proceedings and with regard to the costs incurred by the review of public prosecutorial acts made at the request of the party, and Article 12 of the Law provides for the payment of a court fee and for a decision rejecting or rejecting a request for exemption and a deputy public prosecutor. These amendments are provided for in order to comply with the Code of Criminal Procedure, which provides for the investigation to be conducted by the public prosecutor. The reason for the proposal and the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy is that, by decision of the Constitutional Court of 6 February 2014, they ceased to apply the provisions of Articles 40, 8, 9 and 11. Law on the Justice Academy. In the light of this decision, the Constitutional Court states, inter alia, that the law cannot oblige the High Council of the Court of Justice, i.e. the State Greater Prosecutors to propose to the National Assembly for the first time in office, or the Deputy Prosecutor-General of the candidate who completed the initial training at the Judicial Academy, but that the law may lay down rules on the basis of which the High Council of the judiciary, or the State Major Prosecutors, would particularly value the completed initial training at the Judicial Academy in the process of proposing judges and deputy public prosecutors to be elected for the first time. Prior to that, it was done to specify the applicable provisions of the Law on the Judicial Academy relating to the work of the Academy, the composition of the Academy’s programme council, the provisions on salaries and fees of mentors and lecturers at the Judicial Academy, the final assessment of users of initial training, the rights and obligations of users of initial training and provisions on types of training. The draft law allows the Judicial Academy to implement professional training programmes for executioners and public notaries based on contracts with the Public Note Chamber and the Chamber of Executives. Amendments to Article 16 have been made to the draft law. The Law on the Judicial Academy, by increasing the number of members of the Programme Council by allowing the programme's work to be attended by a representative of the users of initial training. The bill sets out the composition of the commission before which the final initial training exam is to be passed. The commission is proposed to consist of five members, three of whom are judges, and two public prosecutors, i.e. the deputy public prosecutor. Article 5 The draft law is complemented by a member of the 40th Act, by the necessary precision of this member of the Law on the Judicial Academy for the reason that the Constitutional Court's decision deletes the provisions of Articles 8, 9 and 11. The law on the First Judicial Academy, therefore, is necessary to prescribe that attending initial training is considered a working experience in the legal profession, given that the possession of this experience is one of the conditions for selecting a judicial, or public prosecutorial function. The bill also specify cases where continuous training is mandatory, as well as that the obligation to attend a specific programme of permanent training applies only to judicial holders, who were first elected to the post in courts and in public prosecutors, to the lowest degree. You also have before you the draft law supplementing the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. As regards the proposed amendments and additions to these two laws, it can also be concluded that the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 12 June 2014 ceased to apply to the provisions of Article 50(4). The Law on Judges and Article 75(2) The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, under which the High Council of the Court and the State Major Prosecutors are obliged to propose a candidate who has completed his initial training at the Judicial Academy, in accordance with a special law, when proposing a candidate for the selection of a judge of a criminal or a basic court. Such a decision of the Constitutional Court is, in fact, the consequence of that Constitutional Court Decision, which sets out the provisions of the Law on the Judicial Academy published for non-constitutional. For that reason, additions to the Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office have been proposed, by prescribing specific rules for determining the professionality and competence of the candidates for the judge, i.e. Deputy Prosecutor, who is first elected to perform his duties in the criminal and basic court, i.e. in the General Public Prosecutor's Office, whereby candidates who have completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy are exempt from passing a special examination organised by the High Council of the Judiciary, and the assessment of the final examination of the initial training at the Judicial Academy has been compared with the assessment of this particular examination. In addition, the draft law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law empowers the minister of justice to adopt an act, which determines the number of prosecutors for each basic and more public prosecutor's office. Such a solution is to comply with the same solution as provided for in the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. You are also facing formal and fundamentally very important, in its scope the minimum proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors. The Action Plan for the Negotiating Chapter 23 in the field of justice as activities for its implementation, inter alia, provides for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the High Council of Justice and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, which introduces the principle of transparency of the work of these bodies within the limits of the provisions of the current Constitution, which includes public sessions, reasoned decisions and publication of decisions and reports on the work on the websites of these two national authorities. In order to fulfil those obligations, amendments and additions to the Council and the State Council Act have been proposed. Unlike the existing legal solutions, the proposals for the law are explicitly prescribed that the meetings of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors are public, while the holding of meetings closed to the public is now essentially set up as an exception, if this requires the interests of public order or the protection of the confidentiality of information or for other reasons prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. It is also prescribed to explain all decisions made by the High Judicial Council and the State Greater Prosecutors, with the leaving of exceptions when the Rules of Procedure is different, in order to fully implement the principle of the public in the work, the mandatory publication of Rules of Procedure, other general acts and annual reports on the website of the High Council and the State Council is also required. Finally, the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on mutual protection of classified information. This is another one in a series of bilateral agreements governing the exchange of classified information between them. This Agreement lays down central authorities for the exchange of classified information, lays down equivalent classification codes, arrangements for the exchange of classified information, as well as the measures to be applied. This agreement creates conditions for further co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Poland in the areas of internal affairs, justice, foreign affairs, defence, as well as in the area of the dedicated industry. Convinced that we will have a good and fruitful public debate, as it has been every time in the House of the National Assembly, I urge you to support their adoption in the day of voting after considering these draft laws in principle and in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43050	I thank the Minister. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Does the board of directors want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43051	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with associates, as important as it is for Serbian citizens to join the European Union, may be best confirmed by the laws that are on the agenda today, because the EU accession process is important not only for the quality of the rules that are passed but also for the consistent and equal application of existing rules in relation to all citizens, and not for some to which others are applied, but for the principle that all citizens are equal before the law, and not as we have the case today, that some are a little more equal, and some are not. This should also be added to the situations described in the European Commission's report on Serbia's progress in the accession process, where it is one of the main criticisms on the account of the judiciary area, which is actually a criticism to the representatives of the authorities that very often in public and many not exactly chosen words, comment on trials and investigations in progress, and very often do not hesitate to predict the final outcome of the case before the court or investigation, which is further underestimating, particularly the holders of judicial functions and influence the principle of independence being brought under serious question. Not to mention that the European Commission's report, as one of the remarks and the political influence mentioned in the election of judges and public prosecutors, as well as frequent changes in legislation that create a legal environment that cannot be called secure and reliable. As a result, it has been estimated, otherwise, that Serbia has made little progress in the process of joining the judiciary, i.e. it has reached only a certain level of preparedness. The Action Plan for the negotiating chapter 23, concerning the judiciary, provides for a full set of activities to be implemented to implement the recommendations received. But what I'm afraid of is that these recommendations will only be accepted declaratively, and that in a whole series of ways, a whole series of provisions of the proposed laws will actually be bypassed, what has been done among other things and in some of these proposed laws that are on the agenda today. I'm going to name some diameters now. If, on the one hand, we accept the principle that the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors must do so publicly and transparently, and if we accept this as a declarative principle in these proposed amendments of the Law, then I find it extremely unacceptable to make exceptions in this exception to the law itself, which would be only acceptable and logical if there should be exceptions, for example, from public sessions or publication of decisions, to make arguments, etc., because I believe that the exclusion of the public is not in line with the Constitution and the legal order of the State. So, on the one hand, we accept the principle of transparent work of the High Council of Justice and the State Council of Prosecutors, and on the other hand, we relativise this principle by allowing the act to lower the legal force than the law to virtually amend this principle, relativise, to reduce its fact and influence. I don't think that's good. If it is said that the decisions of the High Council of the judiciary should be reasoned, then any decision should be reasoned, allowing the Rules of Procedure to be made without justification when making reasons for the decision-makers does not require any particular intellectual effort, nor does it entail any additional material costs. Another example which, for example, refers to this deviation from the declaration of acceptance of certain principles on the one hand, and practically what is proposed in the laws on the other hand, for example, concerns the principle of independence of courts, i.e. judicial authorities, courts and prosecutors. One of the key elements of each independence is financial independence. If we really want the judicial authorities to be independent, then only the judicial authorities should be solely in charge of the judicial budget, and not that, as is the case now, the judicial authorities share jurisdiction relating to the judicial budget with the executive authority, in particular the Ministry of Justice. With these changes on the agenda today, you have missed the opportunity to imitate this principle of judicial independence by the principles that you at least declare. When we talk about the draft law on enforcement and security, it is certainly one of the key points on today's agenda and is an understandable need to speed up the process of forced collection of executive creditors' claims, to make the procedure effective. I fully agree that this must in no way go to the expense of the scope and type of party rights in the process, therefore, not only does the legislator take care of interests and protect the rights of executive creditors, I believe that an executive debtor must be treated equally. For example, I think that the appeal in the executive procedure should have a suspension fact always, and only exclusively that it is not there, unlike the proposed solution where it is vice versa, that there is no suspension fact as a rule, except in some exceptional cases provided for by the regulations, i.e. by law. I think that when the individual deadlines laid down in the law on enforcement and security are collected, and as far as the appeal procedure is concerned, the appeal procedure in a situation where the prescribed deadlines were indeed respected would be about thirty days. In those 30 days, the practical halt of the executive procedure would not have a significant impact on the realization of the trustee's claim, and on the other hand, it would certainly contribute to the legal certainty of both creditors and debtors. If a solution remains that the complaint does not have a suspension, e.g. In the case of the blocking of the debtor's account, damage could often be done which is not compensateable because the damage caused by the baseless payment and by removing the debtor's account is the least of the problems that, if the complaint turns out to have been established and the return of unfounded payments is done, but in business very often happens that, for whatever reason, the debtor's account is blocked, that the debtor cannot obtain confirmation from the bank that his account is not blocked, and can not, for example, be blocked. to participate in some tender, and then it turns out that the blockade was unfounded. That kind of damage can't be compensated. In addition, I think that speeding up the process should not affect the quality of the decisions to be delivered. I think that any decision, and in particular a decision on a proposal for enforcement, must be reasoned, because as the trustee has the right to a reasoned decision on the situation where its proposal for enforcement is rejected or rejected, so the executive debtor must be entitled to an explanation in a situation where the proposal for enforcement is adopted and further enforcement determined. Also, I believe that the proposed solution to try the delivery only once, and that after the failed delivery immediately, except in the cases prescribed, but as a rule, so that the court's written or decision is pointed out on the ad board, I find it really inappropriate, but also unnecessary, speeding up the procedure. I think it is far better and more celery and corresponds to the spirit of protection of interest and debtors and creditors that after the first attempt to deliver, which was unsuccessful, leave a notice in the mailbox at the door or in another way to the executive debtor, that within eight days it can be taken over in writing in court or with the public executioner and only then, when that time has elapsed, can the emphasis be placed on the advertising board. I also suggest that due to frequent amendments to the 1994 Law on Judicial Taxes, which was adopted, the consolidated text is soon established in order to facilitate compliance. Now that I've mentioned court fees, I have to tell you that I was quite surprised, but unpleasantly surprised, because I expected you to suggest this shift to offer the possibility of paying court fees in ways that are suitable for the 21st century -- payment cards, mobile phones, that you would also try to create legal, but also technical conditions to facilitate the payment of court fees. However, no, your proposal has come down only to the change in the denomination of court tax marks, which seems to me, however, to me at this point, is a way of paying court fees. When we talk about the Judicial Academy, there are also provisions on closer conditions and criteria for the appointment of members of the Management Board and the Programme Council, members of the committees elected, mentors, lecturers, as well as provisions relating to the proposed process itself, which is also highlighted in the remarks of the Anti-Corruption Agency, if you have the opinion of that agency at all. I also think that the opportunity for the regulations to comply with what is required by the action plan for the judicial negotiating chapter has been missed in this regard. These would be some general principle remarks. We will discuss individual remarks in the discussion of details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43052	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43053	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with best intentions, convinced that my predecessor has a good intention when she also makes remarks on the texts and provisions contained in the draft laws we are discussing today, I will also, not in principle, but individually refer to what is here. So, when it comes to the report on the progress of European Serbia, and in particular Chapter 23, which concerns the judiciary, the fight against corruption and fundamental rights, it is true that for years in each report, it has been stated that our Constitution contains provisions that allow political influence on the election of judicial officials, but it is also true that the EU has been in its 2010 and 2011 progress report on Serbia, when I was not a minister of justice and when the party who proposed me to this post was not in power, made concrete remarks on such a kind of political impact on the most bearers and holders of judicial functions. I do not know that from half of 2012 until today, since it has been an honor to be in this place, the European Commission has pointed to concrete examples of this kind and until we amend our Constitution, whose provisions were misused that year at 2010, by some other parliamentary majority in this assembly, such a provision will be in each progress report. As far as I'm concerned, my work at the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors is easily verifiable. I have nothing to hide in it, and I think that, by respecting the provisions of both the Constitution and the law, I have shown, within the limits of my ability, how this work should be done. Also, you said the progress report spoke of frequent changes to the law. This is the first procedural law of essential importance that has been experiencing its complete change since 27 July 2012. Changes to the Law on Prosecution and the Code of Criminal Procedure, both in its scope and in its own sense, when we talk about procedural, judicial procedural laws, have not happened in the last three and a half years. This is a question that, in the talks, for example, with judges, at the annual consultation of the Vranjska Banja Supreme Cassation Court, they did not know that they were answering me, but it is true that in the last 15 years we have had frequent and several times extensive changes in procedural legislation that they once did, and sometimes they have not been prepared properly, and therefore there have been problems that the EU still points to. This is exactly the law on enforcement and security, the way it was written, the way the public debate was held on it, the dialogue that existed between the working group of the Ministry of Justice with representatives of other state bodies, representatives of the economy, representatives of the banking sector, is the most bright example of how this should be done and the good preparation of the implementation of this law will show that we are indeed responsible and that the change of procedural law, of great importance, such as the Law on Implementation and Security, should be done in this way. I'll quote you where you said you find it extremely unacceptable that exceptions to public exclusion are foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. In one piece, I can agree with you, but I'm asking one question - who is it by setting up the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors in general excluded the public from the work? You will admit that this is a significant evolutionary progress, in an institutional sense. So today we are discussing an amendment to the law, which is in principle prescribed by the mandatory public of the work of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Someone who is a member of the government, who has completely excluded the public from the work of these two authorities, is today protesting what is generally prescribed by the public, and exceptions are prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. I'll tell you right now, if you're wondering – when the public is disfellowshipped, firstly, in their decisions to exclude the public, the High Council of the judiciary must explain why it excludes the public. The public is most often excluded when discussing a judge's discharge because his or her inability to perform this high public function has been determined by his or her medical expertise. In 99% of the cases, that's exactly what it's all about. Also, when it comes to disciplinary proceedings, where the public should be excluded. I accept, we needed to change, first of all, a provision in which the public is completely excluded and in which the public is only an exception, and today we introduce public exclusion as an exception, and the public as a rule. You said, "Independence of the courts and the public prosecutor's office." For court's acceptance, I don't accept public prosecutor's office. Public prosecutors are not independent in any serious country. They are closest to what is called a judicial administrative body in our theory of judicial, organisational law. The prosecution is on its own, but it's not independent. When we talk about budgetary independence, let's talk openly and in the right way, because it's not clear what budgetary independence means. Are you saying the budget of the judicial authorities shouldn't be passed by the National Assembly? Then who's gonna bring the budget? Then whose organs are these? Are these the authorities of the Republic of Serbia or are they unique to themselves and their own organs, as some do? Without the Republic of Serbia, there are no organs. We can talk about how to distribute the budget and that's something else. We have special transitional and final provisions of the Court Order Act. Regrettably, they will have to be searched again and to speak plainly and openly what is the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, what is the jurisdiction of the justice ministry and what involves the financial independence of the judiciary, and where these financial powers are intertwined. I'm going to remind you of a member of our Fourth Constitution, often surrounded by many. Here, I suppose, you accidentally bypassed it, and that is the basic principle, drawn in the oldest, in the continuity of democracy in the world, that are the US, they say "checks and balances", we say "the relationship between the branches of government is based on mutual balance and control. Serbia's top source of sovereignty is citizens of Serbia, and that is why the authorities are intertwined in certain parts, although the judiciary is independent. Thank you for your claim that the appeal should have a suspension fact always, because when your party was in power, the appeal was completely lifted. She didn't exist, so she couldn't even have a suspension fact, she just wasn't there. Today we try to find the right solution, the right environment, a balanced solution. The way you talked about blocking companies' accounts or legal entities, I think that this kind of suspension fact of the complaint would have a devastating impact. For what reason? As when you were talking about the delivery of court mail, you know, the opening of negotiating chapters that happened yesterday and which will continue in the future in the first place is aimed at changing the consciousness and mentality of our citizens, if we want to pursue a society based on the rule of law that is democratically regulated and economically prosperous society. In any such society, when a citizen receives a call from a court or prosecutor's office, he does not avoid that call, but must answer that call. Unfortunately, it has become a rule for us, and it has become a regular thing to avoid the reception of court mail, and there are many different ways. We're talking about things that are completely certain. Someone was running a lawsuit, got in that lawsuit, the one who's lost the burden of determining the court's decision and the costs of the case, he knows what's waiting for him. In some exceptional, extraordinary cases that he recognizes and this proposal for law on enforcement and security, enforcement does not run exactly as it appears in the sentence of a judicial decision. So, in our case, we need to minimise the awareness of the citizens, firstly that the trial is expensive activity, and secondly, that the court's call, the court's order, is the court's decision, is something that is absolute sacred. When she's rightful, when she's final, when she's executive. Look at well-organized democracies, when a citizen gets a call from the court, he doesn't think about avoiding it, as much as it does at the preparatory hearings, it's determined in advance every day when every debate or search will be held. In many countries, the schedule you receive at the beginning, at the preparatory hearing, when it is handed to you by a judge is considered an invitation to each of these hearings and no more mailing. That's when you're invited and over. You didn't show up, it's getting rid of your damage. Such order and such discipline need to be introduced to us. She can't be introduced overnight, but we have to work on it and we have to work on it a lot. I have to tell you the one thing that I still agree with you 90 percent. And I'm for modern ways of paying a court fee, whether it's a payment card, whether it's a special bonus card that a lawyer or a citizen will pay a fixed amount somewhere, and then spend it succesively, whether it's via a mobile phone. Yes, but if you have listened to my testimony a little before, when I tell you that in Serbia 60% of your fees are not charged, we also need this 20th century relapse, which is called the court tax mark, in order to obtain the funds that we can invest in modern ways of paying the court fee. It's something we have to work on. Our problem at this point is that we have to first introduce some order and how much pay discipline we have and in the second step we have to go to what is the modern way of paying. The second thing, supporting you completely, see how many per cent of Serbian citizens use payment cards, how many per cent of Serbian citizens are taught and can pay a court fee via a mobile phone tomorrow. Unfortunately, both mine and yours, and society as a whole, that percentage is not great, which means that the introduction of such a system would require a detailed and good preparation. I hope I didn't miss something. For what I think you've made a good proposal is to determine the consolidated text of the Law on Judicial Taxes, perhaps the most applied law when it comes to the work of the Justice Department's jurisdiction. Of course, we will take this proposal seriously and enable it to be realised if it is shown to be justified. Maybe not just in the realization of cleaning up the text, but the adoption of a brand-new law on court fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43054	The word has a People's MP, Free Homen.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43055	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, the MPs, as usual lately we have attended an interesting lecture that has really been delayed, an hour and twenty ministers have spoken. When I say it, I don't think it was easy for him to speak for an hour and a twenty, but that's, of course, the problem of the ruling majority and proposing as many as ten points of the agenda, i.e. a merger in one item of the agenda. It is very difficult to monitor and prepare amendments for MPs, and I believe for citizens who have listened to the Minister's presentation and have a real impact on the quality of lawmaking. I really don't see the need for ten points of the agenda to be combined into one, especially that there are things that have nothing to do with justice, such as confirming the agreement, etc. Here we are talking about two important laws that are seriously changed into a new law, that is, the Law on Executive Procedure and Security, that is, the Law on Implementation and Security and other amendments to the Law on Public Libraries. I will concentrate on those two laws, because I think, especially the law on enforcement and security is essential law. When it comes to justice, it is one of the things where the minister was right, although I disagree with many that procedural laws are the key to the functioning of the judiciary. In other words, the principle question arises – what does the judiciary serve? It certainly does not serve to be paid by the citizens, to be harassed in court, but rather serves as a means for them to exercise their rights, to protect them through law enforcement from other citizens who violate their rights. For all of this to make sense there's one basic prerequisite, it's efficiency. If you have been waiting for justice for decades, then that justice no longer exists, but often your children or grandchildren can wait for the end of the dispute. That is why procedural laws are essential, because procedural laws need to be made possible, they are a tool for judges to carry out judicial proceedings either in litigation, it is not important, within a decent time to satisfy justice in one way or in another. It's that fundamentally my problem with today's presentation of Mr. Minister, not with his expertise and the way he spoke. Yes, there were a couple of arguments for or against, and he made his own arguments against and against, but I deeply disagree with the way he thinks and the way he proposes to amend and supplement the Security Implementation Act. Today's debate was interesting for the Faculty of Law, but lectures at the Faculty of Law are one thing, because they have no impact on the real life of citizens, and this law will reflect on us, both for all citizens and for what may be most important, unfortunately, because we are talking about it, and that without economics, business and business work, there can't be a state or budgeting, primarily for the work of businesses, or businesses. On several occasions, the minister himself mentioned a business duing list where we will see where Serbia will be, and it depends on many factors, and this is one of the factors that will depend on the position of Serbia, or where Serbia will be, because when you come to foreign investors, domestic investors, at the end of the day, when you decide to invest in something you have a few moments first of all appreciate the type of investment that this country needs, whether it can be exported and some rate of return of profits. But, of course, there is always the possibility that something is wrong with that, so there are laws, so there are economic courts, and you want to achieve your rights. A decision by the investor shall be taken within what time limit, if it is damaged by the State or by another private person, it may protect its rights and what it comes down to, if I talk about the economy, to get the money back. What's the point and what I'm going to talk about the most today is the question of course the appeal, the delay of the execution, but before and before we go into the process, I want to ask the minister, and I wish he had given us some concrete information today. Besides his exposure that I can agree with or disagree with, but it's none of your business, that's all. My personal attitude. What I was interested in was the minister today saying the number of executions, i.e. the effectiveness of the 2011-to-day procedure, to do a comparative analysis with a period, say, the same five years before 2005 and 2011, to see when this apparently more effective former law on enforcement and security is then giving better or worse results? Well, even, of course, someone could have prepared for you an analysis of what part of the breach, what damage he had possibly done or not applied to the speedy execution itself. Based on that data, even if I or Serbian citizens would say - yes, perhaps Mr. Minister is right, now this is better under that law and according to the previous one was the speed of execution, so it doesn't make sense. I'm afraid not. I fear that the executions have significantly accelerated the previous five years after this still in force, in which day, the Law on Enforcement and Security, and that this new law as designed by the return of certain institutions from previous laws, and even from the law of 1978, or by absolute protection of debtors, rather than creditors, will slow down the judiciary and cause great damage to our economy. What's also a very interesting logic, and we're all trying to protect ourselves, and that's how it goes generationally, debtors. How is there a debtor? Get out of your way, lend someone 100 dinars and tell them – give me back in a year and that doesn't happen and the person you gave money to or the company doesn't have the right to protect, but we all think about protecting the debtor. The debtor, the men, borrowed the money. I guess it's the state's resonation to help the trustee collect, and that's why I don't see why we all keep pointing to the protection of debtors. No one forced him to enter a trust – a debt relationship, but by his will he borrowed money or in business took some goods, but in any case, such a relationship was created. What's my objection? This law is generally not bad. I'm not going to say anything on purpose right now. There are good solutions. Public enforcement authorities are increasing, which I absolutely agree with. On the other hand, the obligation of a judicial examination is being introduced, which I also think is a good step and a law like law that does not have these procedural issues would be one solid text of law. What is my fundamental objection and why I am saying all of this and why I think this whole effort is going to fall into the water are the issues of reintroducing an appeal, i.e. abolishing the objection and certain minor measures, but not without meaning, the question of rescheduling the offer of an executive debtor. I'm here to say there's no confusion when we talk about an appeal for a solution to an execution proposal based on an executive I.D. What does it mean to translate it into some language that a large number of citizens will understand? There's a question. You press charges in litigation proceedings, e.g. Judge yourself in, let me say, Serbia, which is a beautiful country and that this is all going on in accordance with some European standards for two years. After two years, you get a first-degree sentence, of course, and the other side complains. Make it ideal for it to be just a year until the second degree decides, and God forbid, to put it back, to go for five years, but to stick to it for three years. You get a rightful decision. After that, there is, of course, the possibility of emergency legal remedies. All the time I'm talking about that initial act that led to a dispute that all debtors have the right to dispute. So, first-degree, second-degree conviction, appeal, emergency legal remedies, all the way to the constitutional appeal. And finally after four to five years, which is the smallest period, we come to a decision that is valid and that everyone says – yes, I really owe you, or I really loaned you money, or there really was a debt from some business. We now come to an executive procedure which, in principle, if you look at parallel practice, should go into as short a court as possible, but the state, with all possible checks, has established that such a bonding relationship exists and that someone has something to do with it. If we have already established this for five years and we are entering the process, which is really expected to be implemented quickly, because there is no longer the possibility of examining such a decision, all of this previous law was spoken of – okay, there is no objection for these or those procedural reasons and that is quite all right. By returning the appeal, which will have a similar fact as the objection, I have no problem because it is called the appeal, but I have a problem that it is now going to the second degree, the second court. In other words, in the least, you will see in practice, six months to a year still won't be able to execute any judicial decisions just because there is an institution of appeal for a higher degree. You say ministers – within eight days, 15 days. I agree, but let's not all forget that the judge is obliged to strike a verdict and a solution within eight or 15 days or in extremely complicated cases for 30 days, that doesn't happen. No sanctions. It'll be exactly the same in this case. So, at least we're talking about an additional six months in ideal conditions for execution. We know very well what our businessmen are doing trying to avoid paying in every way. These five years are tried, and then they drive the company into a blockade or bankruptcy, and you can never charge yourself, and those six months are enough, but they know they've lost, so they have no reason to do so and never carry out their duties. This will greatly increase the number of inexhaustible obligations. It's exactly the same for the institution of disposal. For all this, when a complaint is passed under your bill, the executive debtor has the right to request a stay. I totally agree that you've returned, if that's on the proposal of the trustee's cause, let him request the delay or agreement of the trustee and the executive debtor, and that's totally fine with me, but I don't see any reason why he now has the right to ask for another delay after all and after the appeal and all these court proceedings. It's just that we better call this law a law of non-execution than a law of execution, because it's going to come to an end. The point is that I can agree with the minister that we can, in the domain of some legal theory, argue and argue and be right or be wrong when it comes to self-analysis and some procedures so that in ideal matter or theory or ideal country they should look. Unfortunately, Serbia has shown that debtors always abuse all possible procedural means, and in this way we give them only a far greater number of procedural means that can be misused. We have submitted amendments that are going this way. I do not think that they will be adopted by listening to Mr. Minister's thinking, but I am afraid that this way we will come relatively quickly, not with our will, but under the pressure of foreign investors or the EU one day that this law will change and return, in another way to settle and that will allow for more effective enforcement of its own judicial decisions and obligations. As far as the Law on Public Libraries is concerned, there are basically changes that are quite all right. I have one fundamental regret here, and I think you can adopt it with the amendment, which is the question – what has changed that attending seminars and training is no longer mandatory for public notebooks, but it means that it is not a reason for resolution, but that they do not have to attend. Now I'm going to tell you something as a lawyer who's been acting in practice, and I think you've all come across that case by now. Very often it happens that a public notebook cannot, is not ready or knows the matter to carry out a copy of a particular contract and you contact another notary who will do this to you. What's the problem? The problem is unequal practice. We can't even blame ourselves, some of us haven't had contact with one substance, some of us aren't with another. But believe me, anything you think one notary wouldn't do today, you turn the other, the third, the fourth, and 90% of the cases, you'll finish the job, because here I'm not talking about things that are absolutely illegal, but things that can be interpreted in one way or another. Why am I telling you this? I am talking about the need for a level playing field for public notebooks. How are you gonna do that if you don't do it through training and seminars? Yeah, they're voluntary, but no one's going to attend, because we know that public notebooks make big money, so they won't waste time on training and seminars, but they're going to do nice work, verify and earn money. The only law can force them, and my proposal, Mr. Minister, is to adopt our amendment. I think that would be good for some perspective, and you were talking about perfecting. In the end, let me draw some conclusions about all this. I don't wish I could say it today - welcome to 1988. Please consider the amendments. I ask you to think about what is most important to our country, which is economy, and how the government will help. Of course, not only the Ministry of Economy, but also the judicial authorities, or the minister in his jurisdiction, as far as he can or may not. One of the good things I want to praise right now, and that concerns Parliament itself, is the work of the Cocus Group of this Parliament. Indeed, good amendments have been proposed, and I hope that the ruling majority and minister will have understanding and will adopt the amendments. They are part of what I was talking about, but I think they show that there is indeed a willingness in parliament to see the potential size of the problem I was talking about today. In principle, I hope that you will have understanding and that you will understand the importance of this for all of us and for the future. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43056	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43057	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I highly respect and appreciate the knowledge and expertise of my predecessor. I am pleased that congregation discussions are under way in a new spirit, in a different way and that is confirmation that we have matured as a society and also as a political scene for what the EU recognized yesterday, opening the first negotiating chapters with the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for that compliment, because for me, it is a compliment when you say that my opening word and debate are interesting for the law school, but you know very well that in the course of the debate, rather than saying the opening word, I am trying very hard to use a simple Serbian language that is understandable to everyone, even to anyone who follows this meeting today. I'm glad you said, especially when someone who took part in or whose mandate in some important public function is being passed a valid law, that this bill, I quote, "generally not bad," because when a political inexperience in this form says so, it is a confirmation that we are on a good path and we are doing a good job. Also, you support one set of powers when it comes to public executioners and when it comes to a whole series of provisions that concern them. I would even be willing to conduct a close expert discussion in another atmosphere when it comes to appeal. I have no doubt that at many points we would agree on that. What is not acceptable and where, in part, I agree with you, unfortunately, it is still a Serbian daily, that you have a nine-year lawsuit, eight-to-five, that it ends with a judicial decision that accepts the prosecutor's claim, pending execution, and that execution takes a long time. Sometimes even in a period that has been measured, not for months, but years. I would very much like to give you the statistics from a previous period, but you know very well that our courts, very skillfully, have calculated the case as a solution, after the very adoption of the execution solution. This led to the accumulation, not thousands, not tens of thousands, not hundreds of thousands, but millions of cases in our courts, which were formally considered resolved and essentially not. Tossing out the mockery of the state, its institutions and the entire system of justice that has worked and contributed in Serbia, I am absolutely sure that the bad legal solutions of the Law on the Executive Procedure, or the law that regulated the execution, in one period in the previous decade and a half, have allowed bad legal solutions to enable courts to act in a way that, for the last and disastrous result, had an incredibly large drop in the confidence of our citizens in our judicial system. The main problem with the image of the Serbian judiciary, when you add and subtract everything, is that citizens don't trust it. Then the question is, what are the reasons why they don't believe him? My opinion is that an ordinary citizen who is not a lawyer, who is not a legal theorist, often doesn't trust our court because he's been waiting for years for justice. He doesn't get into reasons at all. You know, as we know to say, colleague Homen has been working for one entire term as State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and I've been at the minister's office for the past few years, and we can have discussions about what judicial independence is, which is not, and our ordinary citizen doesn't touch it. Our ordinary citizen lived 30 years ago in a one-party system that had a more effective judicial system than when we live in a multiparty system. It's absurd. My humble opinion is that the main cause of the possibility of affecting the judiciary is the ignorance that exists in the judiciary. Not all of them, but in one significant number of factors, yes. Let's get back to the appeal. You said specifically, or explicitly, that the execution of an appeal is being extended for five to six months, if I'm not mistaken, you won't take me for harm. But you didn't say one other key thing, that for the first time as the basis for the judge's disciplinary responsibility, we have no respect for deadlines in these concrete procedures. So, can the judge prolong and make a decision after six months? You got it. Will it be disciplinary for that? It will. It's something we predicted. I hope you don't deny what I said in the opening statement, which is that we don't have clear court practice when it comes to executions. What's more, we have something that can be called chaos. As much as we have courts, basic courts and economic courts, we have so many different practices. Even worse, as many as we have an executioner, we have as much unequal behavior as we do. There must be order here. Is the complaint something that will contribute to that? I think so. When it comes to the delay that you mentioned, and here I agree with you in part that really when you look at the delay, the maltenes come down justifiably to the level of statistical error. But I'm also convinced that as a serious man you can admit that today when we don't have an official legal-formal possibility of delay, we have it in practice. I guess the basis of the rule of law is the legal and legal regulation of certain significant legal situations, as well as these. In addition, taking the opportunity to request a postponement on only one way to request a postponement, i.e. to request a postponement, speaks sufficiently of this. So here we were in a kind of position between hammers and anvils. Return the complaint in order to make the proceedings and the judicial authorities, as well as the public enforcement authorities legal, and on the other hand do not endanger the speed of the proceedings. I think we found one balanced and good solution. Could that have been better? Now, that's a question where I think we can have a little contentious discussion. You may be surprised by my agreement, I think it might have been better, but at this point our system is not up to that better solution. That's why I said the basic part of the general provision of this law we weighed and wrote in one way that I think they are, that they are extremely good and high-quality, but we left room for its upgrade. As during your term of office, although it may not be politically popular, but I will say, it is a good thing, it is not a good way to work, it is a good way to start putting it in order by conducting disciplinary proceedings against those who compromise that judicial profession. She's only at the beginning, she's young, as we now form her will be in the future. Let's not forget one thing each and every one of us like he can be a trustee today, he can be a debtor tomorrow. This is a situation where every citizen can be found, it is in the state to guarantee him legal certainty and certainty in the treatment of the judicial authorities and those who are holders of judicial professions when in such a situation. As far as the objection to the Public Records Act is concerned, if you're looking at only one angle, you're right, if you're looking a little wider, I don't think you're right. Not attending professional training was erased as a reason for resolution, but remained a basis for disciplinary responsibility. The fact that someone didn't show up at the seminar once can't be the basis for a resolution. I will remind you that, in accordance with Se Pež's recommendations, the holders of judicial, judicial, judicial professions in their position and the status qualification for performing that profession should be evened with judges and lawyers. In this respect, it is also justified to introduce a mandatory judicial examination for the perpetrator to whom jurisdiction is extended, but in this case we do not have the possibility, we do not have a mandatory solution in the event of not attending vocational training, there is even no obligation to attend professional training. I think that might be a good topic for some next debate. So, here just so there's no confusion, will he be invited to disciplinary responsibility, a public notary who doesn't attend professional training? It will. And will that be the basis for his resolution? He won't. But, of course, if multiple times in a row doesn't meet this obligation, it can also become the basis for resolution. And one more thing I left for the end, I think she's saying a lot more to herself, I have here and I can share three letters with you. One letter from the US Chamber of Commerce in Serbia is the subject of a consultation with the American Chamber of Commerce regarding the Law on Implementation. So that I don't spend your time, and I can give you this and you can look at it in the shortest, the representatives of the American Chamber of Commerce say: This way we want to point out that the way the Ministry of Justice has approached is to create a revised version of the draft law on enforcement and security, and then in bolder letters, an example of positive practice in providing essential dialogue with representatives of the economy in making regulation. In particular, we would like to thank the Working Group, above all, Mr Balinovac and Mrs Kuburović for their co-operation in the drafting of the revised draft law on enforcement and security, to highlight their willingness to listen to the proposals for solutions, the reasons why we propose and to reach applicable and applied solutions in the constructive discussions we had at a high professional level. As a result of constructive dialogue, a number of good solutions have emerged which have been significantly improved and solutions foreseen by the previous version of the draft law in which it has been discussed during the public debate, which we list only the most important ones. I'll only read them what's written in a detailed way. At the head of urgency and deadlines, the collapsing of executive and out of court proceedings on immovableities, legal remedies, the lease of immovable property, the joint sale of movable and immovable items, the postponement of execution, the acquisition of the right to rest on immovable property, the initial price of the first public competition, the direct contract. It's a letter from the American Chamber of Commerce. I also have here a letter from the Foreign Investors' Council in the Republic of Serbia. I won't quote it, I can give it to you to look at it, and all the praises for the way the public debate was held, the drafting of the text of the bill and its contents. In the end, there is also a letter from the US Agency for International Co-operation, USAID, also where praise and quality are discussed on this bill. In certain things in these letters, we are drawn to the attention of what the subjects who wrote to us felt that it could be regulated better. After these letters, we reorganized meetings with them, talked again. I don't have a letter here to show you, but in the same way about the draft, that is, the bill has been declared and NAED has submitted a number of amendments, we have again organized a round table with them, we have discussed each of the proposed amendments. One significant part of these amendments was adopted, they gave us credit for it and said they were grateful. I think it's the right way to look at making such important systemic, procedural laws as the law on enforcement and security. Therefore, if the association, chambers and associations of investors and companies consider this bill to be good and quality, if you have their confirmation in writing when it comes to it, I don't know why we would object. Of course, I appreciate your contribution to this debate. It's always good to hear different opinions. You are one of the people who thinks it and how he can explain it, and thank you for that, but be aware that we are sitting in the Assembly today discussing a law that has been inconclusive for almost two years and it has been extremely good and quality. I see that Mr. Jovanovic approves, at the time he was the secretary of state he began working on this act. We put absolute quality ahead of speed here and it must give a good result, and when the opposition party comes to praise that this law is generally good, I apologize that it is generally not bad, as you said, to quote you correctly, then it is also a big confession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43058	Thank you. You want to respond to the minister, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43059	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Mr. Minister, I wouldn't even answer if I wasn't interested in any other thing here, and I'd like to draw your attention, although there's no excessive connection with your position as Minister of Justice, more like a member of the council, but before I do, I want to tell you that you've read those letters to us, but I also have to tell you that we have the same thing for the previous law that was done. You know it was done in collaboration with GIZ, you know that it was supported by USAID and so on. What's the bottom line, if we're not talking about the principle of bad law here, I mean that they supported this option without a complaint, and now you're pushing for an option with a complaint. It's just a question of what will really contribute in practice, and of course we can't know now. Who's gonna be right, unfortunately, that'll show time, but something else made me answer my word. You're saying that, in the previous law, when it comes to delays and that, of course, the court has stalled and caused problems, I don't think that this can all be a matter of regulation of the law itself. The law predicted what he had predicted, so there's no delay. I think that in such cases, which will also appear in the new law, a series of things, the court will simply not work as the legislator imagined, the legislator or the National Assembly. There must be control by the competent senior court, the Cassation Court, the VSS and disciplinary responsibility. In cases where the law is not applied, it is not on the judges to interpret it in a bad way, but to apply it. I do not think that this argument stands and that in particular pay particular attention to the future application of this law that what has often happened in practice, that an unprepared judge implements the law in the way that the legislator has given it, creates major problems in practice. If there is a sharp control of the law itself, we will again find ourselves in the same situation that certain parts are absolutely not applied. Why? That's why there's only one answer - court practice and, of course, disciplinary responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43060	Thank you. Minister, that's where the circle would end. We have a lot of powers and there's going to be an opportunity and you've explained the essence to each other. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43061	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, today when we are discussing a set of judicial laws and we are yet to discuss in the day in particular, I must first note that when some draft laws come from the Ministry of Justice, if nothing else, then at least I expect all the provisions of the proposed solutions to be constitutional, which is not the case here, I will tax them in the further dialogue of my presentation. All the laws I've proposed today, I've divided into three categories, according to some of my own personal standards. As for the bill I will not specifically comment on, these are those who, first of all, the Institute of the Judicial Academy, for which, at the very least, personally, I do not know who it is today, such an institute is sustainable, when it represents nothing but, most simply, a flow boiler for the acquisition of the calling of public and judicial holders, which has self-inflicted the goal, which is originally and set up, which is, otherwise, a bill, there are numerous criticisms, not only by the domestic expert public, but, primarily, by international organisations. I think you're very familiar with such remarks, and the second proposal that I'm not going to discuss, since I also don't support this institute, is the proposal that concerns public records, and I think about stability, purpose, any legal institute, ultimately, is talking about the number of amendments and the addition of the law to which it is governed. So much for these two proposed solutions, which are no more detailed and in the further course of exposure, for the reason that these institutes, since I am absolutely their opponent, do not deserve my attention. Furthermore, those laws which contain provisions of unconstitutional character enter the second category. It contains provisions that are flagrantly in violation of the Constitution, which teach us to a newspaper, such as in some proposed solutions that I will taxively learn, which is actually that the Rules of Procedure are above the law, that the Rules of Procedure are stronger than the laws, which we have learned today that it is under the Rules of Procedure in the hierarchy of legal acts and which, of course, the Rules of Procedure can, at any time, derrogate the law. I'll stay here longer and longer, but I'll be on my way. First is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the State Council of Prosecutors. In its first article, in this proposed solution, it reads – the DVT sessions are public, and the State's Chief Prosecutors can decide that the session will be closed to the public if the interests of the public order or the protection of the confidentiality of the data, as well as in the case of a specific Rules of Procedure. This is a pretty vague provision, too wide-ranging, full of cobwebs, you don't even know what it really means by the use of that general clause, the interests of the public order. In addition, you refer to cases set by the Rules of Procedure. According to the current Rules of Procedure, the State Council of Prosecutors, on the public session, it is governed by Article 16(1), where in the same Rules of Procedure, in that position the first one says, the sessions are bigger by the rules closed to the public. The council may decide to consider certain issues at a public session. That is all the current Rules of Procedure on the work of the DVT says on the subject of the public or the secrecy of the DVT session. In this article, so at the very end you say – in the case of a specific Rules of Procedure, my question is justifiable – which Rules of Procedure? Perhaps in future, since the current Rules of Procedure absolutely do not regulate this. If so, then you should have put in the future time of the Rules of Procedure which the State's Chief Prosecutors will be obliged to bring after the entry into force of this law. So these cases you call upon, the total anger required is not in the current Rules of Procedure, so there is no. Protecting the secrecy of information, I think something is what it means. I'm always the opponent of this anger of the necessary repetition, now – the protection of the secrecy of data, so if anyone needs to know the Data Protection Act, my guess is that these are professionals who are members of the DVT. In addition, this is understood for the reason that we have a valid Personal Data Protection Act. My conclusion on all of this and my completely justified question is – how is it possible that one Rules of Procedure, whether it is a Rules of Procedure or any other Rules of Procedure, can derivate the law, even in a different way to regulate legal matter, is this article, the proposed solution results. I don't understand why they're not very taxing, let's say the reasons why the public will be disfellowshipped, so, when the DVT session will be held in secret and by explicitly stating, all these tax cases, by law, whatever you're going to oblige DVT to do in the future Rules of Procedure. You know, these general clauses, the interest of public order, or when something is determined in general, it doesn't make any sense at all, if you'll excuse me, then the DVT at any time can determine discretion and call for the interest of the public order and exclude its own session for the public. As with almost all the solutions we are discussing today, it is said everywhere that they are proposed for greater transparency. I absolutely support the introduction of greater transparency. However, I have to draw attention to such a thing that you see this transparency already exists, not that it didn't exist, so now we're taking an epochal step so we're introducing transparency. Let's just say, I'll give you an example. If, for example, I ask DVT for a record, adopted a record with some x, ivslon sessions DVT, DVT doesn't have to come out to meet my request, right, and can, how will it decide? He will decide by making a solution that he will refuse. Then what am I going to do? Then I will appeal to the trustee nicely and my appeal will be and established, my appeal will be and adopted, is it not any document that DVT can hide, so that there is already a certain public, a certain transparency already exists, so that the minutes of the DVT session can be received by anyone, if such a request. I have a purely technical question here that is not of little importance. If the session is public, you predict it with a proposed solution and, say, the DVT session wants 50 citizens, not members of the professional public, let's say 50 journalists, whoever, take any number, where, and in which rooms will the DVT session be held? I think it's an extremely important question and, in fact, it certainly isn't, is it, if you are already predicting the public of the session then you can't call for public exclusion under the pretext of the type – so we haven't regulated it, we have less capacity, we have insufficient technical skills, we don't have rooms etc. As far as I know, along with you, so you're a DVT member, there are 11 DVT members and you're sitting in a room where the DVT sessions are currently held already full, a couple more of you can stand around and it's filled. I ask you, in the case of the public, where DVT sessions will be held, here I am personally interested in attending the first future public session of the DVT. Article 2 of the same proposed solution reads - DVT decisions must be reasoned, unless otherwise specified by the Rules of Procedure. This is a flagrant violation of the Constitution, this is an unconstitutional full provision, the Rules of Procedure cannot, as an act of less legal force, condition the law nor regulate the legal matter and thereby derogate the law, and this seems to be, do you explicitly say – the decisions of the State Council of Prosecutors must be reasoned if the Rules of Procedure are not otherwise explained. I ask that the amendments be adopted as soon as possible to remove such an unconstitution completely from the proposed solution. Besides, it's not enough for a decision to be just reasoned. Any decision, including the state's council's decision, aside from the arguments, must contain something else that follows at the end of the argument, which is a lesson in legal medicine. The team before the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, I have it right here in front of me, regulates in its Article 21, and I do not understand it, when you say in the proposed solution – a decision; do you mean, since the provision is vague and confusing, do you mean a generic concept of where you cover and decide, but also solutions besides conclusions, opinions, meaning that these are acts made by the State's larger prosecutors, or are you just specifically referring to the decision? If you think of a solution as a decision by the State Council of Prosecutors, I'm sorry, in addition to the reasoning, it must also contain a lesson on the legal remedy, and then it must stand explicitly in this proposed provision. Of course, and to this member, as before, I have submitted the amendment and I hope you will adopt it, not because it is epochal and because it perfectly edits the matter in question, but, if anything, it is constitutional, unlike a provision that is not. Analyzing everything I've said about the State's Major Prosecutors, of course, the High Council of the Judiciary. So I urge you to adopt the amendments and simply do to yourself and save yourself from unconstitutional solutions. That is why there is no need for me to speak specifically here about the proposed solution regarding the amendment and addition of the Law on the High Council of the judiciary. As regards the law supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is in its proposed Article 1 adding a new Article 77a. According to point 3., ‘The applicant for the deputy public prosecutor who completed his initial training at the Judicial Academy is not obliged to pass an examination organised by the State's Major Prosecutors, but is subject to his assessment as a criterion of expertise and training from the final exam at the Court's initial training. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Here I have submitted an amendment which is exactly the opposite of what is in this proposed solution, therefore, completely diametrically opposite content, that the candidate, regardless of this, is required to pass the exam before the State's Major Prosecutors, so regardless of the assessment from the final exam at the Judicial Academy. I have to ask here, without any irony, I'm sorry, and who, for example, is going to pass a final exam at the Justice Academy with the highest grade, so what's going to be one exam for him in front of the State's Major Prosecutors? When the proposed solution concerning amendments and the addition of the Law on the Judicial Academy calls for the Constitutional Court's decision, then it states that the State's Chief Prosecutors must propose to the National Assembly for the First Election of the Judicial Function, or the Deputy Prosecutor, candidates who have completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy, but that the law may, carefully, lay down rules on the basis of which the High Council of the Court, i.e. the State Greater Prosecutor, would particularly value completed training. So the use of the word “valued. ” Valuing that completed training is not the same as just passing the exam with a completed exam and not taking the exam before the State Major Prosecutors, but possibly that the final exam at the Justice Academy is being evaluated by the State's Major Prosecutors when they pass the exam, which is being organised by the State's Major Prosecutors. As for the analysis of the work of the Judicial Academy, I think I said that there are numerous criticisms, both domestic, professional, and international organisations. At this point, what I'm absolutely sure of is that the members of the Justice Academy have neither the level nor the level of training and training without having to pass the exams before the State's Major Prosecutors enter the procedure of electing public prosecutors who are elected for the first time. In fact, I'm sure many of them wouldn't even pass an exam organised by the State but by the Prosecutors. In addition to the fact that such a solution is at least premature, it personally seems to me to be one, so to be a completely mild, perfiduous way, that a certain number of people, to some x, ipslon, changes and additions to this proposed solution, become holders of judicial functions, in particular, bearers of the prosecutor's office. If, at this point, an anonymous poll by the members of the Judicial Academy, each of them would tell you that they learned nothing at this Academy, but that they are experiencing it as one form that will help them reach what is more difficult, which is simply to become holders of judicial functions. The Justice Academy program doesn't provide sufficient training, you know, especially in litigation. The Society of Judges has repeatedly pointed to this, so I find such a solution premature, completely expedient, only if the Judicial Academy and the content and essential, so it is programmed, then perhaps it would be subject to discussion of this proposed solution. Who is put in an unequal position to this, that's the same question that can be asked? Prosecutors who know their jobs, who have been doing it for a long time, have written countless acts of prosecution, which have brought countless solutions to the rejection, official notes on the non-starting of evidence-making proceedings, on their own for those crimes that could be punished for up to eight years, which represent the charges, etc. So, on the one hand, we have people who are fully trained and who are already far more trained than the graduates of the Judicial Academy. The key question is this. Why would the assessment from the Justice Academy be more valuable, that's my question to you, why would it be more valuable to evaluate candidates from the Justice Academy than to say to a prosecutor who has direct insight into the work of his, for example, prosecutor's assistant? Despite the desire that comes from such a solution, there is no way that an institute such as the Judicial Academy is placed above the prosecution, and it is indirectly concluded that these hierarchical and how it is placed. As far as I know, the lecturers at the Justice Academy are public prosecutors. There's also a deputy public prosecutor and, of course, the question that is logically being imposed again is the following, and why are they in their organs, so why is the prosecutor in their body, meaning why the prosecutor in the prosecution can't, for example, give an assessment to his assistant who wants to run for the deputy public prosecutor, and who would be equally valued as well as the assessment from the Justice Academy? This team as soon as the D.A. can appreciate the work of the deputy attorney general, and then why can't that prosecutor be worthy of the work of a prosecutor's assistant? You know, there's a one with a max – who can do more, can do less. Here I have to ask another question regarding this famous evaluation. Namely, and it doesn't have much to do with this, but it has to do with, say, the State's Major Prosecutors, which is why, in any case, an evaluation of one to five prosecutor's assistants when the grades were given by candidates who applied for prosecutors of all the prosecutions, but let's say some lists, for some of the prosecutions didn't go to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and for those who left, they left without a point. Of course, only the credit-based lists are made up, which is analoguely estimated, so on each list is the first one to get the most points, but these points are invisible on some lists that went to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Does this mean that no matter what government has received such a thing, so no points, at this point so much about the transparency that we should all be declaring here today, and it is known that the first ones on the lists are those who have the highest number of points, are thus assessed by their colleagues, still act in accordance with the law and suggest the first ones on the list. Of course, I would also like to know if you, as a member of the State's Council of Prosecutors, have proposed that such lists go to the Government of the Republic of Serbia with points, since you attended this session of the State Council of Prosecutors. At the very end, I would also refer to the law most debated today, which is, of course, the law on enforcement and security, which I will vote for. For others, I will hardly be able to, unless the amendments improve, especially if the non-constitutional provisions are removed. What is visible and what should be commended in the Law on Enforcement and Security is already at the beginning of the change of the name from the perpetrator to the public executioner. It is immediately delimited exclusive jurisdiction, it is very good and the court is under exclusive jurisdiction to execute executive documents in relation to family disputes and return to work, while the public perpetrators are now, and not only the perpetrators, are solely responsible for the execution of other executive documents, that I do not now list them all. Especially because I appreciate it as a good solution is the introduction of an appeal as a legal remedy, so that at this time in the executive procedure, legal medicines and complaints and objections, while emergency legal remedies were not allowed, and according to the applicable law, still in force at this time, there was only an objection which was resolved by the court who had reached a solution and which decided on that complaint. Since I'm running out of time here and I won't be able to say everything I think about the law on enforcement and security, which I generally consider a good legal solution, it's a pleasure to have a day in particular where we can pass all the provisions of the law nice and tax, so in that day something more about all the proposed solutions and amendments that I'm sure you have to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43062	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43063	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I always enjoy the ghastly debate that some MPs sometimes enter and it's a real assembly debate and I love when it looks like it. A few things have been said that I will look back and highly respect and appreciate the legal experience and legal education of respected predecessors, I think it's worth looking back on. Of course, when we talk about the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, the adoption of these draft laws entails the obligation to adopt the amended Rules of Procedure, i.e. amendments or additions to the Rules of Procedure. Of course it's something that's meant to be, as we hear about the protection of personal data, and we have a series of state bodies that don't mean it, so if it doesn't specifically say in the law, they don't respect that obligation. If you think there's too wide a provision in which the public can be excluded, I expect to see an amendment where there will be tax-listed cases in which the public can be excluded. Well, we still have the possibility of acting through the board. As far as I'm concerned, I have absolutely no problem with that, given the strategy under which the minister of justice, whoever it is, after the change of the Constitution, will no longer be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and whether it will be DVT, we will see that since the prosecution does not enjoy independence as a judiciary, so it should also be treated differently in a different position. Where will the DVT or VSS sessions be held? Now let me tell you something that I think is very good. Namely, the DVT, and I am confident the VSS, will receive accommodation from half next year in the possibly best judicial building in Belgrade, on Katanic Street, next to St Sava's Temple. In such a building there will also be rooms that can accommodate dozens and up to a hundred people. So, it won't be any problem to hold sessions that allow a hundred people or 150 people to attend the building, unlike the current building in which, to a good extent, there are no such conditions for work. You know very well, though, that public sessions have been held a whole series of times so far, so there has never been this problem before. So, as I said, the Rules of Procedure on Labour will be amended, both DVT and VSS. When are the cases where the public should be excluded? Of course, when it comes to raising and voting always, of course, when it comes to decision-making in disciplinary procedures. When it comes to the remark that any decision by the DVT or the VSS should contain a lesson about the legal remedy, I may have misheard you, but so I heard, okay, so the legal acts that make the High Council and the State Council are by their nature the decision. Many of them do not teach legal medicine because special laws are clearly provided for when VSS or DVT has the right to launch a administrative dispute. Nor are all decisions in their nature such that they should also contain the possibility of giving a legal remedy, even a lesson in the legal remedy itself. It's an interesting part of the debate that concerned the harmonising changes and the addition of the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, I suppose, and the Law on Judges, because about one and the other, it's quite natural. I have two memos next to me here. One was directed by the Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia, the other by the Association of Judicial Advisors of Serbia. After the good and fruitful meetings that we have had with the management of these two professional associations, there is complete agreement when it comes to the proposed text of the law and preparedness, both the VSS and the DVT, that in the most difficult cooperation with the representatives of these associations, sublegal acts will be drawn up to define the way exams are passed and the content of that examination. I'll give you just one thing as an example. If the judge and prosecutor's assistants are allowed to pass the same exam as the students of the initial training of the Judicial Academy, I don't see why that would be a problem. In addition, the program board is fully and the board of directors in the convincing majority of the Judicial Academy names VSS and DVT. Is the Judicial Academy supposed to work better? I absolutely agree with you. Could we ever have led the controversy about whether it should exist or not? Yeah. Today, the EU and the European Commission, and in particular the Directorate for Justice, are asking us, therefore, to make the Judicial Academy the only way in which judicial officials enter our judiciary. Is that good or isn't it? Unfortunately, we've lost our ability to relocate more. It's up to us to improve it as much as we can. With solutions like this, we leave the possibility for people who have entered our justice system as judge or prosecutor's assistants before the establishment of the Justice Academy to have equal treatment. And that's going to happen to them especially through the exam regulations and make it possible. One in a number of questions has been asked – why would more be believed to be an assessment obtained from an examination committee at the Judicial Academy than, say, a public prosecutor or a deputy? I'll tell you why. Because more than 98% of our judicial and prosecutorial assistants without arguments have been assessed by the assessment "in particular it stands out". The evaluation system is completely unthinkable. I said - more than 98%, and that means definitely 99%. Is that credible, is that meaningful, is that argued? The High Council has worked long enough to draw up a regulation on the evaluation of judicial assistants. With great help and participation from the Association of Judicial Advisors of Serbia and the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, there have been recent solutions that enjoy the support of all actors involved in the work. I think it's a big, qualitative shift that predicts a much better evaluation system. But, you will allow, there are in our system judicial, prosecutorial assistants. We haven't worked out that system yet. There are judicial assistants who never want to become judges. There are people who retire as advisors in the Supreme Cassation Court. We need to strengthen the career system of promotion among judicial officers. In this regard, and based on the last meeting that the representatives of the judiciary union had with Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic last week, it was unequivocally concluded that in the coming year we would start working on a special law on judicial officials, which would get this category of employees out of the state system and form a special judicial and official system. Such a system will enable what I have said, which is that you have career judicial officers, career judges and prosecutorial assistants, who are not meant to become officials, or become holders of judicial functions. That is why we are in a position to rely more on ourselves, but only on some, and I must mention that, although you said you would not talk about the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy, considering amendments and additions to the Law on Public Prosecution, you are also well talking about the Judicial Academy, as well as the proposed amendments and additions. The fact that someone received an excellent grade in the final exam after the initial training of the Judicial Academy does not mean that they will be offered as a judge of the basic or criminal court, nor as a deputy of the general public prosecutor. It is only one of the criteria to be taken into account. Somewhere, there will be a proposed candidate who has not completed the initial training of the Judicial Academy. That's why, despite our agreement on how we should be regulated in principle, through VSS and DVT regulations, the exam, these issues together with the prosecutor's, or along with the associations of prosecutorial and judicial assistants and the association of judicial advisors... This is one of the reasons why they point out in their letters the need to "vacacio legis", so the start of application of this law will be as of September 1st next year. I am absolutely in favour of their comments, or their suggestions. It takes enough time to organize and rightly prescribe and organise the passing of these exams. I think it will be done in a way that will absolutely take into account the interests of all the participants in this business and that there are no judicial or prosecutorial assistants here. To be clear, both the previous speaker and I belong to generations that have completed the law school at a time when there was no judicial academy and the convincing majority of our peers are people who are now already experienced and good judicial and prosecutorial assistants, who have been working in our judicial bodies for seven, eight, nine, ten years and who have not had the opportunity to be proposed for a judicial or public prosecutor's office. Therefore, their interests here will certainly and how it will be considered and there is no reason to worry about their discrimination here. In one conversation with them I told them – would you colleagues have anything against exams, where you would be published in advance for five, six months, a year set of 500 or 1,000 possible questions? He says we wouldn't. What's the problem? Who knows the answers to those questions, he doesn't even have a problem. The other thing, someone who won the Justice Academy three, he can pass this exam. I'm saying again, if you're having an exam the same way as the final exam at the Judicial Academy, so what does anyone have against it? So let them regulate it with the High Council and the State Greater Association. They have absolute support from me, and as far as the Judicial Academy is concerned and its functioning, I think it needs to be improved and made even better. Look at one thing very important and after the Constitutional Court's decision, people's interest in enrolment at the Judicial Academy is not dropping. That information is still saying something. I'd end something that's not the subject of this session, but it's going to be the subject of some of the next sessions. Following the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the government is proposing a candidate for a public prosecutor. The role of the promoter, until the constitution changes, will not be changed by the government of the Republic of Serbia until the constitution is changed. The state's major prosecutors were tasked with determining what candidates satisfy the conditions to be elected to the post. Who will be chosen will be decided by the National Assembly. Perhaps the government will pass the same list to the National Assembly, perhaps not. I'll remind you, a little less than a decade and a half, how the government took over the authority to elect prosecutors, not public prosecutors, but deputies, so it was assessed as unconstitutional. Such a system, and in line with the directives of the Council of Europe which say that between, and not only for public prosecutors, but also for judges, the authorities proposing candidates for judicial officials and the one choosing should have a professional body that will determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of that function. In this case, it's absolutely respected by the State Council of Prosecutors. So it's not the state's major prosecutor who proposes candidates, or candidates. It's the government's job, and it's clearly written in the Constitution. As long as the Constitution doesn't change, that's how it's gonna be. Are there public prosecutors not proposed by DVT to the government? There are and I don't think anything should be condemned in advance, because the State's Chief Prosecutors can always call for further talks on those candidates who have already been through the talks with the Commission. I think DVT's gonna do it, and I'm over it to do it. As for the election of public prosecutors, the sole authority to propose is the government, exclusively that the election is the National Assembly. My opinion, modestly legal, is that it doesn't need to be changed. The public prosecutor's office is not independent, it's independent. The public prosecutor is independent in a specific case when he's acting. The criminal prosecution policy is brought by executive and legislative authority. You know, in Serbia, that's what I'm going to end up with, there's one tendency in a long series of years, that everyone adds to themselves a prefix of independence. It's just that no one's independent when it comes to receiving money from the budget. No one's independent here. So I'm convinced that at least I'm on some of the questions you've asked the answers. Whether you are satisfied or not, you will show it through the follow-up of the debate and through your right to vote, and in any case I thank you for what you said, when it comes to the draft law on enforcement and security. Not downplaying the importance of these bill proposals, I think it is the biggest and most significant legislative project that we have come before MPs in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43064	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a People's MP, Olgica Batic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43065	I thank the chairman. I have to say here, me and the minister obviously didn't understand each other here, because there was a lot of stuff that I didn't mention at all, and I was pretty specific when I asked the question, and I put out my doubts. I'll start from this set, I haven't talked at all about how public prosecutors are proposed, whether it's proposed by the government, whether they're elected by the National Assembly. If we're talking today in terms of all these sets of laws where the common denominator is transparency, then I just asked you why the lists went to the government of the Republic of Serbia without points, and they left without points. That was my explicit question. You didn't answer my question. It's not that kind of practice, but good. As for your question, which is the amendment, I didn't cite tax cases, so, well, I thought that the Proposer would cite them, not call for public interest. It's not my place to propose, of course, but you could've done it if you'd already come with these bill proposals. As for the association that you say the judge and prosecutor's assistants and other professional associations that they actually don't mind. I don't mind if they don't mind. I am a lawyer by profession, but I am not their representative in the National Assembly, but I am expressing my personal position. I'm against this kind of thing. You know. I'm not the spokesman for any association here. My attitude to express what I think, and in a judicial academy, I can't say anything good when I don't mean anything good, and I need to... Simple. Next, you speak, for a technical question, you say from half next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43066	Time. Thank you, Mrs. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43067	... I'm sorry, but what about halfway through next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43068	Thank you. The word is Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43069	Very short. As for the reason why the lists went to the government without points, because the state's major prosecutors are not sending the government the rank list. You have in law a clear distinction between the candidate list, on the one hand, which the state's major prosecutors determine and pass on to the government and on the other hand you have a ranking list. Points are given on the ranking list. Anyway, it's not about anything that's secret. When you go to the U.S. Attorney General's website, you'll find one and another list of data that, which list you need, and where you stick. And I don't see why this is some kind of problem and what would be a big problem here. As far as expertise and training are concerned, all candidates whose names have been sent have been assessed by the highest number of points. I know you probably, if you watched it, you could see it. So, completely public, completely transparent, without any objections to it, it's nothing to hide, it can be seen. On the other hand, I respect your right, what you said, you don't object to the association, I said a good, principled agreement about it, normally no one can take away your right to disagree with it and thank God that it is. The third thing you were talking about is about – what will happen to the election by half next year? That's the last thing you said. Not from half, I said since September. (Olgica Batić, from the place: Where will the sessions be held?) ( ) Where will the sessions be held? The Council can decide to hold a session elsewhere. You know, in the building where the Ministry's headquarters is in Germany's 22, carried in that part of 26, where there was once a Constitutional Court, you have an O.R. that can accommodate over 100 people. Can it be held there? You got it. A state greater than the High Council and maintains its session in that building. As for the public of the work of these organs, if you remember well from the beginning of the performance of this function I am in, I insist. The moment I became minister of justice in the state administration and in position and in position of DLT and VSS, I demanded that the session be started. That is why avoiding what followed the previous activity of those two organs. So, I don't have any problem with that. Remember that I always said that I thought it was better to choose judges in the congregation because it was done in front of the public, which everyone could see, to hear, to have a TV broadcast. If you think they should, and TV broadcasts the VSS and DLT session, I'll vote for it first. So I have absolutely no reason to hide anything there. Thank you for supporting my initiative, I think we're in the same position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43070	The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group, MP Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43071	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the honourable co-workers of the Justice Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the JS parliamentary group is concerned, I'm going to start by saying that in the day of the vote, we will support the proposals of all the laws that are before us today. I will not owe much and repeat everything the minister has said about all the laws, especially the Law on Implementation and Security, as a new legislative project, which will replace the same law of 2011, for which the Ministry, based on analysis, guidelines of working groups, expert consultations in several places, has come up with these solutions that have been offered here today to us, the People's MPs in the National Assembly. It is certain that in one better and better quality way, it solves this area, because it is known, I don't know if the minister said, how many objects and so on. The executions in our courts, I think it's measured on hundreds of thousands of cases. I think this way will improve the resolution and speed of all cases that are in front of future public executioners. When I talk about this law, I think we should all be aware that unfortunately so far it has been a practice in Serbia that the debtor was more protected than the trustee. In this way, however, the position of both creditors and debtors should be equated, that one who is obliged must fulfil his obligation, and one who seeks to fulfil his obligation, may expect an adequate and legally prescribed way of achieving his claims. When it comes to the second law, the Law on Public Registration as a new institute in the law of the Republic of Serbia and its application back a few years has shown that it is necessary to make certain changes and additions, normally through the adoption of new legal solutions. This is exactly what the Ministry has seen through these changes and additions which are also the result of the practical application of the existing law simply inconclusives that have been shown in the time of application, it has also resulted in the Ministry of Justice coming out with the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Records. What I particularly want to welcome in front of the JS parliamentary group is amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes. It's a good thing the Ministry's spotted some irregularities. I wouldn't say irregularities, but they do, and when it came out with a proposal that 5,000 thousand dinars could be paid through court fees, because it was just the biggest problem for lower taxes, when someone went to finish some work, that they had to return to the post office to pay, or to the bank, that tax prescribed by law. This way we'll be able to buy tax stamps with certain sellers. I think it will especially help lawyers to make it faster and easier sometimes to pay these scheduled court fees. What he would refer to in his presentation with a few minutes is that lately a lot has been said about what is the task of the Judicial Academy and these changes in the Law on Judges, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the State Council of Prosecutors, are also the result of all this. It is interesting that many who are now criticising and the work of the Judicial Academy and what comes out and results from its work did not speak a word a few years ago when we were literally forced to pass the Law on the Judicial Academy and when it was largely said that only the Judicial Academy should provide personnel for public prosecutorial functions and judges. Applying in practice proved not to be the best solution, but on the other hand, we still have to appreciate the efforts and work of all the students of the Judicial Academy who finish, place and get a good grade in the final exam at the Judicial Academy that they still have some advantage over those candidates for judicial and public prosecutorial functions who were not students, who did not pass the final exam at the Judicial Academy. What, then, would they have the obligation to pass the same exam as the judge's assistants, the judicial associates, and the public prosecutor's assistants? I may not agree with the minister's opinion, but they still have to have at least so much, to say, satisfaction, the advantage of having that exam tomorrow when they apply for a judge or vice general's office to be, I say, freed from the obligation to pass the exam, by having an assessment from the final exam being characterized by the assessments that these other candidates will receive to participate in the election contest of judges who are first elected or the deputy general public prosecutors. When we talk about the public's work, before I say anything about the public's work and the public's obligation to hold a session before the public when it comes to both DVT and VSS, I would just like to tell you, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, that a competition for a basic court in Belgrade for 12 candidates, which should have been elected, has been registered by 453 candidates. And imagine now that all 453 candidates want to attend the VSS session to choose 12 candidates. I'm sorry, then we'd have to hire Marakana, so we'd have to hold a session of the VSS there, we'd probably sit down, members of the West, and those down in the field, maybe at JNA stadium or some nearby stadium where they could fit so many candidates, and more aunts, aunts, aunts, fathers and mothers, etc., who are interested in their children, or their daughter-in-law, or their sons, sons-in-laws, etc. They will be elected judge of that court. Therefore, if someone wants to know how the VSS works and the DVT can always come as a candidate to look at all the files and see if anything has been done in accordance with the regulations or not with the regulations. So I'm not against the public of work, but we need to be realistic and see what that public does to make available to the information that every candidate who participated in the competition should get, etc. After all, all decisions with the names of candidates selected are published on the website and the DVT and VSS, so that everyone interested can see where he is and where he is not and etc. As far as the candidate's election is concerned, it is one of the criteria for sure success and assessment in the work so far, success and assessment at the university, but it is very important, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, when the VSS or DVT committee in direct contact with an interested candidate conducts a conversation and sees what his thoughts are, simply how he looks, simply how he dressed up when he comes to talk to the commission, and wants to be the deputy attorney general, or to be the judge of the basic court. I have to say, so let someone get angry, if there were candidates who at best wouldn't be candidates for the secretary of some agricultural cooperative in 1948. It's so much my comment on it. There are therefore such candidates, unfortunately. To conclude, not to be obliged, these laws are the product of the practice so far of applying existing laws, observed weaknesses and indeterminateness and irregularities, etc. The desire to improve the existing text of the law is precisely everything in the desire to imitate our legislation with EU legislation, where, one big step since yesterday, we have begun to enter, and thus Serbia will very quickly obtain the conditions to open chapters 23 and 24 and even faster to move towards the EU. To conclude, for all these reasons, the JS parliamentary group will support all proposals of the law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43072	Thank you. The word is Vesna Besarović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43073	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, we today have a number, as we say, set of judicial laws in the area of justice, the law on enforcement and security and laws in the area of justice. I fully agree with the opinions made before me that Mr. Minister has given one truly exhaustive analysis of the news that these regulations are making, as he has pointed out to the shortcomings and criticised the individual solutions that the practice has shown, so it seems to me now, since it has already been several hours since we started discussing this set of laws, that I have not been able to convince individual solutions. We are fully aware that this law that we are changing in general, the law on enforcement and security is most important, to say, in this set of laws, which does not mean that these others are not important, but the law on enforcement is certainly now like our work. It regulates, as you know, the mandatory enforcement of claims based on foreign and domestic executive documents. That's one segment. The second segment is the process of security of claims and the third segment is the position of perpetrators, now public perpetrators. The law contains a whole series, in my opinion, improvements, new solutions, and I really think it represents one step forward in our judicial theory, and a case law will come out of it. I would, however, given that law enforcement and security is very important for citizens and businesses and, of course, foreign investors, on the one hand, and that on the other hand it is one of the key laws that serve as a benchmark for investment activities, I would like to point out three things that have not been spoken of so far, which I think deserve our attention. The first refers, I would formulate it as a proposal, and it consists in the following – namely, the Law on Implementation and Security suggests, he foresees, excuse me, that the law enters into force on 1 July 2016, and that the ministry and chambers prepare the sublaw properly and bring them into force within two months of the entry into force of the law. So that would be 1.9.2016. However, by analysis, I may have made a mistake in some number, but I don't think I, I found that the ministry, that the ministry would need to bring 13 sublegal acts, and the chamber nine. It's a large number of sublegal acts. I don't like being a lawyer when so many sublegal acts are predicted. However, the fact is that this is a large law with 550 members, to regulate three separate segments and that it is probably a large number of sublegal acts can be justified by that fact. However, what I would like to do, and that is the proposal of our parliamentary group, to do, is to think that before accession or before further work on some sublegals is done, that a complete and detailed representation of the existing situation in this area is done, especially in the area of enforcement. Namely, such tables may already exist, I do not deal with it any closer, so I don't know, but I think it would be very important that the number of executive cases in courts of general jurisdiction, the number of executive cases in commercial courts, the total number of what we call old executive cases, then we also get the total number of cases in which legal remedies are brought, then the number of constitutional complaints filed in the area of enforcement and security, then the number of completed cases before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which determines the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia in cases relating to the execution of decisions, then the average period in which the competent authorities in the executive procedure, both first instance and in the legal remedy procedure, make decisions in the matter of execution and other data which may be indicators of the existing situation in this area. I believe that a whole series of these data, which may now seem to be small and crowded, is part of this analysis that will affect and mark the content of sublegal acts and allow the content of sublegal acts to be as adequate as possible, to make their application as best as possible and to fulfil those tasks as legislator under the Law on Implementation and Security wishes. The second thing I want to draw attention to is actually a question for Mr. Minister, and that question concerns Article 31. The law on enforcement, which stipulates that public authorities, public authorities, legal entities and entrepreneurs are obliged to provide to the court and the public enforcement officer free of charge on their request information on the executive debtor and his property within eight days. This is a very significant norm, this Article 31, but now I'm interested in who will provide sanctions for entities that do not comply with the obligation to provide the requested information free of charge within the prescribed time limit, as well as who will be in charge of controlling whether it is for example. Overrun that legally stated deadline? This could be a question, if Mr. Minister had information, or if he was willing to answer that question. The third thing concerns interinstitutional co-operation between the authorities and the organisations responsible for implementing the new proposed solutions. Namely, when it comes to co-operation with regard to the coordination of courts and public enforcement officers with regard to the reduction of the number of lagging executive cases, as well as cooperation with other institutions, e.g. The NBS or the Agency for Economic Registers, the Republic Geodetic Institute, the Tax Administration, of course the Ministry of Public Executive, etc., is very important to establish interinstitutional co-operation and to establish mechanisms to ensure that this co-operation works on a permanent basis. There, there are three elements I wanted to draw attention to. Of course, in the end, let me say that the SDPS will support the law on enforcement and security and other laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43074	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43075	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always listen with attention and, recalling the lectures from the university, I enjoy the discussions that respected Professor Besarovic is having. It is this discussion and these three areas or three questions, if we define them, that I understand in the best possible spirit, and that this is the product of the wish of the parliamentary group before which Professor Besarovic spoke, that the solutions that this law makes and what will follow after his practical adoption in the National Assembly are indeed as good as possible and better. When I mentioned a single reference earlier, which is that working on making this regulation really takes a long time, and that unlike some previous complex laws, it is applied to it by that people's saying that a lot of midwives, and a weak child, as we had an example with some of the laws, is probably also valid in this area, and therefore it is inaccurate, unspeakable and full of gaps. One important basis for the creation of a new law on enforcement and security, now the bill's proposal, was a comprehensive analysis of the enforcement system, run by the German organisation for international co-operation of GIZ in Serbia, and in co-operation with the EU. It is the same analysis, which was made very detailed, minutely, dedicated and very quality, that was submitted 11 months ago to the Justice Ministry by the head of the EU delegation in the Republic of Serbia. At that point, there's already one draft law, let's say foremark a law on enforcement and security. The key impact on this proposal that lies ahead of you today has done exactly that analysis. I'm sorry I didn't bring that analysis to show you. It is a very serious study of several hundred pages, where all those questions that the distinguished Professor Besarevic mentioned are treated to the end and completely. It was a sound basis for making this bill and it is a sound basis, certainly, when it comes to making all sublegal acts. I might not agree with you, because I don't know how you got that number of 13 sublegal acts, for the simple reason it's always said in the law that a certain question will be regulated by a regulation, which brings a Chamber or brings a minister, but sometimes more questions can be regulated by one rule, so that this figure is variable. But anyway, you're right, an important sublegal act. We are rarely in a situation where it is impossible to apply a pure legal standard unless we have sublegal instruments that have been passed. So, in January, that analysis was submitted to us. The recommendations from this analysis have been introduced into the law, and we with the German organisation for international co-operation, with the GIZ and the Ministry and the Chamber are already working on draft sublegal acts. In the first place, what is now concerned is the training programme for the perpetrators, as regards professional standards, as regards the rules on records, etc. I am convinced that, there was one lapus lingu, two months from the entry into force of the law is February 2016, half essentially since publication, not from the beginning of application, or entry into force. So we're already working on making these sublegal acts. There are some sublaws that exist today, and they need to be harmonised. Somewhere it will not be necessary to lay the groundwork of a new sublegal act, but in any case, we have taken care of it and we will bring these regulations within the prescribed time limit. I'm taking this opportunity to say something that I didn't say in the opening statement, and I know that it's interested in the general public in Serbia, even from us anyway. It is also the adoption of a new rules on the tariff of the executor. The perpetrator is being extended by powers, but the tariff rule that is valid, which was passed before I came to the office of the minister of justice, is one of the most problematic sublegal acts. We can also say one that brings the greatest uncertainty in application. One of the ones who led us to and how we strengthen the ministry's role in the application of this Regulation, namely in the control of the application of that Regulation, and certainly one of those who served in a number of cases as a basis for calling for the disciplinary responsibility of the perpetrators who mistreated it. The question has been asked - who will oversee the authorities, we can call them popular public administrations or in the public sector, and who are obliged to give up certain information free of charge that is relevant to the work of the perpetrators? First, I must give you the reason for introducing such a provision. The reason for the introduction of such a provision is that so far the authorities and organisations which have been invited to subscribe and the data accounted for the costs of the admission of such data, and these costs went to the burden of the executive debtor. And now you can imagine if you're going to bring someone an administrative ban on pay, and let's say it's a person working in a particular public sector organization. So you're going to put an administrative ban on him, and he's going to take the same amount of money from his employee to give information about his income. I don't think that makes any sense, and we had to change this. Who will exercise control of work depending on the authority when it comes to the area of state administration and local self-government, it can certainly be done by the Administrative Labour Inspector. The Administrative Inspectorate already has that responsibility today when it comes to some other regulations and non-compliance with certain obligations. When it comes to some other bodies over which the Administrative Inspectorate does not have that control depending on the organs to the organs, there are indeed those who may be invited to carry out that obligation. You're absolutely right here, the fact that when you ask me a question, so I think about who might really be talking about how wide a field is and where the situation to the situation really depends on what it might be. Perhaps even what we have prescribed in the bill of law would be an effective system to force a legal person to ask for certain data, but it should be considered. We will see really in some things, in some areas when it comes to the state body, the state administration, local self-government, we have an unequivocally clear solution. When it comes to coordination, the role of coordinators in such affairs as you mentioned takes over from the competent ministry as a ministry that has jurisdiction to regulate the work of the judicial profession of public enforcement. You know, in meetings and conversations with colleagues who perform the same function in other countries that I perform in Serbia, unequivocally and wherever the profession of public executives controls their work, legal regulation or normative regulation of this area, as well as coordination of work with other state administration entities, local self-government, the public sector in general is at the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry is the coordinator. The ministry is that it also needs to ensure the communication of the chamber in some complex projects with other public sector factors, and for now I have to say that it worked well, I am convinced that by adopting this law, it will work even better. I'll only draw attention to one thing before I finish my talk. In our courts, they are like I said hundreds of thousands of old cases that exceed the number of millions already. Interestingly, not only should we talk about execution cases based on credible documents, but also on cases of classical execution. Some shifts are made, we can't pull out a full analysis with a period of, say, ten years ago for the reason I cited when I replicated one of my other colleagues. What's for sure is, to do so in a Colloquial way, clearing up this great ballast of our judiciary will play a very significant role in this very coordination that you have called for. Because if you have a public company, on whose proposals for execution, there are tens of or hundreds of thousands of cases to stop or to level data and alignment, because at this point we have no consistent data of key importance is going to be exactly this kind of coordination. Of course, this is not any area of these areas will yet be. Thank you again for your constructive suggestions, and I am confident that we will justify this expectation that you have made, commending the law. And what really means a lot to me, when you said that a number of the good solutions that this bill contains really represents a step forward, and when it comes to the matter of execution, unfortunately, we are witnessing that in many laws we have just taken steps back in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43076	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has an authorised representative of the SPS, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43077	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, in my presentation, I will focus as an authorised representative of the SPS on, in my opinion, the most important legal act in relation to all those proposed and discussed today, which is the law on enforcement and security, not only because I actively participated in it in one period and tried to make some of my contributions, but also because our parliamentary group also has words of praise for this law and something that we could, through analysis, establish as certain shortcomings in this bill. I must say immediately that the SPS parliamentary group will support this law as a good attempt, dear ministers, to come to an even better legal solution when it comes to this area, which is enforcement and security. Today we have heard a number of comments that relate to something that is not innovative, but that is returning to this law that was once in the previous legal solutions that you have called upon. First of all, it's about the appeal. I've got to point out something that's rarely gonna make anyone suspicious. There's no procedural part, no process matter, there's no procedure that's complete, complete without appeal. Simply appeal makes him what makes two things or two goals possible. One is legal certainty, and the other, no matter how much criticism today, is referred to the efficiency of the procedure. These two goals are kind of being devoured, one through the other, but I am convinced that returning the appeal to the executive procedure was something that had to be done and when we were already talking about the suspension effect of the complaint, it is logical that the appeal should have a suspension fact. However, there is little one who has touched what is essential and what generates all these problems. No one today, the Honorable Minister, would have bothered the appeal in the executive procedure if they hadn't been back, stockpiling up objects for decades, making bad legal solutions, which, as a side effect, produced exactly what we have today. And what do we have today? We have hundreds of thousands of suffocating cases in courts, primarily in first-degree courts, and thus harming the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, obstructions of proceedings and other phenomena that in any case burden the judiciary as a whole. What I am sure of, and not questionably shares the view, my position and my parliamentary groups, is the fact that the appeal will not contribute to going deeper into some sort of sink, I am speaking of a legal sink, when it comes to procedural legal matter, because we have procedural law, which is that it continues to delay the procedure, that we continue to be in a situation to abuse procedural powers and all that has appeared as a lack of power so far. Why am I pointing out this, dear Minister? Because the appeal effectively regulates only one part of the matter in the procedural sense of the word, therefore, a restrictive appeal has been made in this law, we have maintained the objection and we have returned, that is, some of the institutes that were once present in the Implementing Procedure Act. I have to praise the fact, no matter how critical it is here today, as the Honorable colleague Homen did, as well as the appeal, which is the return of the institution of delaying execution. Why would I say that? Because in practice so far and in my lawyer and my colleagues, we have had a situation of frequent delays in the executive procedure. We had an empty walk in the executive procedure. We had a lot of abuses that allowed the executive procedure to be unnecessarily delayed. The postponement of the procedure does not go to that end and is not an interest of the legislator to delay the procedure, on the contrary. That is why the delay as a legal institute is only reduced to a narrow framework so that only one can be sought. And that's a very good solution. An extremely good solution is to return the principle of proportion, respected ministers, which so far has been largely to the detriment of the executive debtor. Why? Because for a matter of extremely small value, you could sell the immovableity of extremely high value. The principle of proportions is now avoided by the executive debtor, as the executive debtor will undoubtedly suffer damage if his debt to the trustee is relative to the items or means of execution he has as owner, in obvious disproportionate to the direct consequence of the damage to the executive debtor. That should be hailed as a good solution. What the esteemed Professor Besarović pointed out, it says, that data providers, as we read here and how you defined them in the proposal, have less or more voluntary access to data and we have to reconcile with that. We, if I've interpreted it well, and my MP group, have found that you as a proposing wanted to introduce one cognitive norm. A standard of imperative nature which obliges data providers to provide data of importance for the implementation of enforcement. However, the fact is that there is no sanctions in the event of a failure absolutely devalues the cognitive norm. She's no longer a commensurate nature, she doesn't have a namepractical character. How do you solve that question? You've made certain suggestions that we can agree on in part. One solution is that the data searcher should address the administrative inspectorate. The Administrative Inspector shall initiate the procedure, in accordance with the provisions of the Act under which he acts as an administrative inspector, has the right to impose and sanctions, has the right to control and control and to give solutions to corrective measures, but this is not a sufficient solution. Also, a complete solution cannot be accepted to be a fine. In my opinion, and I hope you think about it and think about it, it's some matter that needs to be systematically resolved by another law. Of course you're absolutely right, when you said you needed to wait and think about how this problem could be solved. However, respected ministers, there are also certain problems in defining certain standards, i.e. during the normisation of this law, which must be pointed out in order to avoid certain problems in practice, i.e. through the practical application of this law, especially where this law, encollects, other procedural laws, in particular, the Law on litigation. In particular, it's about the institute for returning to the former state. The legal institute to return to the previous situation is also known in the Law on Procedural Procedure and in some other procedural laws, and in criminal proceedings, as well as in the outsider proceedings. However, what is in some way a problem here is that Article 28 states that the solution to the proposal to return to the previous situation is an objection allowed. I ask you to consider this problem carefully. In the case of the adoption of an application for a return to the previous situation, the Law on a litigation procedure has defined that no appeal is allowed. Here we have a solution to decide on a return proposal. Which means he can be rejected, he can be adopted. Both in one case and in another, the possibility of a legal remedy being declared in the form of a complaint is foreseen. This directly collates the provisions of Article 114. Law on litigation. I personally think, and in this direction we have submitted an amendment, in order to remove this cohesion, because there should be no such thing as before, which is also prescribed in this draft law in Article 39 that the provisions of this law and of this procedure are applied accordingly to the provisions of the litigation procedure. I think it's one of the problems that needs to be solved by accepting the amendments, and I think that you have room to think about whether the amendment is meaningful and whether, in practical terms, it will lead to an improvement in the quality of this law. Another problem identified during the analysis of the entire text of this law is a problem that arises with a good solution. Why a good solution? The excellent solution is that it cannot be abolished from the second-degree decision-making process and returned to the private stage for re-determination. You listed it as some kind of ping-pong effect, and indeed in that direction stands maximum and strong support for one such system solution and one such norm. However, there is also one problem relating to the irregularities of the submission, i.e. in the event that the submission under the provisions of the proposed law does not contain all that is prescribed to be rejected. In particular, it relates to Article 75 of the proposed law, and it is normised with the aim of speeding up the procedure, i.e. enabling its effectiveness and is proposed to reject the appeal as incomplete unless it contains everything that is prescribed by this Article. The complaint is being filed on the same basis as the issue under Article 101 is regulated. Law on litigation. Now, Your Honor, we have a serious problem here. I'd accept it if the appeal were dismissed if he made up a lawyer. If I'm a lawyer, or anyone in my lawyer's office, I've done and I've made one messy act, one messy submission, it makes sense that I have to suffer sanctions, because I'm a professional person. But if my friend, Tića Mihajlović, who is an ignorant party, who is not a lawyer, made a complaint, or made a complaint, and I remind you that today we have in practice many complaints that are in the manuscript, not to say scribbling, then in such a situation this party suffers a certain kind of damage, because this complaint will be rejected in this situation, and in this situation we also come into colluding with the provisions of the Law on Prosecution, where the ignorant party must not suffer that kind of consequences. I think it's in that direction, since the amendment has been submitted in any case we need to look for a better system solution. As for the appeal, I will return to it again, and while I firmly believe and my parliamentary group is an appeal that brings back the opportunity to contribute to legal certainty, to restore citizens' trust in courts and court decisions. I need to draw attention to a problem that can appear in practice, and that problem is deadlines for deciding on a complaint. Despite the fact that the deadlines are of an instructive nature, regardless of which as such will not affect the consequences of the judge, they can still cause certain negative consequences. The decision-making deadline for the appeal, as defined by the 15-day deadline here, is too short. Why too short? Because the courts according to the current state, the current state, are overwhelmed by a huge number of cases. I told you the situation in the executive matter, nothing is better in either litigation or other matter. First-degree courts have a huge problem of inefficiency, which is a kind of disease that makes courts suffer back two three decades. If so, and so, the fact is, then we are in a situation where the larger ones who decide to object in the first degree, and this is about basic courts and economic courts as first degree, they will not have the opportunity to decide within such a short period of time and within an additional three-day expedition or removal of decisions, because there is an overcrowding of the case. Where good luck if we hadn't had that problem we had back in decades, now that problem wouldn't have come up. But he's notable and he's late-onloading the courts. When we talk about the Court of Commerce, the situation is no better, because that court, in addition to litigation and non-participatory matter, has a huge number of cases, of bankruptcy, of judgment within a reasonable period of time. The number of judges is the same and no doubt the number of judges will not increase, even on the contrary, that rationalization will take place. The question arises: Can all things be implemented within such short deadlines? I say, no matter what the instructive deadlines, they create certain consequences. If nothing else, it will result in a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. For this violation of the right to trial and a reasonable period of time, there is a certain responsibility and the right to compensation for the one whose right to trial is harmed within a reasonable period of time. Secondly, we also have in this law, and if I believe that this will not happen, because it is a matter of repeating several times the instructive deadlines, the responsibility of judges for non-compliance, or lack of urgency in the work. The judge may therefore bear a certain kind of disciplinary responsibility, and if its ineffectiveness is such a nature, in any case, there is a possibility and a procedure to initiate resolution as the holder of a judicial function. Whether these solutions will determine that judges are more exposed to such problems, that is, entering such situations, I'm not sure, but I'm afraid they'll have an impact on that anyway. So we also tried to contribute in this part of the amendments to the law, in practical terms, to the current situation, by increasing these deadlines, so we provided for a deadline of 15, 30 days. Whether this is a good system solution, the Proposer will in any case consider and consider and adequately, in my opinion, I am convinced, make a fair decision in relation to our submitted amendments. Also, when it comes to objections, there are certain problems relating to Article 99 of the proposed law. Why do I attach myself to certain members, and when we talk about details, if that is the case? Just to impose one thought on our amendments to be accepted from the point of view of the really well-intentioned suggestion of the SPS parliamentary group to address certain shortcomings that we believe can in practice cause problems. Therefore, in Article 99 of the proposed Law on Implementation and Security, it states that if a larger one adopts an objection, the individual judge shall, immediately after the legality of the decision to adopt the objection, inform the Executive Trustee that part of the solution in which the executive debtor is obliged to settle the financial claim is required, make an executive document on the basis of which he may request re-execution in the same or other procedure. There's a misunderstanding here, and it needs to be eliminated, whether it can be in the same procedure, because, in any event, in order to submit a proposal for execution, there must be an executive document, because only on the basis of an executive document or a credible document can it be possible to initiate an enforcement procedure. The question arises – how is it possible to do so in the same procedure if we do not have an executive correct? And in that direction we also proposed a certain amendment to make this part of the text of the law more effective in practical terms. And in the end, I would ask only after I have touched on the other draft laws that are on the agenda today, and above all the laws relating to the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors, of course you are right when you pointed out that transparency in work is the basic principle of work and the State Council of the Prosecutors and the High Council of the Judiciary, because, if we remind ourselves only of 2010, this lack of transparency has resulted in a huge problem with severe consequences, which is that more than 700 judges are unselected and left without a job. That principle should therefore be maintained and managed by that principle. However, I will continue to talk about this story when we talk about amendments, and perhaps even today in the individual part of the debate in principle, it should also be pointed out that the evaluation that we have seen here being done, that is to say, as you have explained, should also be reflected in the judges. At one point, if I have heard your argument correctly, at one point you have pointed out that judges are sometimes, or candidates for the holders of judicial functions, sometimes unwarranted or unfoundedly rated with "specially prominent" or "especially prominent", without justification...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43078	Time to Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43079	Thank you. I'll end up in one sentence. Without justification in the actual practical work of that candidate we don't have the data to determine that this assessment is established. I'll keep this up anyway. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I must point out that we strongly support these attempts to adapt legal solutions to practical needs, to make citizens feel that these legal solutions are quality, their legal certainty, the availability of justice, and in any case to achieve the efficiency of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43080	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43081	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, above all, Mr Minister, allow me to congratulate you on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group on the fact that two negotiating chapters with the European Union opened yesterday and this is the best proof that the Serbian government has managed to finalise all its reform efforts by irrevocably starting through European integration. And as vice-president of the parliamentary group, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as your party and personal friend and colleague, I want you to open negotiating chapters next year concerning those social areas for which you are truly in charge. As for the draft laws that are on the agenda today, unlike my distinguished colleagues who have been authorised representatives of other parliamentary groups, unless I am mistaken, with the exception of Mrs Besarovic, I am not a lawyer and I will not speak from the point of view of the lawyer, so perhaps my discussion will be slightly different. First of all, what I want to praise is the solution to the draft law on enforcement and security. Namely, under the applicable 2011 law on enforcement and security, a judicial verdict was primarily taken into account under the executive rule. What was missing is to say that this judicial verdict was both enforceable and in practice it was sometimes asked whether at all an executive debtor had the right to carry out the judicial ruling that applied to him voluntarily, because the law did not state that the executive order was, in addition to having to be legal, at the same time, enforceable. You know that forced enforcement of access only when the deadline for voluntary execution of what, first of all, the court ruling says, in the existing 2011 law, there is no such formulation. You put in this bill that under executive law, executive court decisions are primarily taken into account, and that's a good solution. What is also a good solution and what I particularly want to point out, this bill has managed to make a fine balance between the fact that it is necessary to ensure an effective enforcement, first of all, of judicial decisions, in addition to some other acts being carried out in the executive procedure, for example. administrative acts or administrative alignments, if they are on a monetary obligation, but we are, first of all, on the court's case and court's decisions. It is therefore necessary to ensure that judicial judgments are effectively carried out in the executive procedure. The effectiveness of a single judiciary shall be measured not only by the fact that the time limits are passed, but also by the fact that those judgments are carried out. I remember a quote from Professor Borisvoj Poznic's textbook, who wrote an excellent textbook in civil procedural law, which said that the litigation is actually the right to a war leg. So, just because I have some right under the law doesn't mean I can use it effectively, because there's a possibility of a possible dispute, and then we have a litigation, if I can, of course, make it possible for these rights to be actually in practice and used. Now, the executive procedure is even more the right to the war leg, in the most positive sense of that word. Therefore, the procedure does not end with a verdict. The procedure ends with the execution of what is written in the judgment. I think we all agree on that. It is absolutely necessary to ensure that judicial judgments are effectively carried out within reasonable deadlines. You have prescribed the deadlines by this bill and the deadlines are indeed such that they allow the executive procedure to be effective and managed without delay. What I also want to point out, which is a great advantage of this bill in relation to the current 2011 law, you also took care of the rights and interests of the executive debtor, so not only the executive creditors, but also the executive debtors. What was the problem? I hope you agree with me, and I think that's the impression that the citizens of Serbia also have. The important law on enforcement and security was such that it literally envisioned an economic and financial execution over executive debtors. So, you're due, there are no mechanisms that an executive trustee can't use to collect his claims. We have to take care of the fact that we live in a country that faces a number of economic and social problems. What I like very much about this bill is that he and how he is heard during which this law will be applied. When an old Greek statesman was asked what is the law and what is the best political system, he answered, tell me first which people and what time. So this bill is passed for Serbia in very serious economic and social problems, for the country where citizens are in economic and social problems. I therefore fully understand the Ministry of Justice's intensities that the draft law on enforcement and security is inoculated by taking into account not only and, of course, the legitimate interests of executive creditors, but also the executive debtors. That is why I welcome Mr Selakovic, the fact that you put the possibility of appeal in the bill. Those who objected to why in the executive procedure there should be an institution of appeal, i.e. those who referred you to this kind of criticism that the appeal is unnecessary, I simply have to draw attention to the provision of Article 36(2). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which stipulates that everyone has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision that decides on his right, obligation or law-based interest. An executive procedure is a procedure, whether conducted before a court or conducted by a public enforcer. Is that right? But it's a procedure and it's a public procedure. In a public procedure, which primarily has a court character or is the result of a previous litigation or other legal procedure, e.g. the administrative procedure, if the administrative act refers to the execution of the monetary obligation, therefore, in the process you must have the possibility to protect your rights. The only legal mechanism you can provide for is the regulation of a complaint. I welcome the fact that you have provided in the bill that an appeal may be made in the executive procedure, and I also welcome the fact that you have provided that the appeal does not have a suspension fact. My dear colleague Marjanovic, if I am not mistaken, has objected to you, but if we want to have an effective executive procedure, then we must again take care of the balance of the two sides in the process – the executive trustee and the executive debtor. The Executive Trustee has the benefits in that the deadlines are prescribed in which it is necessary to carry out the actions prescribed in the executive procedure, and on the other hand, the executive debtor has that benefit that he may declare the complaint, and yet the Executive Trustee has a benefit that the appeal does not have a suspension fact. Therefore, much more was taken into account than in the current 2011 law on the conditional balance of rights and interests and the executive trustee and the executive debtor, and this is a solution that I like very much, as I like to like, and I may have been able to say at the beginning, what you have applied, that is, to return to force some of the solutions that were in force in the 1978 Executive Procedure Act. Why am I saying this? We Serbs have one bad trait, that everything we've rejected before, so at the time of socialism, nothing was right what was in the time of the kingdom, so in the time of the kingdom, nothing was right before that, etc. So we have to let go of some ideological and political prejudice. In 1978, Mr. Minister, I hope that you will agree with me, it is also important because of another law that is still in force today and my subjective opinion is that it is one of the best laws, not only in civil matter, but one of the best laws of our legal system in general, which has endured time. When I say that the Law on Obligation Relations, which was adopted in 1978, with certain changes and additions, applies today, and you have in mind what kind of social, political, economic change has happened, that I am not talking about changes in the international environment, since 1978, and the law continues to apply very well and a good law, a quality law, then I fully agree with you for allowing some of the solutions that proved to be effective at that time, but because of this Serbian need to reject everything that was once before, were in the current 2011 law. What I can't agree with is, too, the observation of my distinguished colleague Vesna Martinovic, I'm sorry, I keep saying Marjanovic, you have the same last name as me, I'm surprised I was wrong about the delivery. Therefore, the correct solution in the bill is that personal delivery is necessary only for the first time, and that each time, if it fails for the first time in person, it is done through the court’s advertising table. You know, if we want an efficient executive procedure, then we have to predict appropriate effective delivery mechanisms. Otherwise, I am afraid that we would come to a situation where individual executives can abuse the rights they have in the executive procedure and practically delay delivery of the solution, taking into account the fact that the executive procedure is only the finalisation of something that has already been decided by a court ruling. Therefore, he is not exactly an executive in the situation that he first learns what is written in an executive act, i.e. in an executive correction when a first-degree litigation procedure is previously conducted, so a second-degree procedure is conducted, etc. So he knows very well what his initial obligations are. In that sense, this delivery solution I think has its full justification. I didn't understand Mr. Homen's remarks at all. First, by abolishing the objection, that's not true. Not that I didn't understand, but I can say it's not true, because the law on enforcement and security provides for the Institute of Objection, as I don't agree with Mr. Home, which says that this law is a law on non-execution, that is to say, that this law only takes care of the interests of executive debtors. That's not true. This law establishes this necessary balance between the rights and obligations of both executive creditors and executive debtors. I understand colleagues who are lawyers, because lawyers always, I hope that my colleague Dragan Nikolic and my colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja will not be angry, but the lawyer always takes care when he talks about the bill's proposals, as if he's standing before the court and defending his party's interest. If a lawyer in his case-law, i.e. jurisprudence, mainly represents executive creditors, he is in the interest that there are only such solutions in the law that protect the rights of the trustee and why I care about the executive debtor. But the state, in this case, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as someone who has drawn up a draft or proposed this law to the Assembly, must also take care of the interests of one and the interests of the other. In that sense, it seems to me that sometimes the arguments my fellow lawyers have are a little subjective. I hope these words won't take me for harm. As for the presentation of my colleague Batic, I must say that as chairman of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, I absolutely do not accept the assessment that anything is, that any norm provided for in each of these draft laws is unconstitutional. It's just not true. The session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has passed so that all present members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives have unanimously declared that all the draft laws on the agenda today, hence this set of judicial laws, are in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. What I can't agree with is that if the session, I'm talking specifically about a session of the Supreme Council of the Judicial Council or the State Council, closes to the public, that it is by definition a secret. That's not true. The session isn't a secret if the public is off. Why? Because the law provides, even the law and the innovation of what was written in the applicable laws, therefore, decisions, whether they are taken at a session attended by the public or taken at sessions excluded from the public, are published in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia and at an internet presentation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors. So the decision cannot possibly be a secret and that Serbian citizens do not know what decision has been made. Just because the public is excluded from the decision-making process doesn't mean that the session itself is a secret and that decisions are secret. That's not true. In the state of Serbia, no state body works on the principle of secrecy and some kind of public in the work of state authorities is provided, even when the sessions are formally closed to the public. What I also want to point out – the High Council of the Judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors are not judging the authorities. These are, therefore, not bodies which directly define citizens with their decisions, and in that sense fully understand the Ministry of Justice's intensities to exclude the public in certain situations and so that the Rules of Procedure will provide for the possibility to exclude the public in some other situations, beyond those provided for by law. And finally, let no one take this as a diabolical remark, I have heard today from one of my distinguished colleagues many hard words at the expense of the Judicial Academy – nothing is good, there is nothing to learn, it is formality, knowledge is catastrophic, what we need from the Judicial Academy etc. The Judicial Academy, if I am not mistaken, was introduced at a time when the state of Serbia was run by another party, when the state ruled Serbia and the Serbian judiciary primarily by the Democratic Party. A colleague who criticised the Judicial Academy and the Maltena so harshly today pleaded that it should be abolished, and in 2012, she was on the Democratic Party list. As Mr Selakovic said, I thought of the Judicial Academy this or what, I personally, say, in 2008, when the Justice Academy was introduced, I thought it was unnecessary, but it became part of our legal system. The European Union which monitors our harmonisation, i.e. the harmonisation of our legal system with EU legal assets, believes that the institution of the Judicial Academy is something that should remain in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia and I respect that fact. We can now not end the Judicial Academy, and it would not be good to discredit it by putting out flat-rate estimates of how nothing is done there, how the ratings are obtained there on "nice eyes", etc., but rather by working on improving the work of the Judicial Academy and doing everything that is up to us together, whether we are the MPs of this party or that party, whether we are in the ministries that are truly in charge of this area, whether we are in the judiciary, whether we are in the prosecutions, etc., whether we are all together in a more effective, rational effort to help the Serbian judiciary in general and all of those auxiliary activities that are monitored by the Serbian judiciary, and by law, and public records, and public enforcement, to make a more efficient, rational, and to help the Government of Serbia next year, when the negotiating chapters are opened up to human rights and human rights are being dealt with, so that we need to help with human rights and human rights. It will be in the best interest of the Serbian state and of all its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43082	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We're working on it at 4:00 p.m. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43084	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Honorable citizens of Serbia, we are today discussing an extremely important set of judicial laws. The aim of the set of these laws is, according to my colleagues from the New Serbia and me parliamentary group, to set the efficiency of the judiciary and to comply with EU legislation. You're Mr. Minister, in an explanation that took a long time and was very important and pointed out. However, somewhere right after 2011, when the law on enforcement and security was passed, it happened, mostly I will talk about it, because in my opinion, all other changes to the amendments and additions of this Law are precisely to comply with this Law. Somehow, he got the impression that he needed to be changed very quickly and that all the traditional forms that remained in this law should be changed in a more modern and precise way. There's been a lot of inadequacy in this law. In my opinion, this new law is better, because it changes the essence of some networked opinion that existed in the widest public, that the perpetrators somehow got an epithet of privates, with a very negative sound, and in my opinion the reason is that in the right way the role and jurisdiction of the perpetrators were not defined, and I think that this proposal of the new law is in a good way done. However, regardless of the initial, negative public attitude towards the new profession as well as, I would say, occasionally poor experiences of citizens, mostly in the role of executive debtors, I must stress that in strategic documents, in the field of justice, there is a further strengthening of the role of perpetrators and that their introduction into our legal system has proved justified in the previous three years, because there has been a significant increase in the efficiency of the collection in so-called ". Communal objects, for example. That is why the bill introduces a new, in my opinion, fully adequate term for public enforcement, as I said, in this way, particularly potentiating their position in the course of the enforcement of the procedure and the security procedure. So, this name rightly emphasizes their public legal component, because one of the main problems that has been deterring potential foreign investors from investing in Serbia for years is the ineffectiveness of the judicial system. Especially our economic courts here, where the debtor is traditionally favored in relation to the trustee. When I mention this favoration and the matter of security, I have to make an example out of practice, economic courts from about tens of years ago. Most of us remember the acceptive tasks, the magic paper of pink, which most of the business entities have guaranteed to meet their financial commitments neatly, both according to the banks and each other. The menus were still in turn at the time, and the practice of issuing acceptive orders worked extremely well and most trustees were charged without a problem until the non-aware debtors were placed on the side of business courts. It began to be interpreted as an acceptive order as a means of payment, not a means of security, and the trustee himself does not have the right to charge by releasing an acceptive order on payment. The court's interference in this manner for purely formal reasons was the termination of the original will of the parties and the sideline of the debtor who was essentially acting in order to deceive the trustee. Trustees, taught by bad experience, came to the sense and began to make contracts in the guarantee, all this is now taken into account and changed and the new law says nicely, in Article 414 that besides the other type of security means, they are gaining the right to property and movable things under the agreement of the parties. Therefore, the original agreement of the parties must be maximumly respected in each bonding relationship. As a result of such a practice in the area of execution, as well as chronic indifference, we have a situation in which it is normal for everyone to owe, and thus a vicious circle arises from which, in my opinion, when it comes to these laws in the field of justice, one right way to come out is needed. Therefore, public executioners are also an important element of the new law. They're the primary carriers of execution. Their basic activity is becoming significantly wider and significantly more pronounced, and the jurisdiction of the court is being reduced and therefore we rightly expect the courts to be more efficient. I think that even this kind of crossover of the sphere of jurisdiction is good, because our courts are still extremely burdened by all kinds of cases, regardless of being in the legal system, besides the perpetrators in the meantime, the public notebooks have been introduced, so the extension of the authority of the perpetrators is inescapable. Also, in our public, Serbia's citizens are at some point offended by the prejudice that the court as a state body is more reliable in the enforcement process and the possibility of an executive trustee to choose between a court and an enforcer logically leads to additional burden on the court and has a negative impact on the quality of work and frequent mistakes. I'll give you a relatively fresh example from a few months ago. One of our fellow citizens has not been paid by an employer for more than three consecutive months and using the provision of Article 121. The labour law that the profit account is due to be paid by the employer in accordance with the law represents an executive order, as the experience of other employees, decided not to wait anymore, especially because he feared that the company's account would be blocked by large creditors and that he would no longer be able to get the money he earned. As an executive trustee, he addressed the competent court. He had an orderly proposal to execute on the basis of a credible ID, a concrete, payment ticket, i.e. an account of the salary he received from the employer. However, the judge told him that the documentation was not comprehensive and is not valid and said to complete the documentation and re-apply everything necessary to resolve the case. Meanwhile, his colleagues from the company also addressed the court with a proposal to execute on the basis of a credible ID, and the same acting judge respected their proposal and gave the order to the National Bank of Serbia to block the employer's cash accounts, and subsequently followed a proposal for execution, which was first submitted by our fellow citizen. However, since this was subsequently done, his proposal came to an end, and what is this epilogue? Absolutely all of his colleagues received from the NBS paid funds for the salary that was lagging behind. He just didn't, because in the meantime, the company account was blocked. He wrote a complaint to the president of the court, complaining of the judge's actions. However, the epilogue is that he is damaged and simply a member of 18. The draft law stipulates that items are taken into operation according to the order of reception. So the court is not infallible, he did what the law says, but it should be believed that giving a wider circle of authority to public enforcement will improve the overall situation in this matter. So this is another example and evidence that Serbian citizens should turn to public executioners, simply not ask the court for everything that the court can do, but it is overcrowded and that courts can make mistakes, which is another concrete example. When I speak at all of the court as an enforcement authority, I must also point out that his hands have often been tied in the past by legal solutions that have not followed general movements and new trends, particularly in the economic sphere. An example of this topic is that several years ago, workers of a central Serbian social enterprise sought money from a company based on unpaid earnings and unpaid contributions to pension and disability insurance. Fortunately for them, they had a good lawyer who discovered that a failed company owned and a large contingent of actions, such a very popular bank among investors on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, and the whole business managed to finish in the best way. Why do I mention this case? Because I am pleased to conclude that the legislator has been monitoring movements in the social and economic sphere in recent years and that in the current Bill of Values Bills and other financial instruments are particularly apostropheal, as a subject of enforcement, in a very precise way. We have, however, intervened in a few places as a parliamentary group of technical amendments, trying to make precise and additional details, i.e. specify some details. Also, regarding the first example, we have tabled an amendment proposing that, in accordance with the relevant provision in the new Labour Act, the payment note is specifically listed as an executive, i.e. a credible document precisely because of the great importance that employees who are hereby forced to come to their profits, in case the employer is unwitting or chronically insolvent. In doing so, we fully respect the founding of the legislators that in the last ten years, the number of executive documents which are not by their nature judicial or administrative decisions has increased, but are acts of other largely non-state entities or statements of the will of the parties, as if they were contained in a special law. Notwithstanding the above, and the provision in Article 41. The proposal for a law, we felt that the increased degree of social importance required specifically to specify the payment note, i.e. the calculation of outstanding earnings as a special correction in which the executive procedure was initiated, and in this respect we submitted the amendment. The necessary precondition for extending the competence of public enforcement officers is also the precise definition of their position within the triangle of the court, party and perpetrator. In my opinion, it was well done by this law. I also welcome the mover's intention to reach a new solution to reach a compromise between the speed of enforcement and the general legal certainty set in equating court practice, and will therefore support this set of judicial laws by the NS parliamentary group in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43085	Thank you, Mrs. Filipovski. We now move on to the order of MPs according to the application for a word and the word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43086	Dear President, Mr Bečić, cabinet members, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a set of judicial laws on the agenda proposed by the Government and I will focus on two laws that have established new judicial professions when they were first adopted – the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records and the draft law on enforcement and security. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, I commend the proposed amendment and, if perhaps, the ministry should even consider proposing a completely new law. The current law written by the former regime in the judiciary has done nothing good, and neither is this concrete law, and we see it by changing it several times already. When it began to apply, there were illogicalities, inaccuracies, legal gaps already spoken of by the minister in his presentation, and I think this proposal removes the competent ministry with success. It is no wonder that when the former regime wrote this law failed by failing in everything, and especially in the area of justice because when you mention judicial reform, the entire professional public remembers 2010 which is hard to forget what was done, re-election of judges, abolition of judges, introduction of judicial units, there were all, people close to the former regime were elected judges, these others were not chosen without any justification, without any criteria. We have the decisions of the constitutional courts, the judges are back at work, and all because of the former regime that only made sure that they were close to their party. The current law I think was too liberal, that he gave too much freedom to the notebooks and if it's a new profession. This proposal gives a significant role to the competent ministry in the supervision and control of public notebooks. Co-workers were also introduced, which is logical because we have executive associates, judicial associates, so it's logical that we also have public-book associates. I will specifically refer to Article 24 which extends in cases where the public notebook is obliged to refuse to perform the requested official action. The proposed changes are referred to as suspicion. I have tabled the amendment, I hope the Ministry will consider the amendment, that the word "suspect" is changed to: "is available to the facts", because the doubt is subjective. What's suspicious, someone else isn't, so if we have facts, I think it's a more objective condition category. We have provisions on disciplinary responsibility, and on the supervision and control of public notebooks, I believe that it will contribute to the proper work of the notebooks and thus contribute to greater protection of citizens. As for the law on enforcement and security, as a completely new law, as someone who daily implements this law in practice, which had a lot of problematic provisions, I truly express great satisfaction with the adoption of this law, i.e. this bill is before us. When the current law began to apply in 2011 and when it introduced a private, or public enforcement institution, a new profession was established that helped to resolve enforcement procedures more quickly. The work of executive proceedings has been improved, but many other issues have been raised, in particular the questions of enforcement procedures carried out by the court. The executions carried out by the court have been slow and three years and have lasted, although the principle of urgency has been met, so complaints and other institutes have been lifted. A two-stage procedure has also been suspended, and the court has been handling the urgency principle, but in many cases we have not had urgent treatment. I will give you an example of the submitted proposal for implementation in 2012, in January of the month, where the sale of real estate is sought on the basis of an executive id, a judicial executive verdict. After four years, now four years, the execution has not been carried out. One public sale was held, which was delayed and even four judges were changed. Or, a public utility submitted proposals for execution in 2011 and the court only now, at the end of 2015, sent to the address of the debtors of the execution resolution, so both creditors and debtors found themselves in wonder after four years of what was going on. We also have judges who rarely deliver conclusions to the parties with five working days and only bomb literally the parties, hoping that the party will miss the deadline and that the proceedings will be suspended. The judge solved the case, and then there's no appeal, but a request to protect the elimination of irregularities, etc. The current law, I may say, has introduced legal certainty, while this law that we have in force has introduced legal uncertainty. The appeal was lifted as a regular legal remedy, the institute abolished the delay in execution, the return to the previous situation, and the rights of parties were severely violated. We had the principle of two degrees, the objection was decided by the same court, and against the conclusions of the perpetrators, no objection could be made. This bill solves the problem of parties and that is the most important. As the minister said, from now on, the perpetrators will be responsible for carrying out the execution, except for certain procedures. It's very commendable and now I really hope that the executive procedures will be resolved faster. I think it's also a great provision where we have that the parties that are already running the executive procedure can decide within a given time limit whether to continue the proceedings before the court or whether to initiate the proceedings will be completed by a public executioner. Then we have a provision that makes the senior court responsible for the second-degree decision. It wants to slow down the executive procedure, but it will lead to legal certainty. We had an objection to be made, the same court decides on him, the bigger the same court, and we don't have the possibility of a complaint. Now we have a normal legal situation, application of the two-degree principle, a decision on the second degree of senior courts. It is also interesting that Article 20, that courts sell real estate even if the same sale is in an extrajudicial procedure in accordance with the Mortgage Act, which seriously violated the principle of security. Now Article 20 has suspended such practice and the party has the option of choosing, or will apply the Mortgage Act, or the Law on Implementation and Security. It is clearly defined and the right to respond to the appeal, and the provisions in the second instance are clear. I'll mention Article 26, which the minister has already mentioned, I think. The suspension and return to first-degree proceedings shall be prohibited. So, the provisions that already exist in the Law on Procedural Procedure are applied, because we had cases that directly larger only abolished and returned, abolished and returned, and could have gone in circles. It is now being applied to the institute that existed and which exists today in the Law on Prosecution. He mentioned the minister and the postponement of the execution, which did not exist in the current law, so the courts used a stalemate. I really think it's a good delay, because we've had cases where the trustee is going to initiate an executive procedure, the debtor picks up and starts paying off his debt, but he asks the trustee to stop and delay the execution. The trustee did not have that option, some judges did not want to stop, but immediately it was the conclusion of the trustee – do you want a trial or do you not want to? It is five days to declare, the trustee does not benefit from giving up the procedure, does not know whether the debtor will continue to pay and then the best solution is a real delay, so at a certain point the debtor will continue to pay, and if the trustee ceases, he may ask to continue the procedure. I think the delay provision really deserved to be found back in law. A colleague mentioned today's judicial academy. I didn't think I was referring to the law, but my dear colleague Martinovic mentioned the same thing. The judicial academy is the fruit of the 2010 reform, which I have already mentioned. It's not our place to end something that needs to be brought back to life, just in a better way. So, I don't think there were any objections made by a colleague. I think the proposed law on enforcement and security is really good. I look forward to its application and I am simply sorry that it will start to apply only in June 2016. I couldn't wait for it to come to the agenda. It is clear that the competent ministry has heard of all the problems the parties have in the proceedings, that the minister and his cabinet are implementing the judicial reform properly, not as we had in 2010, and I will be happy to vote for the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43087	Thank you, Mrs. Pantic. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43088	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Turnover Movement has filed about 70 amendments to these laws. We'll see in the debate in detail from members to members, but I'd like the ministers to read our amendments, we've worked them out in detail. We tried to put the profession first. I particularly draw your attention to our amendments to the law on enforcement and security. I'm sorry, Minister, that you are a member of one of the most inefficient governments in the world. I think you guys could've done a good job. As always when I speak, I will speak from the position of Serbian citizens and I will say why the Turnaround considers these laws to be bad for Serbian citizens. First, the Public Registration Act. Dear Ministers, this law, with seven amendments and additions so far and this eighth change and addition, is not even what my colleague Pavicevic from the New Party sometimes says is a patch of the law. It's a law rag. He is harmful to Serbian citizens, because he, Mr Selakovic, is inapplicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43089	I ask you, Mr. Veselinovic, since the MPs are in contempt, that you still address the National Assembly with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43090	So think of you, Mr Selakovic, in which way the citizen will apply the law relating to him, which has eight amendments and additions. How will a public notebook, not an ordinary citizen, be able to knock on the door of a public notebook and exercise his rights? If that's the case, that's what you said. You said that after a year's application of the Law on Public Records, I suppose these last year since a year ago, that he has so many inaccuracies and contradictions in his provisions, but also legal gaps that are mostly such that they don't leave room for finding any solutions in certain situations. We, Minister, are MPs of the opposition, and I specifically pointed to this a year ago. The law on notaries or public notebooks is inapplicable. Get a new law, do a revision of the existing law, come to the Assembly with a new law on public records, and that may be the solution that we will at least know what law is in force. When it comes to the Law of Court Taxes, why is it bad for citizens, or for the State? I'll give you another example. This morning I had some administrative obligations and I got a payment card for the Republic and for the city tax, a tax on the city of Novi Sad. The second fee was 30 dinars. You know, did the Ministers how much I paid for the banking service? And, every day, citizens pay it, 60 dinars, bank service, 30 dinar tax. So, 60 dinars in the pocket of a bank and 30 dinars in the state. That's why I asked to delete the provisions on court fees, now I'm talking about court fees, where it's left at will whether it's going to be paid in cash or in taxes, tax taxes. You need to erase what can be paid in cash, or taxes, you have to pay with tax stamps just because we don't charge the pockets of banks. When it comes to the law on enforcement and security, there are a lot of objections. We'll talk when we talk about the amendments. First of all, he's bad because he leaves the possibility of counter-dating a decision. Andidating what's being carried out is what public enterprises do first and foremost. Then, it is problematic when it comes to the costs of execution. They're non-transparent. It is problematic with regard to the handling of the salary of employees which may be subject to enforcement. This is too much, Mr. Minister, for this amount to be charged...
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43091	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43092	I thank the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, always happily and with a smile on my face, I listen to the presentation of my distinguished predecessor, Dr. Vesenovic. I can't wait to get into the essence of each of the 70 amendments, be assured that we will both me and the Department of Justice and the Standard Jobs Sector. And I am still happy that he and only one day after the opening of the first negotiating chapters in EU accession, therefore, in Serbia's accession to the EU claims that this government is the only one who came after this hand, the most inefficient government in Serbia's history, and if this is a confirmation of inefficiency, I wish us more and more every day more and more. Is there any, excuse me, so I'll just quote other people's words, not mine, - is any law a rag or a cloth, as you say? The law is passed by a National Assembly, in which elected representatives of Serbian citizens sit. And if it's a rag or a rag, then it means it's been brought in busty and torn, and those who worship us today were part of the ruling majority that passed such a law. Thus, the Law on Public Registration neither adopted this ruling majority nor the ruling majority from 2012-2014 brought it by the one that has been in power since 2008-2014, and somehow it seems to me that Dr. Vesenovic was one of the important factors of that ruling majority. Whether this law is applicable or inapplicable shows practice. And the best law when it is passed cannot predict all those situations in everyday life, and even the most orderly states in the world have a period in which they measure the passing time of a law and intervene in it, most often precisely in those parts that the legislator could not predict. When it comes to this last one, what's it about, and that's the Law of Court Taxes. Again, I ask, which was the ruling majority in power when the de facto court tax stamps were abolished. Could it have been the ruling majority of SNS? I'm part of that ruling majority and I'll tell you right now - she wasn't. Who made the business for the banks, so at the expense of 30 dinars, they charge 57 or 60 dinars a commission? Did this ruling majority do it? It'll be as if someone's memory serves less. No, and this ruling majority has the opportunity to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes, to start returning court tax marks again, I even brought it to you to realize that it's not just a dead letter on paper, here I'm going to show one of the versions of how these stamps are going to look, they're going to be made in denominations and ready money from ten dinars to five thousand dinars. Here, one or two enhanced versions. So this is just an idea solution. In this way, the citizens will be deprived of this particular imposition, here it looks the most, where each will have its serial number, its number. Where each of the fellow lawyers, whom I know to have among the MPs, will be able to buy one of these tax marks when they leave for the scheduled hearing. That when he asks for a copy of the record, he doesn't come down to the counter, he goes to the post office or to the bank to pay a fee, to wait in line, to start a second search or debate, and then he's late there, so he doesn't usually get a record or sometimes gets a record, and he doesn't pay a tax on it. We are doing an analysis, here has just been done one analysis of the case of the Business Court in Novi Sad, a city from which Dr. Veselinović also comes, which has shown that by not becoming an up-to-date and good system of charge, only a taxi on copies of the records is lost annually between seven and eight sets of the most modern computer to work in our office conditions with a printer. That's a lot for us. And not to be the one to transfer Mr. Veseinović, and what he is and what he does not, and what he often knows to transfer to others, court tax marks unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen MPs, have ceased to be used at the time of hyperinflation because they were worthless as well as money. When there was a stabilisation of the dinar course, when inflation fell, then someone answered that the business banks that took over the payments from the accounting and payment services were making money on these things. It's not a question of who wants to pay at the bank today can still do it. If I understand you correctly, you're about to say, why not pay all taxes in tax marks. We've expanded that range, it's been up to a thousand dinars before, we say up to five thousand dinars. I think that's a good start. Come on, let's see how it goes. And then, as my colleague made a good remark to make sure that, by 2017, in 2018, we had the opportunity to pay a fee via a mobile phone, that we had the opportunity to pay with a payment card. You just know what our problem is? Anything that would mean leaving money in court, so paying in court, means hiring people who are involved in payment traffic, from the one who receives money to the one who is the controller. This is a good first crust, but I ask again, who didn't want to return the use of court tax marks even though they existed all the time. So, all the time in law existed, it just wasn't done. In this way we come to an opportunity, as unlikely as it sounds, but the parties and lawyers who represent them, in a way, to lend us, because a lawyer can buy tax stamps in value, let's say he buys 50 tax stamps that carry an denomination of 100 dinars, and spends them in the next month. So, I think this is a good way to put order into choosing income from court tax marks, where we have serious problems. I brought, and I can show you later, a shortened functional analysis of the judiciary where it's said that we charge up to 40% of the taxis that are accounted for. If you want, by the language of numbers, given that in the previous two years, an average of between 7.5 billion and 8 billion dinars has been charged annually, that means that we are left with no charge of around 12 billion dinars. You will agree, especially those who are among you, ladies and gentlemen MPs, fellow lawyers, lawyers, when a citizen goes to his municipality and needs for a certain reason to lift a copy of the birth certificate. So it's one click on a mouse, on a computer and a copy is printed out and that technical store costs citizens several hundred, 800, 900 dinars. And when you bring in, or write down your lawyer's suit and file it to the court, you're not looking for one click on your computer to carry out a technical action, you're asking the state to launch a big and complex judicial apparatus, where someone, using their knowledge, intellectual abilities, needs to solve your issue of law. We are in a position to pay every third such tax in Serbia. Every third is paid, and two don't pay. To see how much general trial is expensive sport, which our people would say, I'm going to give you an example, and I want that to the citizens of this time who are monitoring our transmission of debate to show. You know that we have passed the Law of Intermediation and Dispute Resolution or so on. The Mediation Act. Mediation solves a convincing, large majority of disputes in regulated legal countries. I've done two little tests here. Here today, you want to file a lawsuit, a litigation suit, where the value of the dispute is 100,000 dinars, and I'm surprised you didn't notice one other thing about the Tax Act, which is that we're lowering the prices of court fees. We're introducing a more efficient collection system, but we're reducing certain tariff numbers. I think it's one of the messages we need to get out of here today, to lower the prices of court taxis. In the value of the 100,000 dinar dispute, in the general court, the fee for the lawsuit is 5,900 dinars, and the decision fee is 5,900 dinars, which means that 11,800 dinars are the total cost on behalf of the court fees the citizen is due to bear. In the Court of Commerce, for also a 100,000 dinar dispute, the citizen pays twice at 9,900 dinars, which will say nearly 20,000 and 19,800 dinars, respectively. If you want to solve this dispute through mediation or mediation, it will cost you 7,500 dinars. So, the moment we put order in the payment of court fees, we can conduct a debate, I think it's a technical question, whether we pay everything by tax stamps, why would companies that do virtual business, make a commitment to buying tax marks, then a payment order for a payment of court fees, and there's no contact with cash, or tax stamps. Why don't you make it possible for a citizen, when he comes into a bank whose client is to say, here's a payment order, transfer so much from my account to a court fee account. When the order is imposed in the payment of court fees, then people will understand, because the court fee has to be paid, and since it's like I said, expensive work, let's look at the law of the prescribed legally recognised alternative ways of resolving disputes. In legally regulated countries of 2/3 and higher disputes, it is resolved in such a way. For the value of the 500,000 dinar dispute, in the general court, you will pay a fee, a tax claim and a decision, a total of 39,600 dinars. It's not small money. It is one decent salary outside of Belgrade and Novi Sad, and for God's sake both in Belgrade and Novi Sad, many of it is a decent salary. That kind of pay can't even get 80% of the employees in our courts and prosecutors, they get less than that. There is a value of disputes in courts of general jurisdiction, up to 500,000, of 500,000 dinars of almost 40,000 dinars is paid for the tax. In the Court of Commerce, 51,200, and if you solve this dispute through mediation, you pay 15,000 dinars. Here the citizens are really given a good alternative, given the mediation at the end of the process, which bears the executive title, not as in the old Mediation Act, where you could, as we call it, take that right and take a picture, and then we were the only country in Europe where the mediation is more expensive than the trial, which is quite the opposite of what was meant to be achieved. Therefore, I will not hold back much, although I like the debates and are always interesting to me, I suppose an amendment has been submitted requesting that the full amount of tax be paid in court tax marks, and I look forward to an explanation as to why you think it is good. I'm just going to remind you, another reason why the court tax stamps were released somewhere, in time was hyperinflation the first reason, and the second reason was that we didn't have the kind of press that could provide tax stamps of abuse, or forgeries. Today we own it and today the press can be done well within Serbia's borders. Of course, again, Mrs. Martinovic said the right thing, this is an old method, let's start with that old one, make a score, and we'll move on to more modern. Here I promise you that we will work really seriously on this and there are many things where we will be able to improve our ICT system, but as we started to do in the country when we were given the opportunity, when citizens gave us confidence, we set out first to settle our finances, because, said Mr. Vesenovic, the most incompetent, inefficient government in Serbia's history was the first four decades that had no budget rebalancing, so it was the government that first started to bring the fiscal deficit to the level of the mastriction and that government was rewarded yesterday by opening the first negotiating chapters. The right to tell you, I am proud of this, as Mr. Vesenovic said, Dr. Vesenovic, ineffectiveness, and I am convinced that everyone reasonable in Serbia is proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43093	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Markovic, and then a replica to Dr Vesenovic. If you're going first, go ahead. The word is made by the National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43094	So, about the laws. Mr. Selakovic, when it comes to taxes, my suggestion is that they are paid by tax stamps and I respect these arguments that you have spoken about, but that there is a discrepancy when it comes to parties, that they decide how they will pay. You can't see from this, if whoever's giving the warrant is going to sign up to pay in money, in that sense there can't be any discrepancy. You said when it comes to the Law on Public Libraries, that he was hollow. Why don't you patch it up, Mr. Selakovic? Why did you make six or seven new holes? You of this law have made everything but a law that can bear to be applied by the court so that it can be applied in reality. Patch him up, Mr. Selakovic, don't make any new holes. Bring the new law. You forgot you've been in power for four years. Four years, you'll be fine in May for four years. On the other hand, you say - I played a significant role in some previous period. In this area, Mr. Selakovic, do you know who played the part? Those who were with you today, I am your lords, my Duke. Is that so? Nothing to do with Jamnica? So, the ones who praised your law today, and you know where they are, where they are now foreigners, and I was against those lawyer lobbies in the party I was in. That lawyer lobby hasn't been broken yet. It's in both your party and your previous parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43095	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43096	And they decide whether or not the lawyers... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43097	Thank you. I need you, sir... (Janko Veselinović, from town: Two minutes. So two minutes of replica takes, you have to, it's been two minutes and 20 seconds. You must understand, too. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43098	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, Ladies and Mr People's MPs, I also welcome the non-governmental sector that is with us today, as I say, is always interesting when we listen from the previous speaker as we assess the situation in the judiciary, how it gives criticism and objections about the situation in the courts, when it talks about judges, etc. Now, I might have taken it seriously if it was during a period of warm support by some earlier governments in some earlier years, for example. 2009, 2010 and other years, that he then voiced that he had raised his voice against the collapse of the entire justice system in Serbia, that he had then stood up and said something against the disastrous reform of the judiciary, against the disastrous re-election of judges, because what we are saying now is a catastrophic reform of the judiciary, is not something that the advancers invented, although we were then an opposition. That's the Venice Commission's assessment. Now, we're getting into a situation where we're wondering if he didn't trust the Venice Commission at the time or if he wasn't interested in it? To ignore that, to put it aside, he could at least as a MP, then the ruling party, in the meantime, have gone into the NGO, set up an NGO, an association of citizens, but then as a MP, he could raise his voice in the Assembly here and condemn a practice that was then in place, to say something against the practices carried out by his party, which is that the municipal leaders, the heads of the municipality, assess the candidates for judges and prosecutors. In order for the matter to be worse, the assessment was the only criterion whether the candidate would be re-elected, whether it was the judges or prosecutors. This is also witnessed by the judge's company, as I, for example, only state that this was done in the Municipality of Vlasotince by the president of the municipality, but also by the chairman of the municipal board and then by the ruling party. The letter was also signed by the president of the municipal board, not to name names, and I don't think it's particularly important what they were called, but also the then president of the municipality. Now, the problem is that it was a letter and how important it was to re-election, because everyone the DS praised in that letter is all re-elected. Those whom DS did not then commend or assess negatively, they, guess, are not re-elected. It is particularly interesting that the then president of the municipality and the president of the municipal board, without hesitation, have stamped the party, but no less than the seal of the Municipality of Vlasotince. I'm just going to give you some examples right now without the name and last name, but when it comes to the judges of the Municipal Court in Vlasotinc, one of the candidates, the President of the Court of Justice says since 2000, and now he's been describing his qualities. He says he broke between DS and DSS, overcame his current interest, and is considered DSS. In principle, fair, but non-communicative and unrequited. He deserves a chance. Then, another candidate says – a sympathiser. Watch it now, the wife of a DS member. An honest, hardworking, ten years back provides all legal assistance to the DS. Probably the best in court, undeniable. Now watch this, one of the candidates says - unsullied, unpromised; probably - honest, friendly; I admire that creativity in describing – always ready for co-operation, sympathiser, undeniable. Then we've got this. One of the candidates says - unprofessional, a person with no reputation, probably corrupt, strayed among judges, radically in the mood. So he says of one of the candidates -- the president of the court by 2000. An impertinent enemy of the DS. Unprincipled, corrupt, undeniably negative. It's a picture and an opportunity of what the state of the judiciary was at that time, to which low branches they brought the judiciary. There was an example of how the former regime ever treated judges, prosecutors, and how it experienced judicial reform, which, let me reiterate, which the Venice Commission found to be catastrophic. That's why we can't believe today's words to the previous speaker, just so that all MPs of the former regime can move into the NGO and establish NGOs, it can't take them away from their responsibility to collapse the justice system in Serbia. One more sentence, and I will end up with this, I really appreciate the expertise of the previous speaker, but I would like to remind him because I believe he's distracted his mind, given that he signed some kind of motion today to replace a minister, I will remind him that it is under the Constitution that 60 MPs are required to sign such an initiative. For all I know, there's only one signer of that initiative for now. For all these reasons, I call upon you to refuse as completely unfounded criticisms that we have heard today and to support a set of laws proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43099	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. He's not in the O.R. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. The word is Natasa Vukovic, not in the O.R. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43100	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, as Vice-President of the SPO, I congratulate the MP on behalf of my political party to you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the achievement of one of our important programme objectives, which is why we, the whole of Serbia knows what we have been through and I hope that other chapters will be opened soon and that we will successfully close the chapters. There's one of the biggest burdens on your ministry right now. We fought for Europe's Serbia until 2000 with those of us who needed allies. After 2000, we supported every government whose main highway targets were facing Europe, but we also warned that often beneath these main highway targets and these European mantras are going through everything and everything. When we criticized, our criticism was the most well-intentioned. One of the worst laws that was passed during that period is the Law on Enforcement and Security. Although we were not satisfied with the previous Law on Implementation and Security at all, because literally in the executive procedure another new procedure was implemented, because the percentage of the execution was very small, too long, went entirely to the hand of the debtor, there was no balance between justice, justice, efficiency of execution, no ideal, fair balance, legal, between creditors and debtors, this law really was something that was bad in the work of the judicial authorities, and above all, in terms of the position of debtors. The law on enforcement that you are changing and changing it in a good way and we support not only the Law on Enforcement, but all the accompanying laws that are on the agenda and we absolutely agree that it is necessary that in our legal system, in addition to private perpetrators, there is also a judicial academy, and we felt that the introduction of a judicial academy institute is one of the good steps in the way of permanent education of the holders of judicial functions. The law on enforcement that is changing is necessary to change because it was cruel, because it conflicts with basic human rights and freedoms, because it leaves the debtor at the mercy of trustees and perpetrators. The accent is put on speed at the heart of justice and legality, and most of all on the burden of the debtors. The deadlines were too short, the debtor's rights were maximum narrow, almost gone. Private perpetrators were given unlimited freedoms which led to inconceivable consequences in a poor sense to the interests of the debtors. It may be an improved rate of charge, but it's made more unfair. We understand and support the introduction of the necessary institute of a private contractor. It is a legitimate motive for rewarders and compensation, but it has often been rudely high and cruel because of irregularities. I'm going to list some other huge anomalies that he had in the current law on enforcement and security. The perpetrators themselves decided what to confiscate. In order to determine the real value of the property, this is not allowed, which is scandalous, which is something that is contrary to all the basic legal postulates of legal certainty. Yes, the court has the authority to hire professionals, which in a portable sense was a skill, but simple art as a necessary institute was not foreseen. The confiscation of the debtor's assets began immediately after delivery of the solution to the debtor. The property was literally sold for nothing. It is not regulated what if the perpetrator does not take certain actions, similar to in the administrative procedure the silence of the administration. There was not one of the basic constitutional principles - the right to the two-stage procedure. It's all over before first-degree courts, whether it's business courts or basic courts. Five working days were only left to object to the debtor's conclusion of the execution. The execution could not be stopped even in the event of the gravest irregularities. There were no effective legal remedies in the executive procedure. The violation of the right to access justice and trial within a reasonable period of time has existed in many cases. There was no delay in the execution, no vomiting in the previous situation. If the debtor addresses the court, there is no time limit to remove irregularities. The law so far prescribed that if irregularities were found, the perpetrator would remove them if possible, which is absolute nonsense. Citizens could not even initiate disciplinary proceedings against the perpetrators, and the law allowed them to do so against the judge and against the lawyers. All this has led to citizens saying – well, you who have advocated change, and we have indeed advocated change for the better, we have not experienced in many segments of our lives change, but indeed change for the worse. We have advocated privatisation as a political party, for the elimination of social property, but not for this kind of privatisation done in a bandit way, and in which there was really no healthy capital and healthy procedure. This is why the SPO, because in all these jobs, bad jobs for Serbian citizens and for this country, did not participate, from them in time to time. What I want to say to you, Minister, for the best of all, continue on this path. You've done a lot in the normative part of it. You've come to grips with very large inherited problems. Only one who's fully aware of the situation in our judiciary knows how difficult things are to deal with. If you continue on this path, it is certain that you will always have the support of the SPO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43101	Time. Thank you. National MP Balsa Bozovic is not in the hall. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43102	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I want to ask before I move to the set of laws that you have passed today in the Assembly, to congratulate you as a representative of the Republic Government, all MPs and those in the ruling coalition, as well as those in opposition benches and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on the opening of Chapters 32 and 35. I want you, Minister, to be next year, and I know that you will work hard and hard, experience that both chapters 23 and 24 will be opened, and that will be the crown of your ministerial chair. I expect you to do your job the way you've done it since 2012. You know you've always been my favorite. You know that the congregation has always supported all the laws that you have proposed to this congregation. It is very important that Serbian citizens do not get the wrong impression of what you brought to the assembly today. You have passed a law on enforcement and security, which could not be changed by additions and amendments because it was drastically necessary to change a lot because the law was largely lacking. You are very detailed, although we are in the debate today in principle, almost every member has been explained and explained in this assembly. You kept one academic word for an hour and 20 minutes. I wouldn't have anything to take away from, I wouldn't have anything to add. It remains that in the day that we discuss amendments, and there are about 280 of them on this set of judicial laws, then we declare ourselves to one another. What's most remarkable about this law of execution and security is that the appeal is coming back. That complaint was also in the 1978 Implementation Act. It practically guarantees the two-stage procedure, as prescribed by the Constitution. It shall be permitted for the debtor, as is permitted for the most serious criminal offence to write the complaint, to exercise his right and to decide on that appeal by the High Court or the Court of Appeal, which means in the larger than three judges who have more experience, which are longer in business for a number of years and where the assumption is that it is actually more professional people, or more professional judges than the judges of the basic court. On the other hand, it gives the debtor the opportunity to hope that if the reasons for the appeal are justified, that the complaint will be adopted and he will not be obliged to carry out what has not been done in the right way. The very important elements in this law are that, except that the debtor has the right to appeal, there are certain obligations, which are the inability to escape, to remove, to avoid obligations and a warrant for the debtor is foreseen. A public contractor may request an APB, the area police are doing so. The debtor cannot hide, will be detained and all process actions will be performed in the best possible way. Also, there is a police obligation, which has not been the case so far, that it provides full assistance in the execution. The police are required, to inform the public enforcement officer, to carry out a security check, to eventually confiscate weapons from the debtors, thus pre-warning any negative situation and the possibility of disrupting public order and peace. What matters is this law, which is the efficiency it will bring. Efficientness is seen in the fact that a huge number of executives will be executed by a public executioner. They will do so on one market basis and that profit, which it makes, or the profits it will earn will be greater and proportionately greater by their engagement. The more objects they do, the more efficient they are, the more they will be, the more they will be able to make, and every day the more payments will be made. That's what, of course, every man who deals with this business of terror and ultimately everyone wants to earn and go. Also, there is protection against the debtor being able to alienate, hide and damage or reduce his assets, and for that is the intended fine. It's in Article 131. I don't think you said anything about it today, but it is very important to know that the public of Serbia, the layman, of course, and the expert, realizes that a fine can be imposed. That fine, of course, says the court, and that fine can be turned into a prison sentence, unless it can be charged by the debtor. It also creates one weight to any debtor who wants to avoid, who wants to destroy, who wants to warn the trustee in trying to execute and collect what he received during the dispute. Untrust in Serbia's judiciary exists and because you have been running the process for years, you have huge costs, from the charges for the lawsuit and the court's decision, the tariff of attorney, if you have insight, is also paid. All this brings huge costs to the party and if, in the finale, it cannot be charged, or disabled, one image of mistrust, legal uncertainty, fear is created. People say that everyone in the judiciary is being paid off. Everyone's dissatisfied with the fact that they can't realize what he's been running for so many years. I think this law on enforcement and security, which you gave the Assembly, will speed up enforcement, reduce the million cases that exist in all courts, regardless of whether it's Belgrade or some province. There's stuff all over the place that's asphyxiated, and all these things are left behind for a better time or for someone else to solve them. I'd like to give an example only of the Vranj Court who had only one executive judge for many years. He couldn't physically get what he was supposed to do. Now it's news that three judges are doing this job and believe that they're barely coming to approve and do whatever it takes. It's a huge number of objects. It's been standing in the archives for years, absolutely for years. You're slowly starting to open it, but it's one of Pandora's boxes and I just don't know how it's gonna be solved. I expect this law to bring about the possibility of both powers and public enforcement authorities to do what their job is, which is to implement the execution of executive titles, or to collect what is written in the verdict. We talked about public records, ministers, and last year, and the past and these. About the public notebooks, we've had one heated atmosphere, and now I can say that we've been through all this together. We went through a strike and I'm convinced that the strike of a lawyer was due to the application of the Law on Public Libraries, which passed the previous regime. Its application triggered a strike by a lawyer in Serbia. We tried, for our part, as Minister, and we as MPs, to put an end to that fire and managed to end the strike with a gentlemen's agreement, to make changes to the Law on Public Records. What is remarkable to me is that a month ago Mr. Aleksandar Martinovic and I received from the World Union notaries representatives who came to visit notaries in Serbia. I was proud when they said that the law, with all those changes that we made in this assembly, was very acceptable. They had only two objections that were not essential. Generally, they were very pleased. They announced that Serbia's Notary Chamber would be admitted to the International Notary Union. It just shows that we are a country that has gone completely one way towards the EU, where we know that changes to the law make a improvement for the citizens of Serbia, and I expect the notaries to be controlled by the ministry, and I expect their Chamber, each in its own domain, to be more detailedly provided for by this law. This law is followed by amendments to the Courts' Law, extending the jurisdiction of the courts in this sense that senior courts and commercial appeals courts decide by appeal. That's the two-degree thing. Therefore, it should always work. It is always necessary to give someone a chance to complain, to write what they are not satisfied with, to try to correct in the second degree what they think is unfair to them, and apparently there is one restriction in the application of this procedure, which is that the complaint can only be filed once and after that becomes a solution of law and enforcement and can be continued. Also, I don't agree that the appeal should keep the execution. The execution needs to continue, it needs to be implemented. If there's a mistake, there's an execution, but believe me, it rarely happens that there's an execution, and then after that, the re-execution returns what the debtor gave to the trustee. Therefore, this length of appeal and the speed you are trying to impose on the judges is absolutely not necessary. They feel a new government policy, they feel that this ministry is behind them. We're all here trying to make things better for the judiciary. In that sense, your desire to make these taxes a little better and a little more, a little more serious. They have to charge taxes. If the percentage is 40% of the realization, it's more than embarrassing. It's an attempt to push your hand into the state register and there you have absolutely our support. We expect that the charge after the adoption of this law and this set of laws will be made at least up to 90%, if not more. Also, the Court's Law determines the number of trainees by the minister. Every court has its own specifics. Each court has certain cases that are unusual, for some others the court is ordinary, in some court needs more interns, one takes less. Also, there is a national structure, knowledge of the language of national minorities. Since I come from a district where we have more national minorities, where there's a very specific situation, I think that the composition of trainees must also reflect the situation on the ground. Many of the people from the national schools are trying and finishing colleges, taking judicial exams, and I really call on the Ministry to help whenever possible and to speed up trainees from national minorities. It is mentioned and related to the addition of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Law on Judges, the Constitutional Court's decision is known and it is said that the VSS is required, and this was once, that students and initial training at the Judicial Academy must propose for judges of the basic court, judges of the criminal court and deputies of the Prosecutors. The Constitutional Court said that this provision is unconstitutional and now it will be what I think is absolutely right, which is that the members of the academy will not have to take the exam, will be evaluated there, because it is also a kind of school, the grades will be one to five, and they will be used as a criterion and a criteria for selecting judges when making a decision. Just what the VSS and the D.A.'s office are all about. I wouldn't have anything to say about today if there weren't any negative comments from the bench, from the mouth of those people who mentally supported the reform of the judiciary that it wasn't, a reform that led to the almost complete collapse of a system, where volunteer and political decisions were made and decided on the fates of many judges, many prosecutors. Now that the council meetings are proposed to be public, it's no good now. While they were not public, or until it was written in the law, it was not good that they were not public. Now that the public is not well, we need to find big rooms, technical opportunities, simply, it's impossible to hear and to know what someone can say in this assembly. It is now quite clear here, and as regards the VSS and the State Council, the session at which the decision is to be taken must be public, the decision must be reasoned and published on the website of the council, i.e. the State Council of Prosecutors. All of this keeps me convinced that, like other colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, in the voting day, I will give my vote, adopt this set of laws and draw closer to opening chapters 23 and 24 concerning the judiciary, thus making two more steps closer to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43103	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43104	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of Serbia on opening the first negotiating chapters with the EU and to wish the Honored Minister to contribute to this set of laws as quickly as possible to the opening and chapters relating to the judiciary, Chapter 23. A few months ago, the minister in the National Assembly said that the work on the full revision of the Law on Implementation and Security was under way, and he had already stated that it was a very bad law and that it was not even possible to amend and supplement it, but that the law would be completely amended, because even the most respected lawyers in the ministry are not able to apply it best and understand it. Of course, not because of them, but because of the bad way this law was written. So, the truth is that before 2011, there were laws that regulated this area and we heard that there was a post-war law on enforcement procedure from 1978, then in 2000, 2001 and the 2011 Law on Implementation and Security, still in force until the adoption of this law that is now on the agenda. Why did I count these laws? Unfortunately, each of the following laws regarding this area was getting worse and worse and what we hope is that this law will finally put an end to this bad series and that it will finally lead to a improvement in the judiciary. So the current law on enforcement and security adopted in 2011 has been amended twice and introduced a new profession that we have heard many times today, these are perpetrators. They are firstly called private perpetrators, although there is no basis for it, because they are primarily responsible for the execution of judgments, so they have public authority and what is important, to appoint and resolve them by the minister of justice, which is why this new law will be renamed public enforcement. Although it is planned in 2011, that perpetrators cannot function independently in terms of their lack of control over their own work, so the courts, the Ministry of Justice and control will have their own chambers, there were in practice numerous problems and poor examples of the application of this law. So, there have been a number of misunderstandings, first of all, about what the perpetrators are and what their powers are in the executive procedure itself, then what their relationship with the court is, according to the creditors and the debtors, as well as what means of law, or what kind of legal means the debtors have to bear against acts brought by the perpetrators themselves. Therefore, there was no clear definition of the difference between the court, or what the court is doing, and what the perpetrators are doing and who, when making decisions. Different rules also applied in the area of a higher court, so we had a major struggle between the court and the enforcer whose jurisdiction, where the courts usually retreated before the perpetrators. Based on this law that we consider to be bad from 2011, he primarily needed to protect the trustee. The provisions were non-transparent, contradictory without any logic and were definitely inapplicable in practice. It insisted on speed, but to some mechanical speed, all legal means were removed. The appeal was also removed, the suspension of the executive procedure, the return to the former state of affairs, the skill, everything that could slow down the procedure, the procedure itself. So it was removed with the desire to complete the process as soon as possible. So, then we had eviction and confiscation of assets, all in a brief process, which was mostly due to the damage of the debtors. This is the way the procedure was simplified, definitely yes, but there have been numerous complications that once led to citizens calling it a law against the citizens themselves. What should also be mentioned is that there were also abuses by certain perpetrators and that in this sense there are lawsuits. So the slowness continued to exist, she did not get rid of this mechanical rate, but that speed was forced to fast without balance and always one side by obligation was damaged. So, against the solutions that the court itself made, it was only possible to make a statement of the objection that the same court had again resolved, so that everything was going on within one court. This increased corruption, and there was no uniform treatment. All that we've heard today and based on these some of my objections that apply to the 2011 law, it can definitely be said that this was a very bad law that was passed in the area of justice. A working group has been formed within the Ministry, which has worked extremely seriously on these problems to find solutions to these problems in practice. So today, we have a whole new law that needs to change the enforcement procedure, more precisely to do the rights of debtors and trustees, as well as the work of enforcers and control over them. So the state is now trying to solve the problem of old claims, but with much greater control of the perpetrator, with lower tariffs and better protection of debtors. I would like to point out that about 209 perpetrators, as much as I found, as many as are currently in Serbia, about 100,000 items arrive annually. Half of them manage to solve in some time frame that is scheduled to solve, but the biggest problem is close to two million old cases that stand unresolved and that are older than 2012. So the new law is now tasked with establishing this balance between speed and legality. There will now also be procedural supervision, so there is still an objection which will be brought to the same court, as well as an appeal brought to the higher court and, of course, there will still be pre-processive supervision or disciplinary supervision. So, the objection remains and is being introduced as a new complaint. So, complaints can slow down the process, they can do something, but it's much more important, and the much greater goal of this law is the legality and security of the process itself, and that's what speed usually guarantees. What we need to shorten the time of the trial is just unequaling court practice, which we haven't had so far. The proposal for this law has clearly defined itself to avoid abuse and slowdown. There must then be accurate evidence to be delivered to the court, which will assess whether the appeal was established and clear deadlines for action will be resolved by the problem of silence and enforcement and courts. The new law, as the minister also suggested, defined that a change in the court fee was envisaged in order for the court to decide whether or not it was executed or implemented and the tariffs of the perpetrators for minor claims were reduced. The new law will extend the jurisdiction of the perpetrator, which is very important, so from now on they will be solely responsible for the collection of taxis and fines when the trustee is the Republic. The items that will remain in the court's jurisdiction are the execution of family relations and return to work. What I would particularly point out is a major problem of lagging out municipal problems, and that is precisely why the previous law did not allow these cases to be taken over by the perpetrators from the court, so they could not be taken over and that is why these cases remain unsolved. The majority of citizens have precisely problems with these communal issues, and this law concerns exactly them as a user of municipal services, so I would like to point out that I have found information that has been said by all those who have so far had problems with this law that they are satisfied that someone has finally heard their proposals and that finally someone has heard their demands and has introduced them into the law. Therefore, public contractors will take over all these old unfinished items that have been standing in drawers for years, of course, when public utility companies declare whether execution will continue the court or continue the executioner. If they decide to execute, the perpetrators will take over these pending items. Then, public utility companies still do not have the obligation to provide consumers with special instructions, i.e. from now on they do not have the obligation to give consumers instructions specifically recommended by the notice given before the execution, which is why they are urged to take great care of the regularity and regularity of payment and of keeping an account. The perpetrators also have an obligation to try twice to deliver a solution, unless it comes to that. So they have the right to hang it on the ad board and then there's an execution, but what's very significant is that from now on, there's a possibility of a legitimate complaint or appeal that can delay execution. Of course, the appeal is filed directly, brought to the court and if there is an excuse. The law we recently passed, the Law on the Right to Trial within a reasonable period of time, and this Law on Enforcement and Security, are definitely laws that will solve a large number of cases that are buried in drawers and that will introduce order into the Serbian judiciary that in these areas for decades has sorely reversed. This new law with amendments, which equally protect rights and debtors and creditors and, of course, with greater control of the work of the perpetrators and the possibility of appeal, should, in the most just way, resolve all these items and lay good foundations for further reforms and, of course, to open Chapter 23, which we expect next year. For all these reasons, the SNS will, of course, support both this law and other laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43105	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stevic, has the word, and then Mirjana Djokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43106	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, today is on the agenda of a set of very important judicial laws, whose adoption should contribute to creating an even better environment in the judiciary sector, but also to greater legal certainty and citizens and business entities in Serbia. Tonight, in addition, we are also discussing the draft law on enforcement and security, which will focus on the context of today's joint single search. I would like to say immediately that the SPS Parliamentary Group in Voting Day will support all the draft laws in this judicial package. Dear MPs, we have a brand new law ahead of us, since the obviously applicable 2011 law needed to be substantially amended. Otherwise, this law on enforcement and security was introduced for the first time as an independent body whose powers were to speed up the procedure for the execution of judgments. So, in addition to the judicial enforcers established by the current procedural legislation, in order to be more effective and faster to execute judgments and other enforcement acts, an institute of enforcers has been established as a new judicial profession in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia. Just to remind you that the perpetrators of this law are defined as persons of public trust and public authority holders appointed and executed by the minister of justice. The aim of the legislator was to ensure a much faster achievement and protection of trustees' rights because the existing method of enforcement was not sufficiently effective. Many court rulings and other enforcement acts were carried out slowly, the execution proceedings lasted for many years, so that not only the creditors were significantly damaged, but also the debtors who had to in addition to the main debt and the costs of execution calmed down and the baseline amounts on behalf of the legal tight interest which, in certain cases, was significantly higher than the main debt. Among the injured were citizens and legal persons, but very often the state, public enterprises and institutions. At the same time, it was also necessary to ensure the legality of this accelerated procedure and the necessary degree of procedure because the rights of debtors had to be protected and that this precisely security procedure would not jeopardise their right to appeal and to respect the circumstances of the establishment of the debt, in order not to be illegally damaged. Article 36(2) The Constitution of the Republic says that everyone has the right to appeal or another remedy against a decision to decide on his right. I believe that this fact was also one of the reasons for the adoption of a new law on enforcement and security. The 2011 law has been amended several times, I think, if I'm not mistaken three times, in order to eliminate the shortcomings observed by the application of this law. The observed shortcomings are numerous and it is very important to remove them so that the Law on Implementation and Security can continue to serve the purpose for which it was brought. What is seen as a problem is the very methodology of speeding up the executive procedure, primarily because of the fact that some of the general legal institutes, primarily the right to appeal, which is a guarantee of two-stageness as a fundamental constitutional right to enter court, have been removed from the law on enforcement and security. Instead of appeal, an objection to a solution has been brought, which does not have the same legal force or legal consequences. This legal provision shadowed the accelerated enforcement procedure, as the debtor did not have full legal protection, which means that the procedure was not fully and in accordance with the law. Then, there is no institution of art in force to determine the material facts relevant to the enforcement procedure, which could have been misdetermined in the judicial or other enforcement proceedings. However, the courts in practice employ experts who have called themselves professional persons, who are essentially conducting a skill-making process without whom it is really not possible to carry out a fair and fairer enforcement procedure. Because the regulation of some significant legal institutes has been shortened, many provisions have become unclear and thus inapplicable in a valid way, as they have caused legal uncertainty for participants in the enforcement procedure, primarily because of different case-laws, i.e. different court proceedings. Also, in the applicable 2011 Implementation and Security Act, the principle of paralysis or mixed system has been incorporated, as it is otherwise called in implementing enforcement, meaning that both the court and the executioner can carry out appropriate types of enforcement, e.g. The sale of immovable property and movable items for the execution of a financial claim can be carried out both by the court and by the perpetrators. It is understood that the court and executioner would not be able to carry out the same execution at the same time. It is not possible for both the court and the executioner to carry out the same financial claim by the same executive debtor. Then, in the applicable law, there is a domain of exclusive competence in implementing enforcement. Either a court or only an executor can carry out a certain execution. Under the applicable law, the court is solely competent to implement decisions on family relations and to execute to return employees to work. Executors shall be solely responsible for carrying out the request on the basis of municipal and similar services. Starting from these and other observed shortcomings of the applicable law, the proposings are determined for the creation of a new law which would remove ambiguities and ensure the enforcement procedure in accordance with the Constitution and the law, as it is not only for the purpose of speeding up the procedure that the constitutionality and legality of legal procedures in a highly sensitive legal procedure is required to carry out, i.e. the mandatory payment of debt on any basis. The objectives of the law are given in the very explanation, where it is said that the new law provides for a balance between the speed of the enforcement procedure and the unification of the case law by returning the appeal as a law protection institute, then extending the jurisdiction of the perpetrators to ensure an accelerated enforcement procedure. The acts of the executioner will be subject to the legal remedy, i.e. the objection to which the court will decide. This will clearly provide for procedures that will eliminate unequal court practice. Then, the amendments, or the new law, have transformed the general part of the law, so it is now more transparent and systematic, which will make it more tempting and its solutions for participants more legally secure. The law systematically regulates essential issues, namely: 1) the mandatory enforcement of an application based on foreign or domestic executive documents or on credible documents; 2) the application security procedure and 3) the position of the perpetrator. I would like to point out some of the legal solutions that I consider to be significantly secured two-stage in the process, because in future, the complaints of the lower courts, the basic and the business will be decided by the senior courts, i.e. the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court of Commerce. Only the court can now make a solution to enforcement based on an executive document, a solution to fines, a solution to the replacement of fines by prison, a solution to a request for the exemption of a judge or executioner, a solution to the proposal for a return to the previous situation, a solution to counter-execution, a solution to judicial penalty, a solution to a security procedure, a finding of a law of law or a temporary and a prior measure, etc. So such legal solutions strengthen the legal security of citizens. When it comes to the position of perpetrators and their legal powers, it is important to underline that, although citizens most often call them private perpetrators, they are doing a job of public interest. They shall not act in favour of either the Executive Trustee, nor for the benefit of the Executive Debtor, nor for the benefit of the Court. The essence of their work is that they take great care of the settlement of the trusted one, but not at all costs and without respect for the law. They are obliged to respect the law, but also the rights of the debtor. Also, the perpetrators do not represent the trustees executed, but rather their powers, which are very precise, draw directly from the law on enforcement and security. So, although it represents the interest of the executive trustee, the executive trustee cannot either take away their powers or add any authority to them. Such a legal solution contributes to the equal position of the parties in the judicial procedure and that is good. In the event of overrule or failure to comply with the law, sanctions shall be provided for for the perpetrator, including the exemption and withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out this activity. The responsibility of the executor must be in line with the broader powers granted to this law, which primarily relate to a wider circle of enforcement which will be exclusively within their jurisdiction. It is important for citizens to be given the same position in court proceedings. This applies to enforcement procedures, whether they are debtors or creditors. I believe that the better solutions offered by this law, this principle of equality before the court, will be achieved. With respect to all the efforts that the task force has made in drawing up a new law on enforcement and security, which has been significantly improved compared to the previous one, I must say that during the public debate the proposed draft law on enforcement and security has been a series of objections, some of which the working group has followed and amended before the adoption of the proposal. What is not said today, or I have not heard, and what is valuable, is that the Chamber of Executives was particularly active, which is of paramount importance, because the perpetrators through their work were better than others could in practice face all the negativity of the 2011 law, so I believe that their valuable experience could be more significantly implemented in the process of drafting the law. However, I am not sure that this is because the Executive Board of the Republic of Serbia's Executive Board addressed the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and addressed more than 30 objections to certain provisions of the Law on Implementation and Security. Therefore, dear knees and colleagues, I call on you to make a contribution to the active participation and in the debate in particular to look at all the objections, so that we do not come to the situation that, because of the possible unconstitutional, insufficiently clear and ambiguous provisions of the proposed law, we are forced to make amendments immediately after the adoption of the law. For these reasons and for believing that the law on enforcement and security, as well as other laws in the judicial set of laws, will contribute to greater legal certainty for citizens, once again to say that the SPS MP group in the voting day will support the draft law on enforcement and security and any other proposals in this search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43107	Thank you. The People's Messenger Mirjana Djokovic has the word, followed by Susana Spasojevic. Here you go, Mirjana.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43108	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, is in front of us today at our plenary debate set of judicial laws that are of paramount importance for the functioning of our state system. The law first on the agenda of today's prey is the law on execution and security that was brought in 2011 and which has been changed three times so far. The primary objective of this law is to speed up the executive procedure. Realising this legitimate and meaningful intention also serves as a new judicial profession in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is precisely this methodology of speeding up the process that is controversial because the speed makes it clear that the process is being sacrificed and certain uncertainty is being caused. Otherwise, the basic ideas of this law are: to reach a compromise between the speed of the executive procedure and the uniformity of the practice through courts; to extend the jurisdiction of the perpetrator; to redistribute the most important acts of the enforcer to a legal remedy, to an appeal on which the court decides to level the practice of the enforcer in the area of the same basic or commercial court; to redecorate the general part of the executive procedure and make it transparent and systematic; to achieve clear solutions that need to avoid misunderstandings in practice; to resolve the issues of which the law is silent; to regulate certain provisions in order to obtain more legal certainty. A special place in this law has a complaint as a legal remedy, and a very difficult question is when a complaint should be allowed. It, as a revolutionary legal remedy at first sight, slows the procedure against the current law, but the fact is that the new law does not allow appeal against all solutions. It is allowed against the solutions adopted on a proposal for enforcement on the basis of an executive document, against a solution to suspend the enforcement procedure, against the solutions made to the objection to the enforcement solution on the basis of a credible document and against the solutions made on the counter-execution proposal. The complaint is an expression of the tendency to level the practice of basic courts and economic courts and is only allowed against solutions that are most important to parties and courts. As far as the objection is concerned, it is submitted only by the parties and only by the law, unlike the appeal that is filed whenever the law provides for a solution. The purpose of the complaint is to enable the examination of the legality and regularity of solutions which can significantly affect the position of parties and thereby protect the interests of parties. The particular gravity of the complaint is that the objection is an initial act allowing judicial control of the solutions made by the perpetrators. This results in a level playing field, quality of protection and judicial control. As far as the perpetrators are concerned, they are often in practice, heard in the people, called private perpetrators because they are chosen by executive creditors. It's the wrong name, although it's a lot of hearing and it's pretty disillusioned, but it really doesn't have any legal basis. We need to be clear that the perpetrators are doing a job of public interest. They do not act in favour of the Executive Trustee, neither for the benefit of the Executive Debtor, nor for the benefit of the Court. They're looking out for an executive trustee, but not unilaterally. They must respect the law, but also the rights of the debtor. This actually means that the government of public enforcement is established in the public interest, not in private. Public perpetrators are an important element of the new law and are the basic holders of enforcement. The new law also regulated outside the procedural business status of the enforcer. By law, perpetrators must have passed a judicial examination. They were appointed by the minister of justice indefinitely and depended on their will as long as they remain public perpetrators. Once appointed public executioner shall remain that until the term of office has been completed, and before that the term of office may cease, if it is resolved or at its request. For this function, it is specific to seek dignity for the work of this profession. The Ethics Code brings a chamber of public executioners, and standards of professional conduct are passed by a minister of justice. There is one negative condition that prevents a person from being appointed as an perpetrator, if in the previous period there has been an end to another, or judicial activity, then the person cannot even be a public enforcer. Public executioners have their own Chamber of Public Executors, which is an expression of their right to self-organize. One of the objections to the current Law is that it does not allow effective supervision of the work of public executioners. The new law stipulates that the work of a public enforcer is supervised by the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber of Public Executors. The public enforcement officer for his work corresponds disciplinaryly, due to violations of laws and other regulations. One of the major disciplinary injuries is the delay in making decisions in the executive procedure, or the security procedure. It is clear that all who applaud to be appointed public perpetrators must, therefore, have passed a judicial examination, and those who are already appointed as a judicial exam must pass by 1 January 2018. As for the Law on Court Orders, he had to make certain changes, precisely because of the law of execution and security. The appeal was returned to the executive procedure, decided by senior courts, depending on who made the solution that the appeal refuted. The court's regulation law has properly regulated the evaluation of judicial assistants, and the High Council of the Court is obliged to adopt an act on criteria and criteria for assessing the work of judicial assistants within 60 days. As regards the Law on Judges, a supplement has been proposed, by writing down specific rules for determining the expertise of the candidate for the judge who is elected for the first time to perform judicial functions in the criminal and basic court. The amendments and additions relating to the High Council of the judiciary include the introduction of the highest transparency of the work of this body, which includes public sessions of the High Council of the judiciary, reasoned decisions and publication of decisions on the work on the website of the High Council of the judiciary. In order to implement the recommendations for the negotiating chapter 23, the publication of rules of procedure, other general acts and annual reports on the website of the High Council of the judiciary is prescribed. It also introduces the principle of public work by the State's senior prosecutors, although there is also a optional possibility of holding a session closed to the public, if the interests of the public order require it, or, in addition, it is about protecting the confidentiality of the data. When it comes to the Law of Court Taxes, the fact is that forced payment of court fees does not satisfy. It is effective when the tax is charged by legal persons and companies, when the payment is refused through banks held by tax collectors and NBS, but when the taxpayer is a natural person, forced payment is not effective. In doing so, the responsibility for the forced payment of the fee to be paid by the natural persons is entrusted to the public executioners. In the voting day with my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, I will certainly support all these legal proposals that were on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43109	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Susana Spasojevic, and then Dragan Paulovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43110	I thank the chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, all the draft laws that are on the agenda today for the joint aim to improve the quality of life of citizens by protecting security, protecting public order and peace, human rights and freedoms and certainly fair treatment. Today, in my presentation, I will talk about the draft law on enforcement and security. From today's presentation of Minister Selakovic, we have heard, indeed, an exhaustive analysis of the current Law on Implementation and Security and the conclusions that pointed out that it was necessary to make a whole new law in this area. Although the applicable law adopted in 2011 is the weakest law in the area of enforcement, it is important for him to say that for the first time in Serbia's legal system an institute of public notebooks has been introduced. However, this law is not clearer and closer defined, nor has the powers of public enforcement been defined in the executive procedure nor the relationship with the court, according to the debtors, according to the creditors, and even moreover, it is that the law abolished certain legal means of which is certainly the most important appeal, but the return to the previous situation, the skill, the postponement of the executive procedure. Such a legal solution is an enforcement and security procedure at some speed of resolution, but a kind of legal uncertainty and legal void was created in the early part which caused, or mainly caused, damage to the parties. That is why it is precisely the aim of the legislator of this new law to find an ideal compromise solution, to establish some kind of balance to keep the parties' rights protected on one side without losing the process at speed. It is certainly important to take care of the effective and rapid protection of creditors, but not to restrict and exclude the rights of debtors or to degrade the personality of debtors or members of his family. Today we have heard a lot about the advantages and disadvantages of the appeal, but it is also important that the proposal for this law restores the appeal in the executive procedure, which will certainly provide better legal protection for executive debtors. Until now, the debtors had only at their disposal the right to object to the first-degree solution resolved by the court that reached the solution and so that the control of all the judicial acts in the executive proceedings ended at the level of local primary and commercial courts. Although appeal is lost at speed, it is important to return the appeal to the executive procedure to respect legality, which is the objective and priority of every serious rule of law. When we talk about the provisions of the laws governing the sale of immovable property in cases where it sells by public competition in the first and second attempts. It failed, the immovableity is sold by direct contract and in this case it is envisaged that the sales price of immovable property cannot be below 70% of the estimated value of immovable property. There are two points of view on the occasion of this member. On the one hand, protect the interest of debtors and limit that immovableity cannot be sold below 70% of the estimated value of immovable property, and on the other hand, one logical question is raised. If the real estate could not be sold in the second attempt at a public tender for more than 50% of the estimated value, it could be sold by a direct contract by 70%. It just shows that there was no interest in that kind of immovableity at that price or under those conditions, so I think it would be more acceptable to have another solution. It does not necessarily mean that I am right to exclude from the law the provision that 70% of the estimated value of immovableity is something below which the sale of immovable property is authorised, but in order to respect the protection of the interest of the executive debtor, which is affirmed by the proposal of this law, it was possible to foresee, or determine the lower limit below which the immovableity cannot be sold, or not below the level of claim of the executive trustee, with the prior consent of the executive trustee. I think that if the immovableity were sold for a lower price, the executive debtor would be put in a position to remain in debt to the non-intentional amount of the claim, which would condition new enforcement procedures and enforce some other asset of the debtor, if there is and would certainly endanger both the stability and the economic and material situation of the debtor. Also, when it comes to the registration of the property of an executive debtor, I refer to the provisions of Articles 152, paragraphs 3 and 4, which determines that the right of the property of the executive debtor in cases where another person is registered as owner, the right of property shall be entered at the request of the court, and only after the registration of the court shall the decision on the execution be reached. I believe that it is necessary to provide for the possibility that a public enforcement officer, at the same time as the request for the registration of public property, should request and the entry of a notice on the sale of the immovable property in question, and on the basis of the enforcement solution. For what? This would deprive the executive's intention that, in the meantime, from enrolment of property to a solution of execution that is not covered, it could alienate the immovableity. We know that Article 19 of this law provides for a ban on alienation of immobility, but only when an execution solution is made. So we have some empty time, which allows the executive debtor to alienate the immovableity and thus damage the executive trustee. I would, if you allow ministers, only for the end to quote you, and I really liked what you said, that it is important that the bill prevents the collapse of our legislation, when it comes to the executive procedure, and that this law equally protects both the public interest and the interest of debtors and the interest of creditors. We, as the mandated representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia said, Neđo Jovanovic, will support the entire set of proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43111	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Dragan Paulovina, and then by Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43112	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, I am very pleased to address with my fellow Members and fellow Members with the subject of legal enforcement as one of the most important legal areas, which in recent years has had a convincing change in relation to all previous laws that this area has been regulated, so I would like to express my views in a dazzling way, because this is a subject that can be very much discussed, given the complexity of the issues that executive law contains within me. I would focus my exposure mainly on the position of procedural parties in the process, and through a shorter display I would start from the history of these rules in the area of executive law, as a product of those times in which the legal execution suffered changes on its development path, especially in relation to the position of executive parties in that procedure, creditors and debtors. In a broader sense, the executive procedure is a consequential extension of a litigator or someone else, in which the settlement of the debtor's trustee's claims is resolved. The relationship and position of the parties in the conduct of the debtor-indebted relationship, and they depended on the law to the law and the time in which the law was in force, so I can freely say that, in view of that, the position of the debtor was once more favourable than it is today. In this regard, I believe that in this respect, the draft law on enforcement and security, in relation to all previous ones, has established a fair position of the executive trustee, rather than before, and has set a place for the debtor, as is the law laid down in other countries in the environment. In view of this evolutionary development of executive law, I find an interesting history of the passing of these laws through time. So I would mention that the independence of this legal area, started with the adoption of the law on enforcement and security in the first half of the last century, in the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, was more specifically in 1930. I found that the professional part of our public, which deals with the historical rules, expressed the view that it was an extremely well-conceived legal text, which was separated from the civil code at the time and which, according to its legal substrate, was the expression of modern law and a kind of modern. It is interesting that the draft law on enforcement and security is now in the assembly procedure, bearing the same name as the current law and both the laws of the ancient 1930s. A turning point in the application of the first Law on Implementation was made when we became well-known The Law on the Interruption of Continuity, with the laws of the Old Yugoslavia, when the Law on Enforcement and Security of the 1930s was put out of effect, but because of its solidity in making, provisions that were of exceptional importance, for the time being, continued the tradition of application in the form of legal rules, which were valid until the end of the 1970s, when the new Law on Implementation was passed in 1978, which the Minister today began his speech. We have heard a lot about this law today, but I would also add that the product of socialist time in which social property had primate and supra-domination in other forms of property and the professional public had a lot of concrete reasons for not doubting that the overprotection of debtors was certainly one of the bad concepts of the law. The position of debtors in the executive procedure was unwarrantedly easier than it is today, and was seen in a wide range of legal medicines, to which they were required during the executive procedure. In addition to the objections and complaints about the decision on the complaint, he had other procedural complaints at his disposal, which made the procedure particularly complex and long-term. It could be said that the executive procedure of that time was often broken into a very long procedure in which the trustee had to wait, for the realization of his claims, until the debtor exhausted all his legal resources, which essentially did not change in the process, except that he only got on time. Viewed through the recent past, with the amendments to these rules, the adoption of the Law on the Executive Procedure since 2000 and when amendments to the legal rules have been implemented in this area, the efforts of the legislator have been the establishment of a balance in the position of creditors, debtors, in a way that narrows the use of procedural means. To note that the idea of a private enforcer who has lived through the adoption of the Law on Enforcement and Security since 2011, which for the first time introduced a new judicial profession, is a private perpetrator. The applicable law on enforcement and security has great weaknesses. As an example, I would say that the urgency principle states that the debtor is unable to delay the execution of the debt, which in my opinion is not a good solution. It is most likely that in the adoption of this standard, the legislator led by the idea that the delay was something that should be eradicated forever, in order to limit the movement of the executive procedure in time, because it is known that the executive procedure of the trustee was known to grow into a larger sea than a litigator, only because of the number of legal means that the debtor was skillfully used, along with the delay of execution. I believe that if a delay is possible in other court proceedings which the debtor has been skillfully used along with a delay in the execution. For example, in parallel, if a convict is sentenced to a prison sentence, allowed to delay the execution of the sentence, Article 59. The law on enforcement of criminal sanctions, in order to get the job done and to make the proceeds, to help the family, why it could not also be made possible for the debtor to make the payment of the share or the full amount of the debt. Therefore, in the draft law, it begins with Article 120, and on the other hand, depending on who submits a motion for a postponement, whether the trustee, debtor or third party, the public enforcer makes a decision to postpone, if there are reasonable reasons for this, which is new in the executive procedure and exceeds this so far, a bad solution. The second lack of a valid law is the absence of two-stageness, the draft law on enforcement and security, the decision-making, the introduction of an appeal, which is a fair solution, so that the decision taken in the enforcement procedure under the applicable law would not be the only and definitive one, and the executive procedure ended without judicial control, legality, which is a lot of words here today. The next significant change proposed concerns the principles of disposition, the trustee, or his decision to initiate or not to initiate an executive procedure and his choice between the court and the executioner, or whether the case will be entrusted to one or another institution. The draft law on enforcement and security overcomes this alternative solution by eliminating the law establishing competition between the court and the enforcer. The draft law on enforcement and security provides the full enforcement to public enforcement authorities, except in those matters concerning family rights, because of the sensitivity of this particular important legal problem. With this concept of executive procedure, in which public enforcement authorities will, after the entry into force of the Bills, in time, carry out the takeover of all initiated cases whose number is huge, is a fundamental contribution, not only to discharging courts, but also a significant contribution to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which is equivalent to having a significant financial discharge. The draft law against the current law on enforcement and security has taken into account the control of public perpetrators which has not been so far. We have to admit that the trend in which it is normal to be obliged, which has come to life in the past decades, in which every single thing is owed, is no longer worth it. I believe that the draft law on enforcement and security of good concepts is the basis not only for a better position of the trustee in the executive process, but also the basis for raising the awareness of legal and business culture to a higher level of legal participants, which is a significant contribution to Serbia's current international integration with the EU. Furthermore, the bill achieves an important objective, which is better and safer to protect the rights of citizens and their property, and as more humane than before the SNS, I propose that MPs accept this proposal and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43113	Thank you, Mr. Half. The word has a People's MP, Nedo Jovanovic, and let Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43114	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, given that in the principle of discussion, I presented the position of the SPS parliamentary group in relation to the proposed text of the law, I would ask the minister only to carry out another short analysis of another part of the law, the proposed law, which has been little said today, and these are public enforcers. It is doubtless that in that part too, this law deserves to be affirmatively mentioned. Given that there is now a much more stringent control over the work of public enforcement officers and that both judicial control and control by the Public Executive Chamber. By the Court of Justice, the control will undoubtedly be carried out through procedures and decision-making by appeal of the decisions of the perpetrators that are now prescribed by this law, and as regards the Public Executive Chamber, this control will be more related to the work of public enforcement authorities, through their dignity, professionalism and all other parameters that they must deal with in their work. Of course, there is also a need to support the proposed solution, which implies increasing the capacity of public enforcement professionals, in particular with regard to public enforcement obligations to pass a judicial examination. However, honourable ministers, I would only ask the question whether we will be able to solve one problem in order to avoid certain discrimination between public enforcement officers, as the proposed text of the law states that the perpetrators appointed by 1 July 2016 are obliged to pass the judicial exam by 1 January 2018. Of course, in any case, their professional potential must be at that level that deserves and deserves their position, or status. However, in the event that this is a shorter period than two years, on 1 June 2016, 1 January 2018, if there are perpetrators, and those who took the judicial exam have failed to pass the judicial exam and have received, by law, a ban on passing the exams within two years, will they be effectively disabled in this way to provide their status as enforcer through a passed judicial examination? Is there only the possibility that this time of two years, which is undoubtedly necessary to form, extend or bind to a start that does not have to be the beginning of the day of law-making? So, only in this direction do the perpetrators be fully equal and have equal status. We did not tolerate any amendment in this sense, but we felt that this could be thinking on the basis of which all perpetrators would be brought under the principle of equality before the law and equality before the law. What I started in the principle discussion is about the provisions of the law, namely the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and the time to give a very clear answer. When I said that today, you too, dear ministers, have confirmed that when assessing candidates for the holders of judicial functions, that they are “particularly prominent”, these assessments are mostly either casual or based on subjective views of judges who form a college of judges from whom the candidate who is applying for a judge, or the holder of a judicial office, comes. The question arises – on what basis is it earned, or is it deserved to be rated “in particular to stand out”? This is precisely the reason why this status with the assessment "specially stands out" will be checked right before the VSS, in order to establish, on the basis of the criteria that the VSS will undoubtedly bring, whether its assessment is "specificly highlighted" by an appraisal, established, based on its knowledge or not. If it isn't, then it's just proof of what we're fixing right now, and that's you, so-called. "Adhesive evaluations" at the level of judges, something to be eliminated, avoided and based on clear and exact indicators. Of course I'm going to ask you in that direction to stimulate and what VSS started as a pilot project and stopped, and not only to evaluate candidates who would be or will not be holders of judicial functions, but to have that regulation that was brought in, remember, and returned, at one point or one time as a pilot project, begun to live, which is the assessment of judges, current judges, the current holders of judicial functions. Why? Because certain shortcomings in the regulation have occurred, because, based on this rule, all the judges were suddenly great, they all earned extremely good results, or assessed with a good estimate, and essentially the exact data relating to what the judge's essential work was, did not give that result, but rather the opposite. This means that judges should be assessed in continuity and that these assessments should be based on very clear and precise criteria, that these criteria reflect everything that the judge carries as his burden of work, not only in terms of the urgency and quality of work, but in everything else that is related to the trial, that is, the judgments, the conduct of cases, etc., on which basis we will make a good selection and a good classification of judges who deserve and deserve to be holders of judicial functions in relation to those who do not deserve it and do not deserve it, and then it is logical to break up with that so-called. "false solidarity" that the presidents of the courts are finally determined according to those colleagues in their courts that do not meet these conditions and that, in accordance with the law, such and sanctioned, they are adequately determined in accordance with this law. I would really no longer, really not only have the SPS found in this set of laws something worthy of a particular attention in terms of quality, our contribution to this will always be to this discussion and this discussion that I have repeated in relation to what I said in the principle debate just implies a contribution that, if possible, we will improve the quality of this law for which we will certainly vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43115	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43116	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Jovanovic is an exceptional lawyer and he is very well able to place some thesis and that he is very well represented. Its exposure showed that some perpetrators had very skillfully resorted to lobbying and introduced him to something that apparently included a part of them, and that is the obligation of the perpetrator that, in the future since the application of this law, all perpetrators must have passed a judicial exam. At this point, about 30% of the executors have not passed a judicial exam. They are subject to the obligation to pass the examination within two years of the entry into force of the law. Theoretically, you're absolutely right. It is possible that someone falls under a two-year ban on passing a judicial exam for failing the exam. However, the factual situation is completely different. We don't have any executors under this ban right now, which is a good thing, because then we don't have to intervene in this text of the bill. Is it possible that this could happen to someone? Of course it is possible, but from the moment the law comes into force and before it starts to apply, it absolutely makes a certain situation in which everyone can be found, and here I appeal to those who are in the race, as they say, who are in the game, who are now perpetrators, and who have no exam to prepare well. I'm sure most of them will take that test and pass. There's a question here, and I'm going to again explain why we resorted to this. On the one hand, public executioners are being extended powers. Conducting executions in a convincing percentage moves right on them. We need quality, professional quality of the people who will do this job, and this professional quality will certainly experience its confirmation through passing a state-level expert exam for working in judicial authorities and performing the tasks of certain judicial professions. The guidelines are aimed at better implementing the current Council of Europe's recommendation on enforcement, which is Recommendation No 11 Rev 25 of 2009. The conditions of the candidate's expertise for the perpetrators are foreseen, as well as that these conditions must be natural complexity and responsibility, as well as the powers entrusted to them, and that a high level of training is necessary. In most member states of the Council of Europe, out of 47 countries, this includes a specific exam for the perpetrators. And without that examination, the executioner can't perform that action. However, these guidelines provide that, I quote, the training, that is, the skills required by the perpetrators, should be set at the same level as the requirements for judges and lawyers. Since our perpetrators function as a judicial profession, they've been working since half of 2012, so for three and a half years now, it's a good time that until we have a large number of executors who have not passed the judicial exam, we introduce this obligation. I think this is something that will only contribute to the quality of doing their job. It is not the essence of the functioning of the judiciary only at speed, but also that in quality and to this we must pay much more attention in time before us, and quality will certainly be improved by equating practice and creating much greater certainty, as well as by adopting a law that, according to that degree of certainty and the fulfillment of the normised factual situations, is significantly ahead of the applicable law. As for your observations when you spoke about the evaluation of the judge's assistants, and the observations regarding the judge's assessment, you probably accidentally missed one thing, but since the beginning of July 2015, we are not in the pilot evaluation program of judges, or bearers of judicial functions. Moreover, since July of this year, we have a rule on the criteria and criteria for the assessment of judges and presidents, which will now say that some six months of application of that regulation and certainly that I am someone who will support the members of the VSS from the order of judges, but also the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because he is also in office, but essentially the judge, the first among equal, every initiative to carry out the evaluations of judges both in individual courts and in the whole system. Somewhere it is good if it is an extraordinary evaluation, somewhere it is good that every judge knows where it stands in relation to criteria and criteria, that we as citizens and as a state system see how this is done by the rules that we ourselves have made, respecting the most European standards and in collaboration with European institutions, in order to assess all our judges at one time. Of course, one owner doesn't make spring. This one assessment is not enough to get a complete and realistic picture, but it is good because for the first time since 1993 we have these criteria and criteria that are not temporary, but are permanent. Of course, their application will in time show where some failures were made eventually. The opinion which judges, particularly the judges of the elderly, who have an entire working life in the judiciary, most often says that the norms set in these rules compared to those standards that were in force 25, 30, 40 years ago are extremely mild and low. I don't remember that time. I wasn't even born then. I can't comment on that. But those people who certainly have one professional integrity I believe in. It just shows how much the ongoing training of judicial officials in our courts and prosecutors is necessary for officials. Well-prepared for the application of new regulations, train judges with these new regulations and, I will end up with a big and significant confession, we have been recognised that the Code on the Protection of Alertors, which was brought here in the National Assembly, which has started to apply since half this year, has indeed been effective and effective both in yours and in Ivana's hometown of Uzic recently, as far as I have learned through the media, that within one day the Supreme Court in Užica has made a decision on the measures that protected the alarmer and returned him to work. This is something that is a confirmation of one entirely different way of making regulations, passing laws, good preparation, because I will remind you, by the start of the application of the law, by July 2015, that training was organised for 1,059 judges in Serbia. If you have in mind that we have more than 2,600 judges in Serbia, if you have in mind that a good part of the judges, somewhere around 700 judges work in courts of special jurisdiction, that in these cases the courts of general jurisdiction are competent, that means that we have from judges of general jurisdiction when we refuse, say, the Supreme Court of Cassation, but that training was conducted for close or slightly more than 60% of judges. So two-thirds of the judges went through that training and that went well and that's the real indicator of how the regulation should be prepared in future time. There are also the results of the Law on Infringements. You remember, together when we passed that law, that law yields extremely good results. As Col. Stojiljkovic mentioned, the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judges within a reasonable period of time, I see that judges are worth preparing for January 1st for the moment when the application of the law will begin. I am convinced that with good preparation and a new Law on Enforcement and Security, if adopted by the Assembly, we will show that justice is a system that requires much more careful and prepared access. The judiciary sometimes the best thing, if it's brought into it in a bad way, it can reject it and make it the worst possible. We have here as a whole society, as a system of this lesson learned, unfortunately, from our own mistakes in the past, when I say my own, from the mistakes of the state in the past. With this kind of approach, along with the opening of Chapter 23 next year, where we will get the plan that we ourselves have made, I am convinced that we will get the judiciary according to the extent of our citizens, whom the citizens will have to trust, and on your remark the judges need to satisfy the highest degree of dignity to perform this high public function, but as the French say nobles close, the one who has the highest dignity, it must bear the highest responsibility. Therefore, it is a good thing that we adopted that rule after so many years, that it is applied and that it will begin to produce results that will paint a real picture of the situation among our judicial function holders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43117	The word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43118	Thank you. With respect to your exceptional insight, I just need to thank you for the information and for something I didn't know, which I must admit, in the application of the regulation which is related to the evaluation of judges' work in courts, which I am extremely pleased with, that before you and I know that the judges are still, especially those unsupervised, burdened with a huge number of cases, but not burdened, but allowed them to be burdened with so many cases, and then I prefer that they started such an evaluation. As far as respects, respected ministers, public executives, so that there is no misunderstanding, and that, personally as a lawyer, I advocate that those who are public authorities, in a specific case, private perpetrators, must be at the maximum level of professional references, in order to carry out their work in a quality way. There wasn't as much lobbying as there was any ignorance of whether we had, we might have, the perpetrators who would fall under this so-called. A ban, a two-year restraining order. What you will always be supported in is your endurance and struggle for the perpetrators, public notebooks and judges to have professional references to the needs for the work they do. We don't have a dilemma here. Finally, since you mentioned you, me and Ivan, I have to say something that is extremely realistic, I hope that you will not have any objection to what I'm about to say, which is that you and I and Ivana are from a city where the judiciary is respectable, a predominantly economic court, and higher and basic courts, and even a criminal court really deserve to be evaluated as courts in which very, very good works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43119	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, and let the MP Marko Atlagic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43120	The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the strategic definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose backbone here in the National Assembly and the backbone of that government makes SNS, is the Euro-integration and accession of our country to the ordered EU countries. December 14th 2015 was a historic day for our government, for our country, for our citizens, and in this sense I wish, Mr Minister, for you as a member of the Government to congratulate you on your industriousness, on your responsibility and on your dedicated work and the introduction of Serbia into economically advanced and developed countries, both in economic and legal terms. The historic day is for the Republic of Serbia because yesterday chapters 32 and 35 were opened. In front of us, or before the Government of the Republic of Serbia, there is a huge deal, but I expect, and appreciateing your responsibility and your commitment to the European path of Serbia, that in the beginning of next year chapters 23 and 24 relating to the rule of law, human and minority rights, etc. As far as the law itself is concerned, the laws we are considering today in the National Assembly, I must say that the roof law is a systemically new law on enforcement and security. You are indeed in your opening statement in academic and understandable ways to bring out to ordinary citizens all the things this law makes. What I want to say as a MP is that this law returns to the Constitution guaranteed the right of citizens, which is the right to use the appeal as a legal remedy. So far, the appeal as a legal remedy in executive proceedings has not been present, but has already been a complaint, and in some cases, when it comes to enforcement solutions, the application for an assessment of legality. Of course, neither objection nor request nor from far away have the same legal fact as there is a complaint. Why is the appeal significant and to whom is it significant? The complaint is primarily in the public interest. The complaint is important from the aspect and executive debtor, the complaint is significant from the aspect of the executive trustee. Why is the appeal important? She's also very important to the work of the courts. Why the work of the courts? Because through the appeal procedure, the work of both the basic and the economic courts and the unification of the work of all courts will certainly contribute to reducing the appeal in those proceedings when it is quite clear that the complaint cannot have a positive effect. What else is significant in the appeal process? It is significant that these laws strictly specify the conditions which the appeal, as an integral element, must contain. The contested solution, of course, lists certain facts, but it is not enough just to state the facts, but must also be accompanied by the appeal by evidence of these facts in order for the second-degree court to have a complete document to consider. In the event that the appeal is not complete and does not contain all the components of the second-degree court, the appeal may be rejected as incomplete. What's more important is that the appeal avoids ping pong effect, which is when second-degree courts have returned to the first-degree court for re-judgment, and first-degree courts in that re-determination have made the same solutions as in the previous appeal solution, and then so has the bewitched circle. Of course, in order to protect the trial within a reasonable period, the urgency of the conduct of the executive proceedings is also foreseen, by the fact that the second-degree body is obliged to adopt a solution within 15 days and to send that solution to the parties within the next three days. What I want to point out, and as far as the court's exclusive jurisdiction is concerned, is the joint sale of immovable and mobile matters. It's in the sole jurisdiction of the court. The combined procedures are in question, i.e. the sale of immovable property is conditioned by the sale of mobility and vice versa. It's mostly factory halls that are functionally connected. It may be more halls, but of course there are moving things in the halls, which are machines. So one procedure in the same place estimates the same total price, and through public competition, there are sales of both movable and immovable things. In the event that the second public competition fails, there is a separation of the process of selling immovable things from the process of selling moving things. If a joint sale of movable and immovable items is carried out, the court shall determine the amount of the total assets shall be waste on mobility and the amount of such assets shall be waste on movable matters, so that, when it comes to the settlement of executive debtors, it shall be carried out separately. I have to point out that one and another trial is run by a judge. What I would like to point out, and as far as the court's jurisdiction is concerned, although this law on enforcement and security of much greater jurisdiction has been given to court enforcement officers and clearly and precisely defined the role of judicial enforcers, I will nevertheless remain in the court's jurisdiction, which is exclusively in the jurisdiction of the court, which refers to the executions in family relations, these are members of the law from 268 to 280 and refers to the execution of an unlawfully taken or unlawfully detained child. It's a procedure which, because of its sensitivity, is in the jurisdiction of the court. Of course, the court is competent to include in this process the guardianship body, i.e. the guardian’s body’s psychologist, school, psychological counselling, or other specialised institution. Why is this execution in court proceedings, when it comes to handing over a child very important? Because in this law, the focus of interest and the focus of protection of interest is just a minor child. All actions taken by the court and the psychologist of the custody authorities must be taken only to protect the child’s best interests. It is precisely the role of guardians of the custody body and how significant it is, because it determines the emotional status of the child, determines the behavior of the child towards the face, where it is illegally detained, as well as the person to whom it should be handed over, but suggests the judge's way, the best way to do it with as little stress as possible, as little difficulty in taking the self-execution process and handing over the underage child. And finally, I want to point out that these enforcement procedures are very important in civil law cases of child abduction when it comes to a child who is from outside the country and illegally detained in the territory of our country and that the enforcement of the same legal provisions applies to the execution and protection of children as victims of domestic violence, as well as the protection of other rights of children, in accordance with the law. In the voting day, the SNS will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43121	Thank you, Mrs. Vukoicic. There is a word from MP Marko Atlagic, and let the MP Branka Jankovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43122	The Honorable President and Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Becic, Mr. Selakovic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zorana Babić, I am speaking to you as you are the only president of the 12 parliamentary groups in this room tonight, and this is not the only time. I am pleased to see Mr. Minister of Justice Selakovic that very often we see you in this high house, the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this is not about your work and dedication, but also about the activities of the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia in general. I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will recognize it well and appreciate it when it comes at that time. However, I cannot believe that today they are referring to unfounded criticism especially in the afternoon to the judicial authorities of the MPs of the former regime who are directly responsible for the situation in the judiciary before you, Mr Selakovic, led by the Justice Ministry, which was the European Commission's assessment at that time the worst in Europe. The judiciary during the former regime's party was in such a state of mind that there was almost no pedantic lawyer who did not see his tragedy as a tragedy of the profession. Even Brussels assessed judicial reform during the former regime's 2008-2012 party, I quote -- as the worst done thing, the final quote "Politika" on July 7th 2012. Dear Minister, some judges then died of injustice and some committed suicide, but something unrecorded in the history of the judiciary happened, the former regime's party chose dead Judge Ljubisa Djuric from the Basic Court in Pozega as judge. And behold, the chairman of the VSS, Mrs. Nata Mesarovic, claimed then that every candidate had been checked, but I just don't understand how she was checking on a dead judge. The European Commission assessed during the former regime's party reform of the judiciary as a quote -- special concern, completed with the book "Court Reform in Serbia 2008. – 2012” Dr Vesna Rakić Vedinelic, 2012, 96 pages. Let me say something about a very important law, which is the Law on Public Registration. This Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Registration has its foothold in the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who submitted to the National Assembly of Serbia in the elections of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 27 April 2014 in this House of Higher Education, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. Dear People's MPs, not to forget the knowledge of all those concerned, the exposés of the RS Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic is the most comprehensive, most accurate, most concrete, biggest, 52 densely typed pages and the best of all 72 previous exposés of the Serbian government since the time of the first Serbian Prime Minister Prote Mateja Nenadovic to date. Dear People's MPs, on the 45th exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, I quote – the functioning of a public notary profession increases both legal security and efficiency in the conduct of legal affairs. The court should disbursement all accompanying cases so that its priority becomes a trial within a reasonable period of time for citizens to come to a judicial decision, a final quote. As it has been written and accomplished, the law has been in force for a year now. Today, gentlemen, the MPs are discussing a very important service, I would be told by professors to students, notary or public notary who is very important for the legal order of state and nation. How important the Notary Service is is to say that it is still in Roman law and has a very long tradition and a significant role in the legal system of many European countries and not only of them, but also of the whole world. Lately, a large number of transition states have revived this institute and so has our country. The very term “notar” is derived from the Latin word “notarius” meaning scribe. The word "notarius" was first used by Cinceron Secretary Marko Tullius Tyro, otherwise a fighter of Tyrolean notes, abbreviations in Latin paragraphy. This is for the sake of knowledge and conduct to see the tradition of this action. Since ancient times, notaries have been stamping and signing documents by giving them legal power and strengthening the credibility of the document. In the past, notaries were civil servants, and notaries were the issue of state administration, as the state established the service of notaries as authorities of the administration. Yet the real boom of the notary was experienced in the Middle Ages when legal faith was given on notary documents, which allowed the reception of this service across the country and Europe. For the sake of knowledge and behaviour, notaries have played a very important role in the legal system of the Southern Slavic region characterised by legal particularism, especially in strengthening legal certainty and facilitating legal traffic, which they do today. Modern times are characterized by various forms of notariats. Today, according to the scope of the authorisation, there are three main forms of notary institutions: the Latin type of notariat, the state type and the Anglo-Saxon type. The function of the notaries, as regards the achievement of the basic task and the objectives of the service, is best achieved by the Latin type of notariats, which we also kind of inherit. In it, the notary has the highest level of authority. In the case of a state-owned notariat, work is only a process of verification and confirmation, and in the case of an Anglo-Saxon type notariat, it is not a legal profession. As for our country, in our premises, therefore in Serbian, the notary appears in the 11th century. It is not true that opposition MPs were in 1930, but even in the 11th century. In Serbia's Dubrovnik, the notary appears in the 12th century, and the Serbian notary office was formed in the 13th century in Dubrovnik, which published documents in the Cyrillic letter in an ancient Slovenian, or Serbian language. Let me only mention one sentence, one charter of the 1254th year, written in a Cyrillic letter, by which Dubrovnik rule, the prince of Dubrovnik and the entire Dubrovnik community swear to peace and friendship with Serbian King Stefan Urosh First. Also mentioned in Kotor in the 15th century, the Serbian Notary Office. It's a good thing the notary service came to life thanks to you, Mr. Minister, even though it was meant to be alive during the party of the former regime, and it wasn't. It's great, Mr. Minister, that a number of lawyers passed a notary exam, although they needed it during the party of the former regime, and they didn't. It's good, Mr. Minister, that the Public Note Chamber was formed during your term of office and revived, although it was necessary during the party of the former regime, which it wasn't. What is very important is that the Notary Service will increase the efficiency of the judiciary and bring legal certainty to a higher level for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. However, following the year-long application of the Law on Public Book Action, it was noted that some provisions of the law from the organisational and technical aspect were to be redefined, as you pointed out in the opening work, but also to monitor the performance of the notary's work and disciplinary responsibility, and otherwise to improve the overall quality of the Notary Service. So certain inaccuracies, indiscretions, which is very good and checks the law in practice. That's why tonight, today and tomorrow, we're making a proposal for this bill. I have several MPs from the opposition benches to be denied tonight, especially that MP, a colleague by profession, a professor who presents himself as a Turnover Movement, or what the Croats would say is "a craftsman's association". My smallness has looked at what it means in Serbian "association" in the Serbian-Croatian language dictionary since 1976, page seven, and that means cooperative. But since he's not here tonight, it's incorrect to talk about it, but I know where he is. He went to Obrovac, in the street of the Kurjaković 7 brothers to move the Association of History and Reconciliation of Serbs and Croats from the apartment of Milica Badže, so that our militia professor would move into her apartment after 20 years. And finally, I'm denying the first speaker from the former regime's party that the government hasn't done its thing. Mr. Vice President, I ask you, through you, and I like to get answers to these next eight thesis. Is it true, gentlemen of the opposition benches, since most of you are gone, but if you are watching TV broadcasts, that the Republic of Serbia opened the first chapters with the European Union just yesterday? Secondly, is it true that in 2015 the Republic of Serbia entered a positive growth trend, or did it not? Third, is it true that the deficit has fallen to 3 or how you take 4% one and the other? Fourthly, is it true that this government, headed by President Vukic, has stopped the alleged genocide in Srebrenica organised by the United Nations? Fifthly, is it true or is it not true that the Republic of Serbia and the Government led the president did not impose sanctions on Russia, that it had stopped the imposition of sanctions? Sixth, is it true that under this government the Republic of Serbia chaired the OSCE and showed the world the real face of the Republic of Serbia? Seven, is it true or not, gentlemen of the opposition benches and your academic congratulations, that on the World Bank's 2016 business list, Serbia took 59th place, instead of 199, how many of them are in the world, which is even 32 positions compared to last year's list? I'm undermining, it's the biggest jump in the last nine years on the World List. Finally, eight, we could do it by tomorrow, but only eight, is it true or not, gentlemen of the opposition benches that you criticised today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that in terms of the migrant crisis, the Republic of Serbia has shown its best face, for which all relevant factors, both domestic and foreign, have given it recognition? In the end, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote for this set of laws on Voting Day. I call specifically on you from weak opposition benches to give your vote for these laws, because so little, even so, you will contribute to the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, our country for which it is so warmly advocated, and not only for the purposes of implementing the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the state of Tomislav Nikolic, the majority of MPs in this high house and the largest number of citizens, almost plebiscitarian, the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43123	I thank you, Professor Atlagic. Unfortunately, you will have to repeat these questions again another time, because with us is only the respected doctor Pavicevic and Mr. Petrovic. The word has a folk MP, Branka Jankovic, and let the MP Zivan Djurisic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43124	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, respected citizens, we today, as you have heard, have a set of laws in the area of the judiciary, so I, in my presentation, will briefly look back and comment on them. The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Judges is not necessarily necessary at this point in Serbia's judicial system. This law in a way practically complies with the provisions of the Law on the Judicial Academy, whose provisions of Articles 40, 8, 9 and 11 ceased to apply after the Constitutional Court's decision of 6 February 2014. Namely, the Constitutional Court has found that the law cannot oblige the High Council of the Judiciary to necessarily propose to the National Assembly for the first election for the judicial office of the candidate who completed their initial training at the Judiciary Academy. However, the Constitutional Court also says -- rules can be laid down by law on the basis of which the VSS would particularly value this completed initial training at the Judicial Academy. For these reasons, we today have before us a draft law supplementing the Law on Judges which prescribes these specific rules for determining the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge who is first elected to perform judicial functions in the criminal and basic court. In addition to Article 45a of the Law proposal, it is said - that the expertise of a candidate for a judge who is first elected to a judicial office in a primary or criminal court is being checked out by that professionality and competence in the examination organised by the High Council of the Judiciary, by the fact that candidates who have completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy are free to pass this special exam, and given that the examination is assessed, the assessment from the final examination of the initial training at the Judicial Academy is equal to the assessment of this particular exam. In this way, the opinions, the provisions of the Law on the Judicial Academy and the current Law on Judges have been harmonised, and the decision of the Constitutional Court of 12 June 2014 as well as of 6 February 2014. In this regard, candidates for the judge who are first elected to the judicial office are not favored depending on whether or not they have completed initial training at the Judicial Academy, i.e. the criteria of expertise and training for all candidates will be determined in the same way by the examination in the course of the exam, whether before the High Council of the Judiciary or the final exam before the Judicial Academy. The same story is also the same with the proposed Law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law where a supplement was proposed in the section of determining the expertise of candidates for the deputy public prosecutor who was first elected to office in the General Public Prosecutor's Office. Since the provision of Article 75 is Article 2. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, by decision of the Constitutional Court, ceased to apply on 12 June 2014, which prescribed the obligation of the State Council of Prosecutors to be binding when proposing candidates for the selection of the primary public prosecutor who completed his initial training at the Judicial Academy. This Constitutional Court decision of 6 February 2014 referred to the State Council of Prosecutors that the law could lay down these specific rules on the basis of which this body would particularly value this completed initial training at the Judicial Academy in the process of proposing first-time deputy prosecutors. It was the same thing that was done precisely by this proposal for a law supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records has proved important for redefining the organisational and technical aspect of the public record service, monitoring the performance of this activity, disciplinary responsibility and in general to improve the quality of the work of holders of this new judicial profession. The Law on Public Records in its application showed certain shortcomings and irregularities, as well as legal gaps, so it was necessary to build them up, remove these contradictions, fill in the gaps all in order to achieve the rights of the parties more quickly and efficiently. We also see that there are provisions in the current law that are not brought to life in practice, so the question of their purpose is raised, because it does not seem to apply at all in the future. The Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018 requires further improvement of the regulatory framework for a sustainable public notary system. By reading this proposed law, we can see that the current Public Note Act is amended and complemented by the current Public Note Act relating to the organisation of public records, to the subjects of public note-keeping functions, to public notation books and files, to the provisions on the chamber and its bodies, to the rewards for work and cost-paying, to the provisions governing the organisation of public examinations, to the provisions governing the place of the case in deposit, to the provisions governing the preservation and issue of such items, and to the like. Practically these changes and additions have been defined in a clear and precise manner, question and language and letters, especially one that is in official use in the field of the specific location of the unit where the public note office is located. Furthermore, the seal content and contents of the public notebook, the introduction of a number of seals, namely three types of seals, were then determined whether and under what conditions a public notary function could be performed outside the public record office. It is also important, of course, that entities that are not worthy of public confidence are more precisely identified, but it is also important to establish a directory of public notebooks and a question of public notebooks. The provisions on the distance of public notebooks are also new, i.e. the setting of conditions under which the minister of justice can reach a solution to the temporary distance of the public notary. The conditions are clearly specified when the public notary must refuse to perform the service and the new provisions are also on public notary associates and the conditions of their work in the public record office. The practice has shown that it is necessary to regulate both the conditions and the way in which the public note is corrected after its publication. Then, in particular, provisions on the control of the hopes of the work of public notebooks are important, both by the Ministry of Justice and by the Chamber. The provisions of the disciplinary responsibility of public notebooks have also been specified. So, before us, we have a clear, concise bill that contains amendments and additions to the applicable Law on Public Records, which is the result of monitoring the application of the applicable law and its alignment with the requirements and practical application. Perhaps I am inclined to believe that the government and the resolution ministry should have passed and proposed a brand-new Law on Public Registration, because this generally did not show up well in practical application, which we have heard about today in the presentations of all MPs, is very liberal and almost does not foresee control over the work of public notebooks. However, I am quite certain that this government, as a responsible government, will follow the application of these proposed amendments and additions to the applicable law and will react to some new ones if it is deemed necessary. The Action Plan for chapter 23 in the area of justice provides for a whole series of activities to be implemented as a reform of the judiciary so that the state of Serbia as a candidate shows that it has built a judiciary that is independent, impartial, efficient, professional and responsible. Such a judiciary is the basis of every democratic society that provides adequate application of legislation and protection of citizens' rights. On 1 July 2013, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a national strategy for judicial reform for the period 2013 to 2018 defining priorities, strategic objectives and guidelines for reform measures. On 31 August 2013, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of this national justice reform strategy, which provides for specific measures and activities to realise strategic objectives. The deadlines, competent entities and funding sources have been defined. It is this Action Plan that sets out the measures for the implementation of the recommendations set out in 114 which reads – sufficient administrative capacity should be provided as well as the budgetary powers of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors over their own budget. Furthermore, their work must be transparent and subject to institutional responsibility. In this regard today, we have before us proposals on amendments and amendments to the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors which are prescribed that the sessions of these bodies be public, that decisions be reasoned and that decisions and reports on the work of these bodies are published on their websites. Recommendation 114 provides for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary and on the State Council of Prosecutors, which would introduce, within the limits of the provisions of the current Constitution and in accordance with the opinion of the Venice Commission, the principle of the highest transparency of the work of these bodies, to improve the procedure for the election of members of these bodies, and in light of the strengthening of judicial independence and within the limits, I told the current Constitution. There is still a lot of work to be done in the coming period, but I personally believe that this government of the Republic of Serbia as a responsible government and in the future will successfully deal with these obligations. In voting day, of course, I will support all the proposed laws of this set.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43125	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zivan Djurisic, and let Mr Vuceta Toskovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43126	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, honourable MPs, just to remind me that the judicial reform began with the adoption of the National Justice Strategy in 2006, the Constitution of November 2006 and a set of judicial laws in December 2008. This is an opportunity and I feel the obligation and need to remind myself that the former regime, i.e. the DS, was then in power to implement the reform of the judiciary in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The reform, at least so declared, should have consistently regulated the rule of law and independence of the judiciary through a consistent division of power into three branches - legislative, executive and judicial power. In several provisions, the constitution predicted that judicial authority is independent of the other two branches of government. The objectives of the reform were judicial independence, a new network of courts, a reduction of the costs of the judiciary, a change of procedural laws in order to be effective. The independence of the judiciary was to be achieved as the Constitution also guaranteed through the independence of the judicial authority, the continuity of judicial office and the protection of the position of the judge and prosecutor's holder. The independence of the judicial authority has not been consistently implemented by the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary and the Law on Judges, which provides for a general re-election and selection of judges in transitional and final terms, which is in direct contrast with the Constitution and the principle of continuity of the judicial function. A lot of this has been said and written by the most innovative legal experts, above all for constitutional law. The basic constitutional principle guaranteed by the independence of the judge, through the principle of continuity of the judge's office, has been violated and any interpretation that was then given, above all, by the party's politicians in power is not in line with this constitutional principle. The executive power opposed the opinion in the case of the public and without the participation of the judiciary made a decision on a general re-election in the choice of judges, by the first convened by the High Council of the judiciary, which was not elected by the judiciary but by the Assembly. The first election called on the High Council of the Judiciary, followed by a series of irregularities and illegalities. The choice from the professor's ranks was not accepted, as proposed by the competent colleges and the draft was accepted. The High Council for these reasons worked in incomplete composition. The Executive and Legislative Authority gave special privileges to members of the First Council of the Judicial Council, as they were excluded from the general re-election and provided them with mandatory progress after the end of the term of office, these kinds of corrupt actions, led to counter-services to the executive authority, as the choice of judges was made without any criteria and procedures. To the extent of the executive authority, which is no longer questionable and for which there is a lot of evidence. The re-election decision and the election of judges who made the High Council of the judiciary in the first session is not reasoned. The High Council of the Judiciary has persistently refused to explain its decisions made non-transparently, without clearly defined procedure, without standards regarding the assessment of the results of each judge's work, it was taken away from the judges to attend the debate on their applications and could not, you know and what evidence and facts concerning the fulfilment of the conditions for re-election. This re-election did not lay down the procedures and criteria on the basis of which the re-election of judges would be assessed. All these mistakes were made by the domestic professional public as well as by the international professional public, the international community. The objectives declared have not been achieved and in some segments of the reform there have been completely conflicting effects. This conduct of the High Council of the judiciary, primarily by its members, has been carried out by the executive and legislative authorities and the alleged reasons for the indemnity, has led to a violation of honor and reputation for unselected judges, which has led to hundreds of charges for compensation, in addition to material and immaterial damages. Those disputes are being conducted right now. A large number has already been completed and the state of Serbia is paying millions for the damage that someone has done. Mr. Minister, is anyone even going to be responsible for this? The Serbian Progressive Party also noted in the 2012 pre-election campaign the need to continue reforming the judiciary and correcting the mistakes it has made and that it will never allow anything like this to happen again that Serbian citizens have recognized and what the party is doing now. A national strategy for judicial reform for the period 2013-2018 as well as an action plan for the implementation of this reform has been adopted. According to these strategic documents, a series of laws have been adopted in the area of the judiciary and I would not like to list them, as a large number has been considered and brought by the National Assembly in 2014 and this 2015. The analysis of these proposed amendments and the addition of the laws on the agenda today no doubt confirms that the reasons for the adoption of these amendments are the promotion, transparency of the work of the High Council of the judiciary and the obligation to explain the decisions made by the High Council of the judiciary, the determination of the expertise and competence of the candidates for judges who are first elected, the programme and the way the examinations are assessed and the competence of the candidates for the judicial office, and the same applies to the choice of prosecutors. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Note, to repeat what has already been said to contribute to the legal security of citizens and economic operators, the establishment of a public-book system. Following the one-year application of the Public Records Act, certain inaccuracies and contradictions in its provisions and legal gaps that do not leave room for finding any solution in certain situations have been observed. The need for these amendments, this law, must also impose an action plan for the implementation of the national justice reform strategy for the period 2013-2018, under which further improvement of the normative framework is necessary in order to establish an efficient and sustainable public-book system. As regards the draft law on enforcement and security, to remind me that the applicable law on enforcement and security was adopted in 2011 and amended three times, introduced an important paper, other than the judicial perpetrators for enforcement, became competent and enforcers, as persons of public trust and public authority holders appointed and resolved by the minister of justice. In this way, the applicable law on enforcement and security tried to speed up the enforcement and security process by introducing this new judicial profession into the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The process acceleration methodology, however, is controversial. A series of general institutes removed from the law, such as appeal, suspension of the executive procedure, skill, etc. The normative arrangement of some very important institutes has been shortened, so they have become unclear, and such a method of speeding up the executive procedure and the security process has become simpler, but also problematic because of the speed, sacrifice of a clear process and cause uncertainty. For these reasons, the preparation and adoption of a new law in which all segments governing the applicable law, procedural, material-legal, as well as part of the status of perpetrators have been constructed in detail. For these reasons, I fully support the basic ideas contained in the proposal for this law on enforcement and security. I fully agree with the reasoning of these laws given by the Government and which Mr. Minister has explained today, and I would not repeat them. These amendments and additions to all these judicial laws, including amendments and additions to the Law on the Judicial Academy, constitute one legal framework that will not allow the repeat of what the former regime has done so-called. judicial reform 2009-2010 and 2011 And finally, just to remind the people's MPs and all citizens of Serbia that Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, in his exposé, during the government's election, cited, among other things, that "the end of judicial reform, is one of the essential pillars for normal functioning of the economy, state administration and the creation of a safe environment for foreign investment. The reform aims to speed up judicial proceedings, to reduce the number of pending cases, to balance judicial practice and a predictable judicial system. All of this should result in the return of citizens' trust and economics in the judicial system. In this sense, a legal framework for a new, more efficient legal system will be circled." The end of the quote. In voting day, SNS MPs will vote for all these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43127	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. The People's MP Vuceta Toskovic has the word, and let the People's MP Milan Petrovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43128	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with members of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister has one national and says - I will not do what I want. This applies to the opposition that denies these laws that they passed, at least when it comes to the Law of the Judicial Academy, which I'll say for a moment. So we found these laws, especially this Law of the Judicial Academy. We will swing it with changes and additions to that law we will put that law on its feet and it will be functional. For the absurd to be larger, there are some MPs who would remove this law and the second point in the law that says, quote - The aim of the establishment of the Academy is to contribute to the professional, independent, impartial and effective renewal of the judicial and prosecutorial functions and the professional performance of the affairs of judicial and prosecutorial staff. So they would all cancel it out, and here they wrote it. I'm going to be based on Article 43(2), which says it's changing, so I'm talking about changes and additions. I quote this view - Permanent training is mandatory when it is confirmed by the law or by the decision of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors in the event of a change of specialisation, an important change in regulations, the introduction of new techniques of work and the removal of shortcomings in the work of judges and deputy public prosecutors seen in the evaluation of their work. These amendments and additions to the law of the Judicial Academy regulates its status, activity, governance and funding bodies, as well as initial and permanent training of judges, public prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, training of judicial and prosecutorial assistants and trainees, as well as training of judicial and prosecutorial staff. The training of court prosecutors, interns and assistants, then candidates, and judges and public prosecutors, and ultimately court and prosecutor's staff, should be said that the aim of the academy is to organise and conduct professional training of prosecutors' candidates as well as for training judges and prosecutors. Article 43 refers to continuous training which may be voluntary and compulsory, where, among other things, it is mandatory for judges and prosecutors who are first elected to the post and who have not attended initial training, and Articles 45 and 44 continue to talk about general and special permanent training, and in particular discusses the ongoing training required for judges, prosecutors, who are first elected to the post. It should be made clear that in the context of specific training things are elaborated, mandatory training for prosecutors who are first elected to the post and have not completed initial training. If we want to ensure a professional, independent, impartial, effective renewal of the judicial and prosecutorial functions and a professionally efficient renewal of the affairs of judicial and prosecutorial staff, it is necessary to be more serious and with more knowledge, energy, comparative practices and a broader view of accessing this area and it is fully in order, and thus we get a clear and comprehensive better law. I'm done with this, and now I have to congratulate myself on the opening of the chapter, President Alexander Vukic and his team, and all the people who have worked and contributed to the opening of these chapters on time and congratulations on making budgets for this year, which is very important, nothing less important than these chapters. In voting day, I'll vote as well as SNS -- yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43129	Thank you, Mr. Toskovic. The People's MP Milan Petrovic has the word, and let the MP Boban Birmancevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43130	Today's agenda includes nine amendments and additions to the law on justice, with the intention of making a better legal order in the country. I will single out two draft laws that I consider to have certain shortcomings, which, of course, I will also try to improve with amendments. In the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Records, the concept of a public notary associate is used for the first time. We believe that it is positive to define this status, however, it should also be more precise to determine a circle of persons who will perform the tasks of a public notary associate. It is also unnecessary to narrow down a circle of persons who can initiate disciplinary proceedings against public notaries, especially if we consider that disciplinary responsibility against the basic holders of judicial functions such as judges, prosecutors, lawyers, can be tolerated by almost all persons who come in contact with the same. We are also of the opinion that President Komor should not be extended, because we think that the laws should be applied equally and that no one should be the exception. In the draft law on enforcement and security, we believe that a new member should be added to indicate that the execution will be carried out by both the court or the public enforcer. This is very important because the legislator introduces the current proposal by introducing a public enforcer in the jurisdiction to execute almost all executives. This way, the court leaves only executions in the area of joint sale of things, execution of inactions, sufferings, return of employees to work, which represents a trivial number of cases in executive proceedings. We believe that this bill must also leave the possibility to the executive trustee as the applicant of the proposal for execution to choose and indicate for himself who will carry out the execution, the court or the executioner. At this point, it is unnecessary to allow public enforcement authorities, the jurisdiction of almost all possible execution cases. In Article 13 of this Bill, we believe that the principle of equality of parties in the executive procedure is violated. The Executive Officer must protect his rights in the executive procedure if he considers that he is injured by illegal conduct, for example by the perpetrators. Therefore, we believe that the request for an exemption from a court enforcer may be allowed under the same conditions that apply to all judges. Public service fees in the current amount are too high for citizens. This stance imposes the obligation to pay public service fees, not taking into account the difficult economic situation in our country and the position of the Serbian People's Party is to prevent the forced payment of public service fees. We believe it is very important that the perpetrators, when carrying out the execution, must take care of the ratio between the amount of the executive debtor's commitment from the assets and the value of the execution items. There are often examples that perpetrators abuse this principle and in some ways block the assets of an executive debtor that is significantly greater than the property value of his debts. We hope that you will understand the essence of the amendments submitted and adopt them, because the Serbian People's Party's goal is to help make better laws for citizens and I also hope that you will analyse the amendments you submit before the economic cocussus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43131	I thank you, Mr. Petrich. Since Mr. Sutanovac is not in the O.R., the word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic, and may the MP Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic be prepared. Here you go, Dr. Birmanchevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43132	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens, an extremely important set of laws that only continues to practice the introduction of all that is needed in this country to serve as a rule of law in Serbia. Strengthening the rule of law, strengthening courts, strengthening everything that can help citizens, an individual must be neglected. Only strong institutions can carry out what is necessary, and it is necessary to protect both citizens and all those involved in any legal affairs, which, unfortunately, we want to or not, we have daily in everyday life. What I'd like to say is that I wouldn't repeat myself, it's just that we're going over the legal system, that's how the legal system is in just a few years, from one there in 2006. In 2007, he was able to come to a situation where it was almost impossible to expect these results that we managed to achieve in just a few years and, above all, thanks to this government and, of course, to this minister who, I will remind those who do not know, on July 27, 2012, at the head of the Justice Ministry, Mr Selakovic came and thanks him, we managed to turn something that seemed like a miracle into reality at that moment. We finally have a legal state where people when they need to know who to turn to, where to go and where to try to find that legal remedy that everyone needs. What we must mention, all those who say -- it is not important, they are wrong, it is also important to remind the citizens, of course, and the MPs who do not remember it, that in 2007, then Justice Minister Dusan Petrovic said in Sapac: "The incredible phenomenon with which we are forced to live all these years, such as the vast number of outdated cases, very mild criminal policies, will become the past, not only of our judiciary, but of our society," Petrovic said in Sapac on 10 October 2007, and as a result of all this, the dissipation of justice continued in 2008 with the arrival of Snezana Malovic in power. In 2008 a set of judicial laws was passed in December, introducing a new network of courts and prosecutors and proposing a choice of judges and prosecutors. In April 2009, the first meeting of VSS and DVT was established. As early as July, a contest for the election of judges and prosecutors, which was reported by 5400 candidates, appeared. In December 2009, 1.532 old judges and 875 new judges were elected. In January 2010, just five years ago, 837 judges and 220 prosecutors and deputies were out of work. Of course, all these judges and prosecutors were returned by the Constitutional Court's decision, because everything that was done in those four years when it was a "reform" of the judiciary was done past the Constitution and beyond the law. The right of man to live within the rule of law has been denied and indeed major, major problems in the ministry awaited by Minister Selakovic. In a very short time, in three years' time, they received their epilogue in these laws and in all the other laws that we have adopted in the meantime, which Chapter 23, which we are likely to hope, in accordance with the trends shown on 14 December 2015, to remember this date well, and indeed given that governments have been trying backwards to reach that date, this government, led by Alexander Vukic and the ministers sitting in that government, managed to open and start negotiations of two chapters. I don't think it's enough to just stick to those two chapters, but we need to do whatever it takes to, say, Chapter 23 of the Justice Department, ready to welcome us and, as soon as possible, go through all the necessary accreditations that Serbia needs to become a full member of the EU as soon as possible. The law on enforcement and security is one of the key laws, because it is through this law that everything that is made and which is intended to be implemented, that is, the decisions that the courts have made, that is, through this law must be implemented. What is very important is that, through all these laws so far, through the work of the Ministry, we have come into the situation that it no longer matters which judge you, but a member who is being tried, and whether at the trial of Petar Petrovic or Milos Milosevic, it is not the name of the man who is being tried but the work he did, or the size of the work. We no longer need to think about whether justice is available. I'm sure justice can be done. What was also to be noted in the opening part, no one said that we had inherited the Ministry of Justice which also had ongoing litigation, the longest case in Serbia for 33 years, the longest criminal procedure for 16 years, the working sport for eight years, the longest enforcement procedure lasted 17 years, the administrative dispute for the exercise of one disability pension right lasted 12 years. It is precisely the law that we passed at one of the previous sessions on a reasonable period of time that prevents all these phenomena that we inherited and which can simply be the past, given how and how this ministry works. Of course, all those accusations addressed to the ministry and to the government when it comes to writing the law are unfounded. This government doesn't prescribe laws. This government is writing laws in line with the real situation, and the decision to return a court tax, or court tax, is the best way to show it. The court tax mark returns the payment of obligations for all those and all those who have managed in different ways so far not to pay obligations, that is, everything that 40% of citizens have paid so far, by introducing a court tax mark will be prevented. Be assured that this ministry is preparing in 2016 and you are laws that will also introduce electronic payments, pay by mobile phone for those who are able to do so, but just by introducing a court tax mark we want to protect those people who pay their obligations to the court, according to justice and to their citizens neatly. I'll remind you, at this point, the charge we also inherited is only 40%. What I want to say for the end is that responsibility for business, that is, for the functioning of the Ministry of Justice and the justice system at this point is primarily at the Ministry of Justice and the Government. The Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to which we all belong, is of course one corrective factor and we, our amendments and our proposals, can influence decision-making. The responsibility for Serbia's judiciary is behind Minister Selakovic and this government right now. The responsibility for all that was done by 2012 stands clearly on the ministers who led the judiciary before the SNS and before this established government since 2102. All those who do not vote in favour of these and similar laws guaranteeing Serbia justice and justice and who manage to bring justice and justice closer, i.e. to make a minimal difference and in the future it will be smaller and smaller, must simply think about that this is the only right path towards the EU, i.e. towards justice that is necessary for all citizens, in order to live in the conditions of decent people. I am sure that it will not repeat the mistakes of the past, that citizens will recognize and know that they appreciate everything that has been done, and it has been done precisely in the interests of the citizens, and all those who do not act in accordance with the Ministry of Justice, or with laws that are clear and transparent at the moment, will surely have problems not only with the court and the judges, but also with all those who care about justice. I call on all those who want good for this Serbia, they want good citizens, they want to vote for this set of laws, because it is a guarantee that we have a legal state that will know that it reacts at the right time in the right way and in a way that protects its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43133	I thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. The People's Messenger, Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Marijan Risticevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43134	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the good news is that the first two negotiating chapters have been opened in Serbia's accession process to the European Union, and that means, for me, that, in part, even if this government of the Republic of Serbia implements the policy of the New Party, respected gentlemen, because we here say clearly to Europe and we here say to start Serbia. So, Mr. Selakovic, run and wake up European Serbia. The other thing, it's good, ladies and gentlemen, when there's a foundation in the preparation of new draft laws. I also appreciate the fundamentality in the preparation of the reasoning I also saw in the opening statement of Minister Selaković, which lasted 80 minutes this morning, almost half of Mr. Vukic's exposés, but I think it reveals one respect for the National Assembly, this home where we sit, and I appreciate it very much. What in my court, Your Honor, is not well? I'll point out a few such points, and here's Mr. Babic, who joined us here in the debate. It is not good, gentlemen, that the laws are often changed, and today we are discussing the third amendment to the Law on Public Registration in 13 months. You, Minister Selakovic, said this morning – "it's kind of natural", I'm reading it from a stenogram now, "that in transition times laws change more frequently than usual". It's a quote. As you can see, Minister Selakovic, when we from opposition use other people's words, sentences and ideas, we put them under the quotes, not as some of your colleagues, Minister Selakovic, who use other people's words, sentences, paragraphs, and then do not put the signs of the quote. Look, Mr. Selakovic, I think that one of the fundamental elements of the rule of law, my opinion is that you know it better than I do, and that the laws don't change often, and three changes in 13 months, I think, is a common change of law. Often changes violate the rule of law. Instead of frequent, wrong, under-thinking moves, it is better to work more thoroughly, Mr. Selakovic, as you did this morning, when you prepared thoroughly to explain these nine documents that we are discussing today. Another thing that I find not good, you are in the opening statement, Minister Selakovic, I will quote again and, of course, put your words and sentences under quotes. You said the following in the dialogue with Mrs Martinovic – "it is true that for years in each report, it has been stated that our Constitution contains provisions that allow political influence on the election of judicial officials and until this changes, so until the constitution is amended, it will be so." Then, Minister Selakovic, I ask you, what are you waiting for? You, Minister Selakovic, are three and a half years minister of justice, three and a half years. Why is there no initiative and implementation of constitutional audit in our country? Why hasn't that been run in three and a half years? We had a discussion here, for example, about changing the political system. There was no serious proposal from your political party, not even about it, and constitutional review, gentlemen, since you think, Minister Selakovic, that it is important, that we also need it because we are getting objections, based on the fact that it is not there, then I wonder – how does one serious government in a year and eight months, and if it counts before it, which was almost in the same composition, in three and a half years has not initiated a constitutional audit? Mr Selakovic, the New Party offers you a way to initiate and implement a constitutional audit. We place it in two words - the physical constitution and to open one debate, even in our National Assembly about it, so let's see if there are any better proposals, better ideas, so that then, Minister Selakovic, we don't hold on to your findings - until the constitution changes, we'll get criticisms of this kind, so let's stop these criticisms, gentlemen. How do we stop them? Initiating constitutional audit. Mr. Selakovic, do you agree? Third, we have submitted ten amendments to these proposals that you came to the National Assembly today. The largest number of our amendments adds some unwarranted points, commas and letters, Mr Selakovic, and all on behalf of the supreme principle of rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43135	Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43136	I can continue for another two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43137	You know very well you can't, Mr. Pavicevic. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43138	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, highly esteemed by Dr Vladimir Pavicevic, I cannot help but notice that he is, although physically far away, but politically closer to the Serbian Progressive Party. Something tells me that some elections are getting closer, and he is more and more aware that the policy of the Serbian Progressive Party, which I am honored to belong to and who has proposed me to be a responsible state office, is a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, a policy that brings results, because it is the policy of the Serbian Progressive Party, as the backbones of this government, along with its coalition partners, and under the Presidency of Aleksandr Vukic, that led to the opening of the first negotiating chapters in accession negotiations for membership in the European Union. One thing we're going to do is, among other things, it's not just in one thing, because you're getting closer, like I said, and that's good, but we're going to agree on some things. You are absolutely right that it is not good that the law is often changed and that it is one of the fundamental elements of the rule of law, not a frequent change of law. If you have a frequent change of law, one of the things that can mean it is that the law is bad. I say it openly in front of you. This law, which changes in 13 months, changes because it is incomplete and because it is bad. The main motive of the Ministry of Entry into this amendment of the law, and I am confident here that Mr Pavicevic will fully support me, is what was really initial: the change of the provisions on the supervision of the work of public notebooks. When it comes to the positive legislation of the Republic of Serbia in comparison with all the legislation of the countries of the region, the law that was passed in 2011, if I am not mistaken, in May, according to its provisions, and I have been talking to respected Professor Drago Hiber and said, was passed as a law for a country in which there is one 200 years in the continuity of the public record service. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Faced with work, responsible work, especially in the justice sector, not diminishing the importance of other sectors in the justice ministry, we have begun to carry out disciplinary proceedings where there were reasonable doubts that the perpetrators acted against the law. We've received reports, these reports have been processed before the disciplinary commission, certain penalties have been imposed, and when the perpetrators are concerned, I'll give you a brief review, and he says so. To this day, the disciplinary commission, we are now talking about the perpetrators, and I will return to the notebooks, a total of 23 solutions have been submitted, i.e. 23 solutions to the disciplinary responsibility of the perpetrator. Seven disciplinary proceedings were initiated on a proposal from the ministry of justice, while the other 16 were launched by the Chamber of Conductors. The chamber has launched procedures mainly due to the failure to submit work reports and non-payment of the Chamber membership fee, and a disciplinary procedure has been suspended due to obsolescence. The decisions that have been made are as follows, so please escort this, I know you're a man who follows the details of this information. A disciplinary measure of the permanent ban on the performance of the perpetrators has been imposed, and afterwards the minister of justice has made a decision on the resolution of the perpetrators. So, a person, let me remind you, if you look at the provisions of a law that was once released as an enforcer, is not worthy of the profession of the perpetrator, the public notary, the judge, the deputy public prosecutor, or even a lawyer. That is, therefore, an extremely difficult disciplinary measure. One measure of ban on the performance of three months has been adopted. One public note of 15 measures of warning and four disciplinary measures in terms of fines, two fines of 500,000 dinars, one of 100,000 dinars, one of 50,000 dinars. When we started, therefore, safely, responsibly and legally acting similarly in the case of public notebooks, it did not take a lot of time, which is a matter of minutes, not hours or days, to reach the conclusion that the Ministry of Justice fully binds the existing provisions of the Law on Public Libraries when it comes to supervision of work, especially the technical aspect of the work of public notebooks. When you compare this, let's say, with the provisions of the Law on Registration in Croatia, in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, you come to Macedonia very quickly to the conclusion that the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice in this area in Serbia is at least almost non-existent. In terms of a little over a year ago, when we restored the functioning of the public record service, and the historical memory of the previous one, the existing one almost faded, except in the textbooks that can be found, but in the legal mentality, habits, behavior of our citizen, it does not exist. In the early years of the development of this service in Serbia, you need to have a stronger and greater role of the ministry. Even these proposed provisions will be less than, for example, the role of the justice ministry in Montenegro when it comes to supervision. I'm not saying this without any thought, really, because I know the provisions of that law, there's a good law, and pretty good colleagues from Montenegro founded this profession in Montenegro. So, are you right when you say that the rule of law can be based on a frequent change of law? Yes, it is. Are you right and would you be right if you said you didn't, but I suppose we also agree that we need a whole new law on public records? I think you're right about that. The question arises why we don't have a new law, but we have these changes and additions. The reason is that we still don't even have in the field of all the basic courts of the public notebook. So, this waist is only in turn. If you're going to change something right away, you can do a lot more damage than you can if you go into gradual changes and supplements. Basically, three important things that are being introduced by these amendments and the additions of the Charter Act. For me, perhaps the most important thing is this amendment and the supplement on supervision, which strengthens the role of the ministry. You know what that old saying, "the door, the crow's eyes don't come out," says the Note Community in Serbia, and even the community of judges that it has about 2,600 is small, people know each other. Each other to process, possibly, very difficult and very rare. So here it is necessary, until one day the chamber of notebooks strengthens it will be, in all likelihood, only within a few decades if things happen normally. As you today have a Bar Association that should be truly independent and independent, but the tradition of Serbia's attorneyship in the area of Serbia at today's borders is longer than two centuries. In central Serbia 16, 17 decades. It's a young book here, it needs to be breathed in, and it needs to be carefully looked after for what every notebook does. There is a key role of the Ministry of Justice and the role of courts, chambers of course, but if we are surprised by the chamber with a positive action, that is good, but we should not hope or rely on it. So, one part of the provision concerns supervision, when I sum up everything that's important, the other part of me is important, especially because of young colleagues, the introduction of a public notary associate, as kind of officials in the public record office. The Third Corps of Measures concerns technical changes and additions that were truly unpredictable. If we hadn't had any problems since the beginning of the introduction of the book in Serbia, these kinds of changes and additions would certainly be necessary. Now I'm going back to why I mentioned disciplinary proceedings against the perpetrators and disciplinary proceedings when it comes to notebooks. So I just read the results or the report on the work of the disciplinary commission when it comes to perpetrators. When it comes to public records, the Justice Ministry submitted two proposals for the launch of a disciplinary procedure against a public register, one procedure ended in October by giving a fine, and two other disciplinary proceedings are under way before the Disciplinary Commission of the Public Note Chamber, one submitted by other entities, not by the Ministry of Justice. The ministry also filed a misapplication against a notebook where the procedure ended with a fine of 100,000 dinars. I am convinced that these results will be significantly more relevant when the Ministry is assigned the powers it really needs to have, because we have shown on the subject of the perpetrators that this job within the Ministry is really strictly professional. Every anomaly of illegality or irregularity in the work of a new profession is much easier, more effective and more effective to sanction at the very beginning, so that this does not happen again. I have absolutely no personal relationship here, whichever is the institution or member of the judicial profession, if it is within the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, not by the grandmother, not by the uncles, to all alike. If it's from 139 current notebooks, 30 of them hopefully not, it'll show work control, all 30 should be processed. These are the things that should be done at the very beginning, and we will not stand down from that. When it comes to the amendments to the Constitution, you are a learned man, you teach at a prominent higher education institution and you know very well that when we deprive ourselves of that daily political speech that has been characteristic of us as politicians, whenever Serbia hastily brought a new Constitution or changed the existing one, it was not good. I will also quote the Prime Minister from his lecture at the University of Belgrade Law School, at the beginning of October of this year when he said, I will paraphrasise – any change in the Constitution or the adoption of a completely new constitution in Serbia must be accompanied by the widest possible political consensus. I don't believe at this point that consensus exists when you move into our SNS I know it will exist to a greater extent, but joke aside. So I think it's something that started, the foundation of everything, the widest possible political consensus. To talk about those things where we are politically different, but to talk and to form such solutions that will not lead us into a situation that over the next five, six, or nine years we are thinking about changing this Constitution or making someone completely new. So that's something we're missing. I think that's why it takes a much higher degree of culture of political dialogue, and what I do know is that today there is much more than there was two years ago, incomparably more than there was four years ago, which is really proof of the progress of this society and is not without reason we got the first chapters opened. That really points to some crucial, vital changes. These changes aren't as fast as you and I, I believe, would, but they can't be faster if we want them to be really quality. This serious government is serious. You asked one question, I'll quote you – how did one serious government not initiate a change in the Constitution? I'll remind you of this, that we have adopted a National Strategy for Justice Reform. When it was brought into this assembly, people who are some kind of your political allies attacked us for why in the National Strategy for Justice Reform, we cited the necessity to change the Constitution in the area of the organisation, that is, in the part of the organisation of the government, the department of courts, that is, the VSS Public Prosecutor's Office, in those parts concerning the State Council of Prosecutors, why we brought into the strategy the necessity of changing the Constitution. They even called us that the strategy in that part was unconstitutional. No, we presented in a document on the strategic development of a branch of government in Serbia that constitutional changes are necessary. This isn't a thing that lasts since yesterday. You know, when the Constitution was adopted in 2006, we had then as a state the previous opinion of the Venice Commission that pointed to the problem of these provisions, but I think we need cold heads here, very rationally all of us to think very carefully. So, as far as I'm concerned as the official who is at this point the minister of justice, and by the function of the member and the State Council and the VSS, I have absolutely no problem saying that the minister of justice should not be a member of those bodies. But, look, just before I mentioned Montenegro, they had constitutional changes, and these constitutional changes are just about Chapter 23 and Chapter 24. Do you know that in their High Judicial Council, or Council, I don't know exactly what the term is, most don't make up judges? Most of them are lawyers of the laymen, not judges. One of the reasons why this is so, is that by the number of people in little Montenegro if you only had judges, in five or six years you would have three or four families in the judiciary and no one else. So the big question is, and I'm asking you, really seriously now, as responsible people in charge, I want to talk to you. You'll forgive me for making this look like a direct address, I know it's not allowed, but I view your initiative and your speech completely partnerly and friendlyly. Consider whether we too at the High Council should, after the amendments to the Constitution, only sit in judges or in the convincing majority of judges. You know for what reason? You will fully understand me here. Every authority is ruled by, or any sovereignty in modern democracies, springs and stems from citizens. The citizens are the Supreme Carriers of the sovereignty of every state. They transfer that sovereignty to their own in the free democratic elections of the elected national representatives. These people's representatives then, selecting all other holders and public officials, transfer some of the sovereignty to them. If every relationship is deleted, follow me well, every relationship you have in the free elections of elected national representatives with the bearers of the judicial authority, I ask you what will be the source of power with the judges, and how will they judge on behalf of the people when such a people have absolutely nothing to do with their appointment? This sounds like a legal-theory question, a legal-theory debate. I'll remind you, in the cradle of modern democracy, in America, in the United States, the largest number of judges is elected in free elections. So, citizens go to the polls and choose judges. It's a confirmation that they're the bearers of public authority functions. Think about it, I'd like to hear your opinion on the subject once. And did we, as a state, commit to the Constitution in this part of the change? That's right. The Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23 provides for these constitutional changes to be implemented by the end of 2017 and is done by the government. So for the first time, we have had the strength to say – we will enter constitutional changes and we will carry them out then and then. The moment Chapter 23 opens, it's our duty. Everything we've written in the Action Plan we have to meet, within the deadlines that we've envisioned and to invest the funds we've foreseen to fund it. As a result, the opening of the chapter is a difficult job for us as public authorities, as it implies much greater and much more difficult activity and much more work for us as representatives of the responsible state authorities for each chapter, but it is a much more certain process for us, because political criteria, which have rarely burdened Serbia in the past 15 years, are down to a minimum. Talks with temporary self-government institutions in Pristina remain. It's something that's a difficult process, but a process in which we've shown that we can even do what's most difficult, even what seemed unimaginable by yesterday, which many would swear never to happen. So, we've shown that we can do that. I think we can do this, and by then we can see in these frameworks that we have now, which are more constrained in the last three years, where we have suppressed the influence of the other two branches of government on, say, the choice of judges or deputy public prosecutors who are first elected here in the National Assembly, we've really narrowed it down to a minimum. For example, counterpart Petar Petrovic talked about this when at 12 judges' seats in one large Belgrade court, 430 people compete and the High Council proposes 12 candidates elected by the Assembly here, and for none of them 12 of those 420-seats you hear the complaint and everyone says this is an excellent choice. Then you realize one thing, and I end up with it, that it's not about who chooses, it's about the criteria on which it chooses. When the criteria are clear, in Austria, the minister of justice chooses judges from the list they deliver to him and in Finland the president of the state. So they're different organs, but you know how to choose. Therefore, be sure not to worry, we will, as we have begun it, end it, deprive the judiciary of every abuse of political influence and create such conditions that we cannot be objected to that we have an unauthorized influence on the judiciary, as it really is, and that is true, less and less, and concrete data testifys about it. But then whoever's in charge of this job, whether it's VSS or any other organ, takes one much, much greater responsibility for everything within that branch of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43139	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Vladimir Pavicevic, a replica. Here you go, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Honored Vice-President Becic, Honored Minister Selakovic, Honored Guests and Guests of the Ministry, I think it is good that Minister Selakovic comes more often to the National Assembly since the man is prone to dialogue, respected gentlemen and to discuss what the topics are on our agenda. But I must make an additional observation here to announce, here you are, Minister Selakovic. When, therefore, a government member in the National Assembly starts defending a great principle of rule of law from the government of which he is a member, then it is time for Minister Selakovic to consider turning into opposition ranks. I am here Minister Selakovic, witness not only the heavy blow of the government, the executive branch of the rule of law, but the difficult blow of the forward majority on parliamentaryism. Here, Minister Selakovic, Thursday, when it is considered necessary is announced on Wednesday. There is a word given to the MPs for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and when they argue that they want to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Dear gentlemen, this is not just about the blow, I think of Progressive Minister Selakovic, the rule of law, parliamentaryism, but often and common common sense and think about it then, whose governments are you a member of? So, is it time for you to go to some other lines, plus, since Minister Selakovic said on several occasions that we agree on some things, for example. Some comments on these draft laws are my expectation at the very least to accept at least nine of the ten amendments that we have submitted to these draft laws. That would mean true, clear consent to Minister Selakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43141	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43142	Thank you. I am a proud, honourable Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when a powerful parliamentary group in an informal sense that also belongs to Dr. Pavicevic on a set of laws numbering nearly 700 members proposes ten amendments. This is a true confirmation of the quality of what we, as representatives of the authorised promoter, have come here to represent. Also, I'm proud when we have one of the key system, procedural laws on enforcement and security that you didn't talk about in your opening statement one word at a time. The law is not only worthy of attention but is essential to the functioning of our judicial system. Let me tell you right now, this isn't about any blow, it's probably about hitting someone's consciousness to realize that the government of Alexander Vukic has managed to open the first negotiating chapters in EU accession. If you do not understand whose member I am, I am a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia whose President Aleksandar Vukic, I am proud of it, because it is the first government to say what he says and accomplishes, it does. If your party, even at a time when its officials were at the head of the state and at the head of some other parties, has failed to change what we have done in these continuum for a little more than a year and a half, then it is proof that this is your policy, or that this is your government, or that this is your party. Of course, we can convince ourselves until the day after tomorrow, we won't be convinced, but the fact itself, and some of your amendments will probably be accepted, I suppose, is Professor. Rakić Vednelic really read our bill well and the fact that you did not have serious objections to the law on enforcement and security, talks about how hard we tried to do one really serious and good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43143	I thank Minister Selaković. The word has a folk MP, Marijan Risticevic, and let it be prepared as the last speaker, Milija Miletic. Thank you, Mr. Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43144	The gentleman who comes out apparently has no intention of exchanging views in the democratic atmosphere and seeking common solutions. Because of my citizens, I am obliged to warn of the fundamental illiteracy of a professor, a lecturer at the Faculty of Political Sciences. First of all, concerned about the training of those same students, when one docent or docent, is rightly both, twice says "under quotes", and rightly so, sir, even though you went out to say "under quotes". The signs are on the side of the road, Mr. Docent, so says Andric, if you've read it. Also, Doctor, I am obliged to tell you no matter what you have escaped as well as your colleague from the polygraph, I am obliged to tell you, there is no new car from the old parts, no new political organisation, Mr. Vincent and respected citizens, made of used politicians, especially those from the LDP who advocate the separation of Montenegro, the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, who had strange games with both Raška and Vojvodina. Especially since they've been hanging out with the founder of the camp on the naked island. It's a big question, Doctor, when you express your disagreement that I have the right to comment on the law as well as you do. Democracy loves equality, Doctor. Democracy also loves when authorities are checked out by the people. Mr. Docent, you have challenged my right to pass laws and amendments and to comment on them even though I have been repeatedly checked by citizens. Only my colleague Drecun and I of the majority parties were in the elections, so we were at what the old Greek philosophers advocated that it had to be checked for someone to be in the centre, it had to be checked, so I would like their political organisation that they say has a percentage not knowing how much, once it comes out and checks out with the people, and they can't even check it out at the vote. Of 272 voting of various types, acts, laws, etc. They were present at 233. In September, October, both have zero votes. Now democracy is about counting votes, Mr. Docent, but apparently you can't stand counting votes. My fellow citizens aren't dangerous laws for you, we're changing laws, you're still dangerous judges, executioners, lawyers, and the laws aren't. The laws need to be changed, they are often changed, they need to be changed to be better for citizens, for all citizens, not for individuals as they used to be. I'll state the case of person A who went to Timočka for the final hearing where person A was changed by the judge. To whom person A said in the hallway – you have nothing to expect in my courtroom, as if DS had left him a courtroom or a dad. The verdict was that a person and had no right to full protection thus the judge showed that he did not respect the Constitution in which all citizens are equal. Person B was executed on salary even though they didn't hit his last name or last name, even though he made a complaint, and you certainly know it, which was not resolved within five days, was not resolved within five months, and when it was solved in the same judicial unit, on the same basis, half was solved positively, half was solved negatively, almost incredible. Person C in India recently, why we are changing the law on enforcement, because of execution burned in the yard of a lawyer, who at the beginning of the trial was his lawyer, and during the process he moved on to the other side and defeated his predecessor or as it were said, and for a banal fight of 15,000 euros, the execution of houses, there is no appeal, there is nothing, the Bar of Lawyers is silent, there was a self-incineration of a lawyer who was on both sides. It cannot, he says, “sit down on two chairs. ” Some lawyers can go to two chairs in two rooms or in two courtrooms. So we have three examples that need to change the law on execution and some other law. All of us who lived in the 1990s, especially in 2012, know why laws should be amended. Gentlemen of the opposition, the robbery didn't move with a gun and a sock on its head, the robbery was with the boss of the party and the minister of the yacht where that pocket had a list of judges to be judges. Those lists were on the relatives' and party lines. Gentlemen of the party of the former regime, which you have here in full, respected citizens for your sake I speak here, these judges did not judge their relatives, these prosecutors of their party, they did not judge the heads of their own party, that is the condition we inherited. If Al Capone were alive, he'd be a small-time spit fish for some criminals who supported those of the former regime's party. He'd be so small, they wouldn't be on their boards. When judges, judicial units, but also some smaller courts become the property of law offices, that's what happened, I think certain cases are still going on, and then that's the problem. Then the verdicts are ordered as drinks and burgers. Then the court becomes an executive book and the seal of a law firm. We must do so, regardless of what is allegedly 2008, 2009, or what in 2010, a reformed deformed judiciary, which was removed on the party's birth certificate from the pocket and thus a judicial authority. We have to stop it. The poor, fired, poorly paid except for the right to life, freedom and rights, these are human rights which in this country seem to be dedicated only to minorities, and since the poor are underpaid most, they do not seem to have the right to life, freedom, security and justice. They have the right to establish the truth in court, not the tariff, the right to establish justice in court, not the mere statisticians, in the farce, because of some ordered and charged judgment. As they say in advance of their obligations. The law isn't the law, if it's for certain laws, and for other shelters. We must, regardless of what is supposed to be independence, but only by us, try to punish those whose law becomes a refuge, those who are rich, those who have made themselves rich in millions, those millionaires who have avoided justice. We, regardless of the pressures of the fourth Serbia, fifth Serbia, must endure and we must fight for it. When injustice becomes law, it says on one stone - resistance becomes obligation. This country has an obligation to resist. Resistance to the next species. The resistance is a point that the state must put on bad justice, not injustice, on crime, otherwise the poor judiciary will injustice, crime will put an end to the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43145	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic, as the last reported debater. Here you go, Mr. Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43146	Honored chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens. I am Milija Miletic and come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is the municipality of Svrljig located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis and I will talk about the draft law on enforcement and security. As we heard from you ministers and from my fellow MPs, all these things that were done in the previous law were so bad that it had to change. As we can see, we have laws on the executive procedure that was adopted in 1978, so after the change in 2000, and again in 2004, the Executive Procedure Act was passed in 2011 by the law on enforcement and security. All of this shows that all these changes in the law were, that is, going towards making it as quickly and as easy as possible and paying off the debt of the debtor. What else can I say, to mention the previous period, the Law on Implementation, where a large number of our citizens felt these perpetrators on their skin, when the perpetrators, together with the directors of public enterprises in that previous period, had some arrangements where for 1,000 or 1,500 dinars the perpetrators were supposed to provide, to inform those citizens, to have debts and they had to settle it. They did so in a unique way and people came only executively to take that money away from them. Normally, it wasn't 1,000 dinars, it was 5,000, 6000, 7,000 dinars and it was a catastrophic situation. As we heard earlier from my colleague Marijan Risticevic, what happened in India, and in India what happened, there were many more cities and municipalities where such things happened. For this reason, you have now put in the draft of this law that, after the executioner has concluded, the party has the right to appeal and, on the basis of that complaint, if the defendant again is not satisfied, the executioner makes a solution and on the basis of the solution, the debtor can file a complaint, which means that we now have two places to complain, i.e. to write the first complaint, and then appeal. I think it's really good, it's necessary and it's consistent to be much better than it's ever been before. One more thing for me as a MP representing the United Peasant Party, but chosen from the SNS list is very important, which is what we now have in this law the possibility of a law delaying execution. It is possible to postpone the execution, and this is very important as regards all of us and our citizens who have certain debts tomorrow, according to the natural persons or the state authority, it is very important precisely because, as I said earlier, I represent here in the United Peasant Party Assembly, chosen from the SNS list and we all know that our agricultural producers have periods when they sow, processed their country, and they had obligations to pay taxes, to pay some debts, the perpetrator came to them at the door, and now, according to this bill of law, Mr Selaković, there is the possibility that the perpetrator could postpone that execution, until the moment when this agricultural producer or peasant, from my end of the Sverliga or some other municipality of another city, could delay and pay that debt to the executioner, the moment he sold his goods, or the moment he sold his body, when he sold his milk, when he sold his owns milk, when he sold his corn or any other fruit. I think this is quite excellent and it is necessary for our agricultural producers, as well as other citizens, not to repeat it again, because we are all witnessing that there are a lot of problems in all parts of our country, just as agriculture is concerned. It's really very difficult and this is a really good sign that our people can postpone their payments and agree with the payer later when they sell their goods. It is also very important to pay attention, because under the previous law it was not a proposal, now we have, for pensioners who have a minimum pension, now it is possible that up to 50% of pensions can be charged to that pensioner, with the fact that in the previous period it was up to 2/3 of pension. I think this is the right decision and I think this is quite, as you say, great. One more thing, for me as a man who comes from a municipality, a beautiful municipality from Svrlig, as a man who represents the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Parliament chosen from the SNS list, is also very important that we have one provision of the law's member, which allows the perpetrator to sell the facility in the process except when the property is sold, or the immobility can be there with it, there must be sales of moving things. What does that mean? It's very important for all of us, but my only objection is now why this law and this provision and this government, and why it wasn't headed by our prime minister 10 years ago, to use this provision and this law not to allow our property, our factories to be alienated in the worst way, to be robbed in the worst way. This member of the law shall be obliged to take the factory together with the entire assets inside and with all mobile machinery through or through the procurement prescribed by the executing entity or by the authority. In short, we all remember the period when that catastrophic privatisation came, when our workers were unpaid for a certain number of months, years, when our workers sued that employer or the director of that factory, and the production and on the continuum of those debts, they got one machine. After a few more lawsuits, he gets another machine, so one machine, the other machine, and in the end, only four walls remain. In the end, they dug up those walls to sell that wire to the electric morticians and sell it. And finally, when the time came, when the workers lost their jobs, when they had no more tools to work, and halls, those factories remained empty and we witnessed, and I also had them in the Srlig municipality, and also in the surrounding municipalities of our southeastern Serbia, a large number of these productions were not returned to the previous state, or to return to function again, to be employed there, to have people finish their jobs there and to provide for themselves and for their domestic existence of life. I think that this law will give us the opportunity for the perpetrators to be more responsible in the next period, to have greater control and in this way our people can behave more freely not to get into a situation like before when this law was passed, in 2011, when, as I said earlier, I had the proxies of the executioner, the spray of the directors who were corrupt, the directors who gave the perpetrators and their accounts that they were forced by those of our poor citizens to collect, and the relationship and charges was one to seven. So, I really think this law is much better than the previous 2011 law. I once again note as the People's MP of the United Peasants' Party elected from the SNS list, that I will vote in favour of this law and vote in favour of a set of all these judicial laws and of all the other laws proposed by the Government headed by our prime minister, because I think this is the only possibility that we can ensure a safe future for our children and children. Once again, thank you, Minister. Now I'd like to take the opportunity to invite you to come to Srlig and visit the courthouse together and discuss together some common steps that are important to you and to the judiciary and to the police, because we have a building that can be used for everyone tomorrow. The police in Srlig, in particular, have no quality, good building, and the court building can be used for both one institution and another. Thank you again and thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2015-12-15-0.u43147	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint, principled single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right to Article 96 want to do so. (No) According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint, principled, single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 10 of the agenda. Tomorrow's the 10.00 p.m. session. Thank you, Mr. Minister, to you and your cabinet members for participating in today's debate. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2015. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borisav Kovacevic, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Sinisa Maksimovic and Dr. Dijana Vukomanovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, together with co-workers from the cabinet of the Ministry. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on proposals for the agenda for items 11, 12 and 13, before the opening of the search, I would remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act and Proposal for a Law amending the Health Documentation and Records Act. Does the representative of the Proposer Dr Zlatibor Loncar, Minister of Health, want a word? Here you go. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
